The Tamil Bookshelf EBook of The 2001 CIA World Factbook, by 
United States.  Central Intelligence Agency.




Title: The 2001 CIA World Factbook

Author: United States.  Central Intelligence Agency.

Release Date: December 27, 2008 [EBook #27638]

Language: English

Character set encoding: ASCII

*** START OF THIS Tamil Bookshelf EBOOK THE 2001 CIA WORLD FACTBOOK ***




Produced by Al Haines






THE CIA WORLD FACTBOOK 2001




CONTENTS


Countries and Locations

Field Listings

Appendixes

Notes and Definitions

History of The World Factbook

Contributors and Copyright Information

Purchasing Information



=====================================================================


In general, information available as of 1 January 2001 was used in
the preparation of The World Factbook 2001.

Selected data and maps in The World Factbook are updated periodically.


=====================================================================



Country Listing


[Transcriber's note: To search on a country name in this file, prefix
the name with "@", e.g. "@Afghanistan".  "Afghanistan" will find all
occurrences; prefixing it with "@" will find the correct location.]


A

Afghanistan
Albania
Algeria
American Samoa
Andorra
Angola
Anguilla
Antarctica
Antigua and Barbuda
Arctic Ocean
Argentina
Armenia
Aruba
Ashmore and Cartier Islands
Atlantic Ocean
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan


B

Bahamas, The
Bahrain
Baker Island
Bangladesh
Barbados
Bassas da India
Belarus
Belgium
Belize
Benin
Bermuda
Bhutan
Bolivia
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Botswana
Bouvet Island
Brazil
British Indian Ocean Territory
British Virgin Islands
Brunei
Bulgaria
Burkina Faso
Burma
Burundi


C

Cambodia
Cameroon
Canada
Cape Verde
Cayman Islands
Central African Republic
Chad
Chile
China
Christmas Island
Clipperton Island
Cocos (Keeling) Islands
Colombia
Comoros
Congo, Democratic Republic of the
Congo, Republic of the
Cook Islands
Coral Sea Islands
Costa Rica
Cote d'Ivoire
Croatia
Cuba
Cyprus
Czech Republic


D

Denmark
Djibouti
Dominica
Dominican Republic


E

Ecuador
Egypt
El Salvador
Equatorial Guinea
Eritrea
Estonia
Ethiopia
Europa Island


F

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
Faroe Islands
Fiji
Finland
France
French Guiana
French Polynesia
French Southern and Antarctic Lands


G

Gabon
Gambia, The
Gaza Strip
Georgia
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Glorioso Islands
Greece
Greenland
Grenada
Guadeloupe
Guam
Guatemala
Guernsey
Guinea
Guinea-Bissau
Guyana


H

Haiti
Heard Island and McDonald Islands
Holy See (Vatican City)
Honduras
Hong Kong
Howland Island
Hungary


I

Iceland
India
Indian Ocean
Indonesia
Iran
Iraq
Ireland
Israel
Italy


J

Jamaica
Jan Mayen
Japan
Jarvis Island
Jersey
Johnston Atoll
Jordan
Juan de Nova Island


K

Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kingman Reef
Kiribati
Korea, North
Korea, South
Kuwait
Kyrgyzstan


L

Laos
Latvia
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Libya
Liechtenstein
Lithuania
Luxembourg


M

Macau
Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of
Madagascar
Malawi
Malaysia
Maldives
Mali
Malta
Man, Isle of
Marshall Islands
Martinique
Mauritania
Mauritius
Mayotte
Mexico
Micronesia, Federated States of
Midway Islands
Moldova
Monaco
Mongolia
Montserrat
Morocco
Mozambique


N

Namibia
Nauru
Navassa Island
Nepal
Netherlands
Netherlands Antilles
New Caledonia
New Zealand
Nicaragua
Niger
Nigeria
Niue
Norfolk Island
Northern Mariana Islands
Norway


O

Oman


P

Pacific Ocean
Pakistan
Palau
Palmyra Atoll
Panama
Papua New Guinea
Paracel Islands
Paraguay
Peru
Philippines
Pitcairn Islands
Poland
Portugal
Puerto Rico


Q

Qatar


R

Reunion
Romania
Russia
Rwanda


S

Saint Helena
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Pierre and Miquelon
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Samoa
San Marino
Sao Tome and Principe
Saudi Arabia
Senegal
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
Slovakia
Slovenia
Solomon Islands
Somalia
South Africa
South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands
Southern Ocean
Spain
Spratly Islands
Sri Lanka
Sudan
Suriname
Svalbard
Swaziland
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria


T

Taiwan entry follows Zimbabwe
Tajikistan
Tanzania
Thailand
Togo
Tokelau
Tonga
Trinidad and Tobago
Tromelin Island
Tunisia
Turkey
Turkmenistan
Turks and Caicos Islands
Tuvalu


U

Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom
United States
Uruguay
Uzbekistan


V

Vanuatu
Venezuela
Vietnam
Virgin Islands


W

Wake Island
Wallis and Futuna
West Bank
Western Sahara
World


Y

Yemen
Yugoslavia


Z

Zambia
Zimbabwe



Taiwan


=====================================================================


Field Listings



[Transcriber's note: To search on a field code in this file, prefix
the code number with "@", e.g. "@Airports".  "Airports" will find all
occurrences; prefixing it with "@" will find the correct location.]



Field Description

Administrative divisions
Age structure
Agriculture - products
Airports
Airports - with paved runways
Airports - with unpaved runways
Area
Area - comparative
Background
Birth rate
Budget
Capital
Climate
Coastline
Communications - note
Constitution
Country name
Currency
Currency code
Death rate
Debt - external
Dependency status
Dependent areas
Diplomatic representation from the US
Diplomatic representation in the US
Disputes - international
Economic aid - donor
Economic aid - recipient
Economy - overview
Electricity - consumption
Electricity - exports
Electricity - imports
Electricity - production
Electricity - production by source
Elevation extremes
Environment - current issues
Environment - international agreements
Ethnic groups
Exchange rates
Executive branch
Exports
Exports - commodities
Exports - partners
Fiscal year
Flag description
GDP
GDP - composition by sector
GDP - per capita
GDP - real growth rate
Geographic coordinates
Geography - note
Government - note
Government type
Heliports
Highways
HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate
HIV/AIDS - deaths
HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS
Household income or consumption by
Illicit drugs
Imports
Imports - commodities
Imports - partners
Independence
Industrial production growth rate
Industries
Infant mortality rate
Inflation rate (consumer prices)
International organization participation
Internet country code
Internet Service Providers (ISPs)
Internet users
Irrigated land
Judicial branch
Labor force
Labor force - by occupation
Land boundaries
Land use
Languages
Legal system
Legislative branch
Life expectancy at birth
Literacy
Location
Map references
Maritime claims
Merchant marine
Military - note
Military branches
Military expenditures - dollar figure
Military expenditures - percent of GDP
Military manpower - availability
Military manpower - fit for military
Military manpower - military age
Military manpower - reaching military
National holiday
Nationality
Natural hazards
Natural resources
Net migration rate
People - note
Pipelines
Political parties and leaders
Political pressure groups and leaders
Population
Population below poverty line
Population growth rate
Ports and harbors
Radio broadcast stations
Radios
Railways
Religions
Sex ratio
Suffrage
Telephone system
Telephones - main lines in use
Telephones - mobile cellular
Television broadcast stations
Televisions
Terrain
Total fertility rate
Transportation - note
Unemployment rate
Waterways



======================================================================



Appendixes


Appendix A - Abbreviations

Appendix B - International Organizations and Groups

Appendix C - Selected International Environmental Agreements

Appendix D - Cross-Reference List of Country Data Codes

Appendix E - Cross-Reference List of Hydrographic Data Codes

Appendix F - Cross-Reference List of Geographic Names



======================================================================



Notes and Definitions


In addition to the updating of information, the following changes have
been made in this edition of The World Factbook. The entity of Serbia
and Montenegro is now officially known as Yugoslavia.  There are new
entries on:  Currency code, HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate, HIV/AIDS
- deaths, HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS, Internet users, and
Internet country code.  The Background entry, which was introduced in
the 1999 edition, has now been completed for all 267 entities in the
Factbook.  The individual country maps are being revised.  Some new
maps with elevation extremes and a partial geographic grid are included
in this edition.


Abbreviations
This information is included in Appendix A: Abbreviations, which
includes all abbreviations and acronyms used in the Factbook, with
their expansions.

Acronyms
An acronym is an abbreviation coined from the initial letter of each
successive word in a term or phrase.  In general, an acronym made up
solely from the first letter of the major words in the expanded form is
rendered in all capital letters (NATO from North Atlantic Treaty
Organization; an exception would be ASEAN for Association of Southeast
Asian Nations).  In general, an acronym made up of more than the first
letter of the major words in the expanded form is rendered with only an
initial capital letter (Comsat from Communications Satellite
Corporation; an exception would be NAM from Nonaligned Movement).
Hybrid forms are sometimes used to distinguish between initially
identical terms (WTO:  WTrO for World Trade Organization and WToO for
World Tourism Organization.)

Administrative divisions
This entry generally gives the numbers, designatory terms, and first-
order administrative divisions as approved by the US Board on
Geographic Names (BGN). Changes that have been reported but not yet
acted on by BGN are noted.

Age structure
This entry provides the distribution of the population according to
age. Information is included by sex and age group (0-14 years, 15-64
years, 65 years and over). The age structure of a population affects a
nation's key socioeconomic issues. Countries with young populations
(high percentage under age 15) need to invest more in schools, while
countries with older populations (high percentage ages 65 and over)
need to invest more in the health sector. The age structure can also be
used to help predict potential political issues. For example, the rapid
growth of a young adult population unable to find employment can lead
to unrest.

Agriculture - products
This entry is a rank ordering of major crops and products starting with
the most important.

Airports
This entry gives the total number of airports. The runway(s) may be
paved (concrete or asphalt surfaces) or unpaved (grass, dirt, sand, or
gravel surfaces), but must be usable. Not all airports have facilities
for refueling, maintenance, or air traffic control.

Airports - with paved runways
This entry gives the total number of airports with paved runways
(concrete or asphalt surfaces). For airports with more than one runway,
only the longest runway is included according to the following five
groups - (1) over 3,047 m, (2) 2,438 to 3,047 m, (3) 1,524 to 2,437 m,
(4) 914 to 1,523 m, and (5) under 914 m. Only airports with usable
runways are included in this listing. Not all airports have facilities
for refueling, maintenance, or air traffic control.

Airports - with unpaved runways
This entry gives the total number of airports with unpaved runways
(grass, dirt, sand, or gravel surfaces). For airports with more than
one runway, only the longest runway is included according to the
following five groups - (1) over 3,047 m, (2) 2,438 to 3,047 m, (3)
1,524 to 2,437 m, (4) 914 to 1,523 m, and (5) under 914 m. Only
airports with usable runways are included in this listing. Not all
airports have facilities for refueling, maintenance, or air traffic
control

Appendixes
This section includes Factbook-related material by topic.

Area
This entry includes three subfields. Total area is the sum of all land
and water areas delimited by international boundaries and/or
coastlines. Land area is the aggregate of all surfaces delimited by
international boundaries and/or coastlines, excluding inland water
bodies (lakes, reservoirs, rivers). Water area is the sum of all water
surfaces delimited by international boundaries and/or coastlines,
including inland water bodies (lakes, reservoirs, rivers).

Area - comparative
This entry provides an area comparison based on total area equivalents.
Most entities are compared with the entire US or one of the 50 states
based on area measurements (1990 revised) provided by the US Bureau of
the Census. The smaller entities are compared with Washington, DC (178
sq km, 69 sq mi) or The Mall in Washington, DC (0.59 sq km, 0.23 sq mi,
146 acres).

Background
This entry usually highlights major historic events and current issues
and may include a statement about one or two key future trends.

Birth rate
This entry gives the average annual number of births during a year per
1,000 persons in the population at midyear; also known as crude birth
rate. The birth rate is usually the dominant factor in determining the
rate of population growth. It depends on both the level of fertility
and the age structure of the population.

Budget
This entry includes revenues, total expenditures, and capital
expenditures.  These figures are calculated on an exchange rate basis,
i.e., not in purchasing power parity (PPP) terms

Capital
This entry gives the location of the seat of government.

Climate
This entry includes a brief description of typical weather regimes
throughout the year.

Coastline
This entry gives the total length of the boundary between the land area
(including islands) and the sea.

Communications
This category deals with the means of exchanging information and
includes the telephone, radio, television, and Internet service
provider entries.

Communications - note
This entry includes miscellaneous communications information of
significance not included elsewhere.

Constitution
This entry includes the dates of adoption, revisions, and major
amendments.

Country data codes
see Data codes

Country map
Most versions of the Factbook provide a country map in color. The maps
were produced from the best information available at the time of
preparation. Names and/or boundaries may have changed subsequently.

Country name
This entry includes all forms of the country's name approved by the US
Board on Geographic Names (Italy is used as an example): conventional
long form (Italian Republic), conventional short form (Italy), local
long form (Repubblica Italiana), local short form (Italia), former
(Kingdom of Italy), as well as the abbreviation. Also see the
Terminology note.

Currency
This entry identifies the national medium of exchange and its basic
subunit.

Currency code
This entry gives the International Organization for Standardization
(ISO) 4217 alphabetic currency code for each country.

Data codes
This information is presented in Appendix D:  Cross-Reference List of
Country Data Codes and Appendix E:  Cross-Reference List of
Hydrographic Data Codes.  This appendix includes the US Government
approved Federal Information Processing Standards (FIPS) codes, the
International Organization for Standardization (ISO) codes, and
Internet codes for land entities.  The appendix also includes the
International Hydrographic Organization (IHO) codes, Aeronautical Chart
and Information Center (ACIC; now a part of the National Imagery and
Mapping Agency or NIMA) codes, and Defense Intelligence Agency (DIA)
codes for hydrographic entities. The US Government has not yet approved
a standard for hydrographic data codes similar to the FIPS 10-4
standard for country data codes.

Date of information
In general, information available as of 1 January 2001, was used in the
preparation of this edition.

Death rate
This entry gives the average annual number of deaths during a year per
1,000 population at midyear; also known as crude death rate. The death
rate, while only a rough indicator of the mortality situation in a
country, accurately indicates the current mortality impact on
population growth. This indicator is significantly affected by age
distribution, and most countries will eventually show a rise in the
overall death rate, in spite of continued decline in mortality at all
ages, as declining fertility results in an aging population.

Debt - external
This entry gives the total amount of public foreign financial
obligations.

Dependency status
This entry describes the formal relationship between a particular
nonindependent entity and an independent state.

Dependent areas
This entry contains an alphabetical listing of all nonindependent
entities associated in some way with a particular independent state.

Diplomatic representation
The US Government has diplomatic relations with 185 independent states,
including 183 of the 189 UN members (excluded UN members are Bhutan,
Cuba, Iran, Iraq, North Korea, and the US itself). In addition, the US
has diplomatic relations with 2 independent states that are not in the
UN - Holy See and Switzerland.

Diplomatic representation from the US
This entry includes the chief of mission, embassy address, mailing
address, telephone number, FAX number, branch office locations,
consulate general locations, and consulate locations.

Disputes - international
This entry includes a wide variety of situations that range from
traditional bilateral boundary disputes to unilateral claims of one
sort or another. Information regarding disputes over international
terrestrial and maritime boundaries has been reviewed by the US
Department of State. References to other situations involving borders
or frontiers may also be included, such as resource disputes,
geopolitical questions, or irredentist issues; however, inclusion does
not necessarily constitute official acceptance or recognition by the US
Government.

Economic aid - donor
This entry refers to net official development assistance (ODA) from
OECD nations to developing countries and multilateral organizations.
ODA is defined as financial assistance that is concessional in
character, has the main objective to promote economic development and
welfare of the less developed countries (LDCs), and contains a grant
element of at least 25%. The entry does not cover other official flows
(OOF) or private flows.

Economic aid - recipient
This entry, which is subject to major problems of definition and
statistical coverage, refers to the net inflow of Official Development
Finance (ODF) to recipient countries. The figure includes assistance
from the World Bank, the IMF, and other international organizations and
from individual nation donors. Formal commitments of aid are included
in the data. Omitted from the data are grants by private organizations.
Aid comes in various forms including outright grants and loans. The
entry thus is the difference between new inflows and repayments.

Economy
This category includes the entries dealing with the size, development,
and management of productive resources, i.e., land, labor, and capital.

Economy - overview
This entry briefly describes the type of economy, including the degree
of market orientation, the level of economic development, the most
important natural resources, and the unique areas of specialization. It
also characterizes major economic events and policy changes in the most
recent 12 months and may include a statement about one or two key
future macroeconomic trends.

Electricity - consumption
This entry consists of total electricity generated annually plus
imports and minus exports, expressed in kilowatt-hours. The discrepancy
between the amount of electricity generated and/or imported and the
amount consumed and/or exported is accounted for as loss in
transmission and distribution.

Electricity - exports
This entry is the total exported electricity in kilowatt-hours.

Electricity - imports
This entry is the total imported electricity in kilowatt-hours.

Electricity - production
This entry is the annual electricity generated expressed in kilowatt-
hours. The discrepancy between the amount of electricity generated
and/or imported and the amount consumed and/or exported is accounted
for as loss in transmission and distribution.

Electricity - production by source
This entry indicates the percentage share of annual electricity
production of each energy source. These are fossil fuel, hydro,
nuclear, and other (solar, geothermal, and wind).

Elevation extremes
This entry includes both the highest point and the lowest point.

Entities
Some of the independent states, dependencies, areas of special
sovereignty, and governments included in this publication are not
independent, and others are not officially recognized by the US
Government. "Independent state" refers to a people politically
organized into a sovereign state with a definite territory.
"Dependencies" and "areas of special sovereignty" refer to a broad
category of political entities that are associated in some way with an
independent state. "Country" names used in the table of contents or for
page headings are usually the short-form names as approved by the US
Board on Geographic Names and may include independent states,
dependencies, and areas of special sovereignty, or other geographic
entities. There are a total of 267 separate geographic entities in The
World Factbook that may be categorized as follows:

INDEPENDENT STATES

   191 Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Andorra, Angola, Antigua and
Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, The
Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belgium, Belize,
Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil,
Brunei, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burma, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon,
Canada, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, China,
Colombia, Comoros, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Republic of the
Congo, Costa Rica, Cote d'Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech
Republic, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador,
Egypt, El Salvador, Equatorial Guinea, Eritrea, Estonia, Ethiopia,
Fiji, Finland, France, Gabon, The Gambia, Georgia, Germany, Ghana,
Greece, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Holy
See, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Ireland,
Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kiribati,
North Korea, South Korea, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Laos, Latvia, Lebanon,
Lesotho, Liberia, Libya, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, The
Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia,  Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia,
Maldives, Mali, Malta, Marshall Islands, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico,
Federated States of Micronesia, Moldova, Monaco, Mongolia, Morocco,
Mozambique, Namibia, Nauru, Nepal, Netherlands, NZ, Nicaragua, Niger,
Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Palau, Panama, Papua New Guinea,
Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Russia,
Rwanda, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the
Grenadines, Samoa, San Marino, Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia,
Senegal, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia,
Solomon Islands, Somalia, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan,
Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Switzerland, Syria, Tajikistan, Tanzania,
Thailand, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey,
Turkmenistan, Tuvalu, Uganda, Ukraine, UAE, UK, US, Uruguay,
Uzbekistan, Vanuatu, Venezuela, Vietnam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zambia,
Zimbabwe

OTHER

     1 Taiwan

DEPENDENCIES AND AREAS OF SPECIAL SOVEREIGNTY
     6 Australia - Ashmore and Cartier Islands, Christmas Island, Cocos
(Keeling) Islands, Coral Sea Islands, Heard Island and McDonald
Islands, Norfolk Island
     2 China - Hong Kong, Macau
     2 Denmark - Faroe Islands, Greenland
    16 France - Bassas da India, Clipperton Island, Europa Island,
French Guiana, French Polynesia, French Southern and Antarctic Lands,
Glorioso Islands, Guadeloupe, Juan de Nova Island, Martinique, Mayotte,
New Caledonia, Reunion, Saint Pierre and Miquelon, Tromelin Island,
Wallis and Futuna
     2 Netherlands - Aruba, Netherlands Antilles
     3 New Zealand - Cook Islands, Niue, Tokelau
     3 Norway - Bouvet Island, Jan Mayen, Svalbard
    15 UK - Anguilla, Bermuda, British Indian Ocean Territory, British
Virgin Islands, Cayman Islands, Falkland Islands, Gibraltar, Guernsey,
Jersey, Isle of Man, Montserrat, Pitcairn Islands, Saint Helena, South
Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands, Turks and Caicos Islands
    14 US - American Samoa, Baker Island, Guam, Howland Island, Jarvis
Island, Johnston Atoll, Kingman Reef, Midway Islands, Navassa Island,
Northern Mariana Islands, Palmyra Atoll, Puerto Rico, Virgin Islands,
Wake Island

MISCELLANEOUS
     6 Antarctica, Gaza Strip, Paracel Islands, Spratly Islands, West
Bank, Western Sahara

OTHER ENTITIES
     5 oceans - Arctic Ocean, Atlantic Ocean, Indian Ocean, Pacific
Ocean, Southern Ocean
     1 World
   267 total

Environment - current issues
This entry lists the most pressing and important environmental
problems.  The following terms and abbreviations are used throughout
the entry:

     acidification - the lowering of soil and water pH due to acid
precipitation and deposition usually through precipitation; this
process disrupts ecosystem nutrient flows and may kill freshwater fish
and plants dependent on more neutral or alkaline conditions (see acid
rain).

     acid rain - characterized as containing harmful levels of sulfur
dioxide or nitrogen oxide; acid rain is damaging and potentially deadly
to the earth's fragile ecosystems; acidity is measured using the pH
scale where 7 is neutral, values greater than 7 are considered
alkaline, and values below 5.6 are considered acid precipitation; note
- a pH of 2.4 (the acidity of vinegar) has been measured in rainfall in
New England.

     aerosol - a collection of airborne particles dispersed in a gas,
smoke, or fog.

     afforestation - converting a bare or agricultural space by
planting trees and plants; reforestation involves replanting trees on
areas that have been cut or destroyed by fire.

     asbestos - a naturally occurring soft fibrous mineral commonly
used in fireproofing materials and considered to be highly carcinogenic
in particulate form.

     biodiversity - also biological diversity; the relative number of
species, diverse in form and function, at the genetic, organism,
community, and ecosystem level; loss of biodiversity reduces an
ecosystem's ability to recover from natural or man-induced disruption.

     bio-indicators - a plant or animal species whose presence,
abundance, and health reveal the general condition of its habitat.

     biomass - the total weight or volume of living matter in a given
area or volume.

     carbon cycle - the term used to describe the exchange of carbon
(in various forms, e.g., as carbon dioxide) between the atmosphere,
ocean, terrestrial biosphere, and geological deposits.

     catchments - assemblages used to capture and retain rainwater and
runoff; an important water management technique in areas with limited
freshwater resources, such as Gibraltar.

     DDT (dichloro-diphenyl-trichloro-ethane) - a colorless, odorless
insecticide that has toxic effects on most animals; the use of DDT was
banned in the US in 1972.

     defoliants - chemicals which cause plants to lose their leaves
artificially; often used in agricultural practices for weed control,
and may have detrimental impacts on human and ecosystem health.

     deforestation - the destruction of vast areas of forest (e.g.,
unsustainable forestry practices, agricultural and range land clearing,
and the over exploitation of wood products for use as fuel) without
planting new growth.

     desertification - the spread of desert-like conditions in arid or
semi-arid areas, due to overgrazing, loss of agriculturally productive
soils, or climate change.

     dredging - the practice of deepening an existing waterway; also, a
technique used for collecting bottom-dwelling marine organisms (e.g.,
shellfish) or harvesting coral, often causing significant destruction
of reef and ocean-floor ecosystems.

     drift-net fishing - done with a net, miles in extent, that is
generally anchored to a boat and left to float with the tide; often
results in an over harvesting and waste of large populations of non-
commercial marine species (by-catch) by its effect of "sweeping the
ocean clean".

     ecosystems - ecological units comprised of complex communities of
organisms and their specific environments.

     effluents - waste materials, such as smoke, sewage, or industrial
waste which are released into the environment, subsequently polluting
it.

     endangered species - a species that is threatened with extinction
either by direct hunting or habitat destruction.

     freshwater - water with very low soluble mineral content; sources
include lakes, streams, rivers, glaciers, and underground aquifers.

     greenhouse gas - a gas that "traps" infrared radiation in the
lower atmosphere causing surface warming; water vapor, carbon dioxide,
nitrous oxide, methane, hydrofluorocarbons, and ozone are the primary
greenhouse gases in the Earth's atmosphere.

     groundwater - water sources found below the surface of the earth
often in naturally occurring reservoirs in permeable rock strata; the
source for wells and natural springs.

     Highlands Water Project - a series of dams constructed jointly by
Lesotho and South Africa to redirect Lesotho's abundant water supply
into a rapidly growing area in South Africa; while it is the largest
infrastructure project in southern Africa, it is also the most costly
and controversial; objections to the project include claims that it
forces people from their homes, submerges farmlands, and squanders
economic resources.

     Inuit Circumpolar Conference (ICC) - represents the 125,000 Inuits
of Russia, Alaska, Canada, and Greenland in international environmental
issues; a panel convenes every three years to determine the focus of
the ICC; the most current concerns are long-range transport of
pollutants, sustainable development, and climate change.

     metallurgical plants - industries which specialize in the science,
technology, and processing of metals; these plants produce highly
concentrated and toxic wastes which can contribute to pollution of
ground water and air when not properly disposed.

     noxious substances - injurious, very harmful to living beings.

     overgrazing - the grazing of animals on plant material faster than
it can naturally regrow leading to the permanent loss of plant cover, a
common effect of too many animals grazing limited range land.

     ozone shield - a layer of the atmosphere composed of ozone gas (O3)
that resides approximately 25 miles above the Earth's surface and
absorbs solar ultraviolet radiation that can be harmful to living
organisms.

     poaching - the illegal killing of animals or fish, a great concern
with respect to endangered or threatened species.

     pollution - the contamination of a healthy environment by man-made
waste.

     potable water - water that is drinkable, safe to be consumed.

     salination - the process through which fresh (drinkable) water
becomes salt (undrinkable) water; hence, desalination is the reverse
process; also involves the accumulation of salts in topsoil caused by
evaporation of excessive irrigation water, a process that can
eventually render soil incapable of supporting crops.

     siltation - occurs when water channels and reservoirs become
clotted with silt and mud, a side effect of deforestation and soil
erosion.

     slash-and-burn agriculture - a rotating cultivation technique in
which trees are cut down and burned in order to clear land for
temporary agriculture; the land is used until its productivity declines
at which point a new plot is selected and the process repeats; this
practice is sustainable while population levels are low and time is
permitted for regrowth of natural vegetation; conversely, where these
conditions do not exist, the practice can have disastrous consequences
for the environment .

     soil degradation - damage to the land's productive capacity
because of poor agricultural practices such as the excessive use of
pesticides or fertilizers, soil compaction from heavy equipment, or
erosion of topsoil, eventually resulting in reduced ability to produce
agricultural products.

     soil erosion - the removal of soil by the action of water or wind,
compounded by poor agricultural practices, deforestation, overgrazing,
and desertification.

     ultraviolet (UV) radiation - a portion of the electromagnetic
energy emitted by the sun and naturally filtered in the upper
atmosphere by the ozone layer; UV radiation can be harmful to living
organisms and has been linked to increasing rates of skin cancer in
humans.

     water-born diseases - those in which the bacteria survive in, and
is transmitted through, water; always a serious threat in areas with an
untreated water supply.

Environment - international agreements
This entry separates country participation in international
environmental agreements into two levels - party to and signed but not
ratified. Agreements are listed in alphabetical order by the
abbreviated form of the full name.

Environmental agreements
This information is presented in Appendix C: Selected International
Environmental Agreements, which includes the name, abbreviation, date
opened for signature, date entered into force, objective, and parties
by category.

Ethnic groups
This entry provides a rank ordering of ethnic groups starting with the
largest and normally includes the percent of total population.

Exchange rates
This entry provides the official value of a country's monetary unit at
a given date or over a given period of time, as expressed in units of
local currency per US dollar and as determined by international market
forces or official fiat.

Executive branch
This entry includes several subfields. Chief of state includes the name
and title of the titular leader of the country who represents the state
at official and ceremonial functions but may not be involved with the
day-to-day activities of the government. Head of government includes
the name and title of the top administrative leader who is designated
to manage the day-to-day activities of the government. For example, in
the UK, the monarch is the chief of state, and the prime minister is
the head of government. In the US, the president is both the chief of
state and the head of government. Cabinet includes the official name
for this body of high-ranking advisers and the method for selection of
members. Elections includes the nature of election process or accession
to power, date of the last election, and date of the next election.
Election results includes the percent of vote for each candidate in the
last election.

Exports
This entry provides the total US dollar amount of exports on an f.o.b.
(free on board) basis.

Exports - commodities
This entry provides a rank ordering of exported products starting with
the most important; it sometimes includes the percent of total dollar
value.

Exports - partners
This entry provides a rank ordering of trading partners starting with
the most important; it sometimes includes the percent of total dollar
value.

Fiscal year
This entry identifies the beginning and ending months for a country's
accounting period of 12 months, which often is the calendar year but
which may begin in any month. All yearly references are for the
calendar year (CY) unless indicated as a noncalendar fiscal year (FY).

Flag description
This entry provides a written flag description produced from actual
flags or the best information available at the time the entry was
written. The flags of independent states are used by their dependencies
unless there is an officially recognized local flag. Some disputed and
other areas do not have flags.

Flag graphic
Most versions of the Factbook include a color flag at the beginning of
the country profile. The flag graphics were produced from actual flags
or the best information available at the time of preparation. The flags
of independent states are used by their dependencies unless there is an
officially recognized local flag. Some disputed and other areas do not
have flags.

GDP
This entry gives the gross domestic product (GDP) or value of all final
goods and services produced within a nation in a given year. GDP dollar
estimates in the Factbook are derived from purchasing power parity
(PPP) calculations. See the note on GDP methodology for more
information.

GDP methodology
In the Economy section, GDP dollar estimates for all countries are
derived from purchasing power parity (PPP) calculations rather than
from conversions at official currency exchange rates. The PPP method
involves the use of standardized international dollar price weights,
which are applied to the quantities of final goods and services
produced in a given economy.  The data derived from the PPP method
provide the best available starting point for comparisons of economic
strength and well-being between countries.  The division of a GDP
estimate in domestic currency by the corresponding PPP estimate in
dollars gives the PPP conversion rate.  Whereas PPP estimates for OECD
countries are quite reliable, PPP estimates for developing countries
are often rough approximations.  Most of the GDP estimates are based on
extrapolation of PPP numbers published by the UN International
Comparison Program (UNICP) and by Professors Robert Summers and Alan
Heston of the University of Pennsylvania and their colleagues. In
contrast, the currency exchange rate method involves a variety of
international and domestic financial forces that often have little
relation to domestic output. In developing countries with weak
currencies the exchange rate estimate of GDP in dollars is typically
one-fourth to one-half the PPP estimate. Furthermore, exchange rates
may suddenly go up or down by 10% or more because of market forces or
official fiat whereas real output has remained unchanged. On 12 January
1994, for example, the 14 countries of the African Financial Community
(whose currencies are tied to the French franc) devalued their
currencies by 50%. This move, of course, did not cut the real output of
these countries by half. One important caution:  the proportion of,
say, defense expenditures as a percentage of GDP in local currency
accounts may differ substantially from the proportion when GDP accounts
are expressed in PPP terms, as, for example, when an observer tries to
estimate the dollar level of Russian or Japanese military expenditures.
Note: the numbers for GDP and other economic data can not be chained
together from successive volumes of the Factbook because of changes in
the US dollar measuring rod, revisions of data by statistical agencies,
use of new or different sources of information, and changes in national
statistical methods and practices.

GDP - composition by sector
This entry gives the percentage contribution of agriculture, industry,
and services to total GDP.

GDP - per capita
This entry shows GDP on a purchasing power parity basis divided by
population as of 1 July for the same year.

GDP - real growth rate
This entry gives GDP growth on an annual basis adjusted for inflation
and expressed as a percent.

Geographic coordinates
This entry includes rounded latitude and longitude figures for the
purpose of finding the approximate geographic center of an entity and
is based on the Gazetteer of Conventional Names, Third Edition, August
1988, US Board on Geographic Names and on other sources.

Geographic names
This information is presented in Appendix F: Cross-Reference List of
Geographic Names.  It includes a listing of various alternate names,
former names, local names, and regional names referenced to one or more
related Factbook entries. Spellings are normally, but not always, those
approved by the US Board on Geographic Names (BGN). Alternate names and
additional information are included in parentheses.

Geography
This category includes the entries dealing with the natural environment
and the effects of human activity.

Geography - note
This entry includes miscellaneous geographic information of
significance not included elsewhere.

GNP
Gross national product (GNP) is the value of all final goods and
services produced within a nation in a given year, plus income earned
by its citizens abroad, minus income earned by foreigners from domestic
production. The Factbook, following current practice, uses GDP rather
than GNP to measure national production. However, the user must realize
that in certain countries net remittances from citizens working abroad
may be important to national well-being.

Government
This category includes the entries dealing with the system for the
adoption and administration of public policy.

Government type
This entry gives the basic form of government (e.g., republic,
constitutional monarchy, federal republic, parliamentary democracy,
military dictatorship).

Government - note
This entry includes miscellaneous government information of
significance not included elsewhere.

Gross domestic product
see GDP

Gross national product
see GNP

Gross world product
see GWP

GWP
This entry gives the gross world product (GWP) or aggregate value of
all final goods and services produced worldwide in a given year.

Heliports
This entry gives the total number of established helicopter takeoff and
landing sites (which may or may not have fuel or other services).

Highways
This entry includes the total length of the highway system as well as
the length of the paved and unpaved components.

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate
This entry gives an estimate of the percentage of adults (aged 15-49)
living with HIV/AIDS. The adult prevalence rate is calculated by
dividing the estimated number of adults living with HIV/AIDS at yearend
by the total adult population at yearend.

HIV/AIDS - deaths
This entry gives an estimate of the number of adults and children who
died of AIDS during a given calendar year.

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS
This entry gives an estimate of all people (adults and children) alive
at yearend with HIV infection, whether or not they have developed
symptoms of AIDS.

Household income or consumption by percentage share
Data on household income or consumption come from household surveys,
the results adjusted for household size. Nations use different
standards and procedures in collecting and adjusting the data. Surveys
based on income will normally show a more unequal distribution than
surveys based on consumption. The quality of surveys is improving with
time, yet caution is still necessary in making inter-country
comparisons.

Hydrographic data codes
see Data codes

Illicit drugs
This entry gives information on the five categories of illicit drugs -
narcotics, stimulants, depressants (sedatives), hallucinogens, and
cannabis. These categories include many drugs legally produced and
prescribed by doctors as well as those illegally produced and sold
outside of medical channels.

     Cannabis (Cannabis sativa) is the common hemp plant, which
provides hallucinogens with some sedative properties, and includes
marijuana (pot, Acapulco gold, grass, reefer), tetrahydrocannabinol
(THC, Marinol), hashish (hash), and hashish oil (hash oil).

     Coca (mostly Erythroxylum coca) is a bush with leaves that contain
the stimulant used to make cocaine. Coca is not to be confused with
cocoa, which comes from cacao seeds and is used in making chocolate,
cocoa, and cocoa butter.

     Cocaine is a stimulant derived from the leaves of the coca bush.

     Depressants (sedatives) are drugs that reduce tension and anxiety
and include chloral hydrate, barbiturates (Amytal, Nembutal, Seconal,
phenobarbital), benzodiazepines (Librium, Valium), methaqualone
(Quaalude), glutethimide (Doriden), and others (Equanil, Placidyl,
Valmid).

     Drugs are any chemical substances that effect a physical, mental,
emotional, or behavioral change in an individual.

     Drug abuse is the use of any licit or illicit chemical substance
that results in physical, mental, emotional, or behavioral impairment
in an individual.

     Hallucinogens are drugs that affect sensation, thinking, self-
awareness, and emotion. Hallucinogens include LSD (acid, microdot),
mescaline and peyote (mexc, buttons, cactus), amphetamine variants
(PMA, STP, DOB), phencyclidine (PCP, angel dust, hog), phencyclidine
analogues (PCE, PCPy, TCP), and others (psilocybin, psilocyn).

     Hashish is the resinous exudate of the cannabis or hemp plant
(Cannabis sativa).

     Heroin is a semisynthetic derivative of morphine.

     Mandrax is a trade name for methaqualone, a pharmaceutical
depressant.

     Marijuana is the dried leaf of the cannabis or hemp plant
(Cannabis sativa).

     Methaqualone is a pharmaceutical depressant, referred to as
mandrax in Southwest Asia and Africa.

     Narcotics are drugs that relieve pain, often induce sleep, and
refer to opium, opium derivatives, and synthetic substitutes. Natural
narcotics include opium (paregoric, parepectolin), morphine (MS-Contin,
Roxanol), codeine (Tylenol with codeine, Empirin with codeine,
Robitussan AC), and thebaine. Semisynthetic narcotics include heroin
(horse, smack), and hydromorphone (Dilaudid). Synthetic narcotics
include meperidine or Pethidine (Demerol, Mepergan), methadone
(Dolophine, Methadose), and others (Darvon, Lomotil).

     Opium is the brown, gummy exudate of the incised, unripe seedpod
of the opium poppy.

     Opium poppy (Papaver somniferum) is the source for the natural and
semisynthetic narcotics.

     Poppy straw concentrate is the alkaloid derived from the mature,
dried opium poppy.

     Qat (kat, khat) is a stimulant from the buds or leaves of Catha
edulis that is chewed or drunk as tea.

     Quaaludes is the North American slang term for methaqualone, a
pharmaceutical depressant.

     Stimulants are drugs that relieve mild depression, increase energy
and activity, and include cocaine (coke, snow, crack), amphetamines
(Desoxyn, Dexedrine), ephedrine, ecstasy (clarity, essence, doctor,
Adam), phenmetrazine (Preludin), methylphenidate (Ritalin), and others
(Cylert, Sanorex, Tenuate).

Imports
This entry provides the total US dollar amount of imports on a c.i.f.
(cost, insurance, and freight) or f.o.b. (free on board) basis.

Imports - commodities
This entry provides a rank ordering of imported products starting with
the most important; it sometimes includes the percent of total dollar
value.

Imports - partners
This entry provides a rank ordering of trading partners starting with
the most important; it sometimes includes the percent of total dollar
value.

Independence
For most countries, this entry gives the date that sovereignty was
achieved and from which nation, empire, or trusteeship. For the other
countries, the date given may not represent "independence" in the
strict sense, but rather some significant nationhood event such as the
traditional founding date or the date of unification, federation,
confederation, establishment, fundamental change in the form of
government, or state succession. Dependent areas include the notation
"none" followed by the nature of their dependency status. Also see the
Terminology note.

Industrial production growth rate
This entry gives the annual percentage increase in industrial
production (includes manufacturing, mining, and construction).

Industries
This entry provides a rank ordering of industries starting with the
largest by value of annual output.

Infant mortality rate
This entry gives the number of deaths of infants under one year old in
a given year per 1,000 live births in the same year. This rate is often
used as an indicator of the level of health in a country.

Inflation rate (consumer prices)
This entry furnishes the annual percent change in consumer prices
compared with the previous year's consumer prices.

Internet country code
This entry includes the two-letter codes maintained by the
International Organization for Standardization (ISO) in the ISO 3166
Alpha-2 list and used by the Internet Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA)
to establish country-coded top-level domains (ccTLDs).

Internet Service Providers (ISPs)
This entry supplies the number of Internet Service Providers within a
country. An ISP is defined as a company that provides access to the
Internet.

Internet users
This entry gives the number of users within a country that access the
Internet.  Statistics vary from country to country and may include
users who access the Internet at least several times a week to those
who access it only once within a period of several months.

International disputes
see Disputes - international

International organization participation
This entry lists in alphabetical order by abbreviation those
international organizations in which the subject country is a member or
participates in some other way.

International organizations
This information is presented in Appendix B: International
Organizations and Groups which includes the name, abbreviation, date
established, aim, and members by category.

Introduction
This category includes one entry, Background.

Irrigated land
This entry gives the number of square kilometers of land area that is
artificially supplied with water.

Judicial branch
This entry contains the name(s) of the highest court(s) and a brief
description of the selection process for members.

Labor force
This entry contains the total labor force figure.

Labor force - by occupation
This entry contains a rank ordering of component parts of the labor
force by occupation.

Land boundaries
This entry contains the total length of all land boundaries and the
individual lengths for each of the contiguous border countries.

Land use
This entry contains the percentage shares of total land area for five
different types of land use: arable land - land cultivated for crops
that are replanted after each harvest like wheat, maize, and rice;
permanent crops - land cultivated for crops that are not replanted
after each harvest like citrus, coffee, and rubber; permanent pastures
- land permanently used for herbaceous forage crops; forests and
woodland - land under dense or open stands of trees; other - any land
type not specifically mentioned above, such as urban areas, roads,
desert, etc.

Languages
This entry provides a rank ordering of languages starting with the
largest and sometimes includes the percent of total population speaking
that language.

Legal system
This entry contains a brief description of the legal system's
historical roots, role in government, and acceptance of International
Court of Justice (ICJ) jurisdiction.

Legislative branch
This entry contains information on the structure (unicameral,
bicameral, tricameral), formal name, number of seats, and term of
office. Elections includes the nature of election process or accession
to power, date of the last election, and date of the next election.
Election results includes the percent of vote and/or number of seats
held by each party in the last election.

Life expectancy at birth
This entry contains the average number of years to be lived by a group
of people born in the same year, if mortality at each age remains
constant in the future. The entry includes total population as well as
the male and female components. Life expectancy at birth is also a
measure of overall quality of life in a country and summarizes the
mortality at all ages. It can also be thought of as indicating the
potential return on investment in human capital and is necessary for
the calculation of various actuarial measures.

Literacy
This entry includes a definition of literacy and Census Bureau
percentages for the total population, males, and females. There are no
universal definitions and standards of literacy. Unless otherwise
specified, all rates are based on the most common definition - the
ability to read and write at a specified age. Detailing the standards
that individual countries use to assess the ability to read and write
is beyond the scope of the Factbook. Information on literacy, while not
a perfect measure of educational results, is probably the most easily
available and valid for international comparisons. Low levels of
literacy, and education in general, can impede the economic development
of a country in the current rapidly changing, technology-driven world.

Location
This entry identifies the country's regional location, neighboring
countries, and adjacent bodies of water.

Map references
This entry includes the name of the Factbook reference map on which a
country may be found. The entry on Geographic coordinates may be
helpful in finding some smaller countries.

Maritime claims
This entry includes the following claims: contiguous zone, continental
shelf, exclusive economic zone, exclusive fishing zone, extended
fishing zone, none (usually for a landlocked country), other (unique
maritime claims like Libya's Gulf of Sidra Closing Line or North
Korea's Military Boundary Line), and territorial sea. The proximity of
neighboring states may prevent some national claims from being extended
the full distance.

Merchant marine
Merchant marine may be defined as all ships engaged in the carriage of
goods; or all commercial vessels (as opposed to all nonmilitary ships),
which excludes tugs, fishing vessels, offshore oil rigs, etc.; or a
grouping of merchant ships by nationality or register. This entry
contains information in two subfields - total and ships by type. Total
includes the total number of ships (1,000 GRT or over), total DWT for
those ships, and total GRT for those ships. DWT or dead weight tonnage
is the total weight of cargo, plus bunkers, stores, etc. that a ship
can carry when immersed to the appropriate load line. GRT or gross
register tonnage is a figure obtained by measuring the entire sheltered
volume of the ship available for cargo and passengers and converting it
to tons on the basis of 100 cubic feet per ton; there is no stable
relationship between GRT and DWT. Ships by type includes a listing of
barge carriers, bulk cargo ships, cargo ships, chemical tankers,
combination bulk carriers, combination ore/oil carriers, container
ships, liquefied gas tankers, livestock carriers, multifunctional
large-load carriers, petroleum tankers, passenger ships,
passenger/cargo ships, railcar carriers, refrigerated cargo ships,
roll-on/roll-off cargo ships, short-sea passenger ships, specialized
tankers, and vehicle carriers.

      A captive register is a register of ships maintained by a
territory, possession, or colony primarily or exclusively for the use
of ships owned in the parent country; it is also referred to as an
offshore register, the offshore equivalent of an internal register.
Ships on a captive register will fly the same flag as the parent
country, or a local variant of it, but will be subject to the maritime
laws and taxation rules of the offshore territory. Although the nature
of a captive register makes it especially desirable for ships owned in
the parent country, just as in the internal register, the ships may
also be owned abroad. The captive register then acts as a flag of
convenience register, except that it is not the register of an
independent state.

     A flag of convenience register is a national register offering
registration to a merchant ship not owned in the flag state. The major
flags of convenience (FOC) attract ships to their registers by virtue
of low fees, low or nonexistent taxation of profits, and liberal
manning requirements. True FOC registers are characterized by having
relatively few of the registered ships actually owned in the flag
state. Thus, while virtually any flag can be used for ships under a
given set of circumstances, an FOC register is one where the majority
of the merchant fleet is owned abroad. It is also referred to as an
open register.

     A flag state is the nation in which a ship is registered and which
holds legal jurisdiction over operation of the ship, whether at home or
abroad. Maritime legislation of the flag state determines how a ship is
crewed and taxed and whether a foreign-owned ship may be placed on the
register.

     An internal register is a register of ships maintained as a subset
of a national register. Ships on the internal register fly the national
flag and have that nationality but are subject to a separate set of
maritime rules from those on the main national register. These
differences usually include lower taxation of profits, use of foreign
nationals as crewmembers, and, usually, ownership outside the flag
state (when it functions as an FOC register). The Norwegian
International Ship Register and Danish International Ship Register are
the most notable examples of an internal register. Both have been
instrumental in stemming flight from the national flag to flags of
convenience and in attracting foreign-owned ships to the Norwegian and
Danish flags.

     A merchant ship is a vessel that carries goods against payment of
freight; it is commonly used to denote any nonmilitary ship but
accurately restricted to commercial vessels only.

     A register is the record of a ship's ownership and nationality as
listed with the maritime authorities of a country; also, it is the
compendium of such individual ships' registrations. Registration of a
ship provides it with a nationality and makes it subject to the laws of
the country in which registered (the flag state) regardless of the
nationality of the ship's ultimate owner.

Military
This category includes the entries dealing with a country's military
structure, manpower, and expenditures.

Military branches
This entry lists the names of the ground, naval, air, marine, and other
defense or security forces.

Military expenditures - dollar figure
This entry gives current military expenditures in US dollars; the
figure is calculated by multiplying the estimated defense spending in
percentage terms by the gross domestic product (GDP) calculated on an
exchange rate basis not purchasing power parity (PPP) terms. However,
in the case of Russia, estimates of military expenditures have been
made using PPP. Dollar figures for military expenditures should be
treated with caution because of different price patterns and accounting
methods among nations, as well as wide variations in the strength of
their currencies.

Military expenditures - percent of GDP
This entry gives current military expenditures as an estimated percent
of gross domestic product (GDP).

Military manpower - availability
This entry gives the total numbers of males and females age 15-49 and
assumes that every individual is fit to serve.

Military manpower - fit for military service
This entry gives the number of males and females age 15-49 fit for
military service. This is a more refined measure of potential military
manpower availability which tries to correct for the health situation
in the country and reduces the maximum potential number to a more
realistic estimate of the actual number fit to serve.

Military manpower - military age
This entry gives the minimum age at which an individual may volunteer
for military service or be subject to conscription.

Military manpower - reaching military age annually
This entry gives the number of draft-age males and females entering the
military manpower pool in any given year and is a measure of the
availability of draft-age young adults.

Military - note
This entry includes miscellaneous military information of significance
not included elsewhere.

Money figures
All money figures are expressed in contemporaneous US dollars unless
otherwise indicated.

National holiday
This entry gives the primary national day of celebration - usually
independence day.

Nationality
This entry provides the identifying terms for citizens - noun and
adjective.

Natural hazards
This entry lists potential natural disasters.

Natural resources
This entry lists a country's mineral, petroleum, hydropower, and other
resources of commercial importance.

Net migration rate
This entry includes the figure for the difference between the number of
persons entering and leaving a country during the year per 1,000
persons (based on midyear population). An excess of persons entering
the country is referred to as net immigration (e.g., 3.56
migrants/1,000 population); an excess of persons leaving the country as
net emigration (e.g., -9.26 migrants/1,000 population). The net
migration rate indicates the contribution of migration to the overall
level of population change. High levels of migration can cause problems
such as increasing unemployment and potential ethnic strife (if people
are coming in) or a reduction in the labor force, perhaps in certain
key sectors (if people are leaving).

People
This category includes the entries dealing with the characteristics of
the people and their society.

People - note
This entry includes miscellaneous demographic information of
significance not included elsewhere.

Personal Names - Capitalization
The Factbook capitalizes the surname or family name of individuals for
the convenience of our users who are faced with a world of different
cultures and naming conventions. An example would be President SADDAM
Husayn of Iraq. Saddam is his name and Husayn is his father's name. He
may be referred to as President SADDAM Husayn or President SADDAM, but
not President Husayn. The need for capitalization, bold type,
underlining, italics, or some other indicator of the individual's
surname is apparent in the following examples:  MAO Zedong, Fidel
CASTRO Ruz, George W. BUSH, and TUNKU SALAHUDDIN Abdul Aziz Shah ibni
Al-Marhum Sultan Hisammuddin Alam Shah.  By knowing the surname, a
short form without all capital letters can be used with confidence as
in President Saddam, President Castro, Chairman Mao, President Bush, or
Sultan Tunku Salahuddin.  The same system of capitalization is extended
to the names of leaders with surnames that are not commonly used such
as Queen ELIZABETH II.

Personal Names - Spelling
The romanization of personal names in the Factbook normally follows the
same transliteration system used by the US Board on Geographic Names
for spelling place names.  At times, however, a foreign leader
expressly indicates a preference for, or the media or official
documents regularly use, a romanized spelling that differs from the
transliteration derived from the US Government standard.  In such
cases, the Factbook uses the alternative spelling.

Personal Names - Titles
The Factbook capitalizes any valid title (or short form of it)
immediately preceding a person's name.  A title standing alone is
lowercased. Examples:  President PUTIN and President BUSH are chiefs of
state.  In Russia, the president is chief of state and the premier is
the head of the government, while in the US, the president is both
chief of state and head of government.

Pipelines
This entry gives the lengths and types of pipelines for transporting
products like natural gas, crude oil, or petroleum products.

Political parties and leaders
This entry includes a listing of significant political organizations
and their leaders.

Political pressure groups and leaders
This entry includes a listing of organizations with leaders involved in
politics, but not standing for legislative election.

Population
This entry gives an estimate from the US Bureau of the Census based on
statistics from population censuses, vital statistics registration
systems, or sample surveys pertaining to the recent past and on
assumptions about future trends. The total population presents one
overall measure of the potential impact of the country on the world and
within its region. Note:  starting with the 1993 Factbook, demographic
estimates for some countries (mostly African) have explicitly taken
into account the effects of the growing impact of the HIV/AIDS
epidemic.  These countries are currently: The Bahamas, Benin, Botswana,
Brazil, Burkina Faso, Burma, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Central
African Republic, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Republic of the
Congo, Cote d'Ivoire, Ethiopia, Gabon, Ghana, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras,
Kenya, Lesotho, Malawi, Mozambique, Namibia, Nigeria, Rwanda, South
Africa, Swaziland, Tanzania, Thailand, Togo, Uganda, Zambia, and
Zimbabwe.

Population below poverty line
National estimates of the percentage of the population lying below the
poverty line are based on surveys of sub-groups, with the results
weighted by the number of people in each group. Definitions of poverty
vary considerably among nations. For example, rich nations generally
employ more generous standards of poverty than poor nations.

Population growth rate
The average annual percent change in the population, resulting from a
surplus (or deficit) of births over deaths and the balance of migrants
entering and leaving a country. The rate may be positive or negative.
The growth rate is a factor in determining how great a burden would be
imposed on a country by the changing needs of its people for
infrastructure (e.g., schools, hospitals, housing, roads), resources
(e.g., food, water, electricity), and jobs. Rapid population growth can
be seen as threatening by neighboring countries.

Ports and harbors
This entry lists the major ports and harbors selected on the basis of
overall importance to each country.  This is determined by evaluating a
number of factors (e.g., dollar value of goods handled, gross tonnage,
facilities, military significance).

Radio broadcast stations
This entry includes the total number of AM, FM, and shortwave broadcast
stations.

Radios
This entry gives the total number of radio receivers.

Railways
This entry includes the total route length of the railway network and
of its component parts by gauge: broad, dual, narrow, standard, and
other.

Reference maps
This section includes world, regional, and special or current interest
maps.

Religions
This entry includes a rank ordering of religions by adherents starting
with the largest group and sometimes includes the percent of total
population.

Sex ratio
This entry includes the number of males for each female in five age
groups - at birth, under 15 years, 15-64 years, 65 years and over, and
for the total population. Sex ratio at birth has recently emerged as an
indicator of certain kinds of sex discrimination in some countries. For
instance, high sex ratios at birth in some Asian countries are now
attributed to sex-selective abortion and infanticide due to a strong
preference for sons. This will affect future marriage patterns and
fertility patterns. Eventually it could cause unrest among young adult
males who are unable to find partners.

Suffrage
This entry gives the age at enfranchisement and whether the right to
vote is universal or restricted.

Telephone numbers
All telephone numbers in the Factbook consist of the country code in
brackets, the city or area code (where required) in parentheses, and
the local number. The one component that is not presented is the
international access code, which varies from country to country. For
example, an international direct dial telephone call placed from the US
to Madrid, Spain, would be as follows:

     011 [34] (1) 577-xxxx, where
     011 is the international access code for station-to-station calls;
01 is for calls other than station-to-station calls,
     [34] is the country code for Spain,
     (1) is the city code for Madrid,
     577 is the local exchange, and
     xxxx is the local telephone number.

An international direct dial telephone call placed from another country
to the US would be as follows:
     international access code + [1] (202) 939-xxxx, where
     [1] is the country code for the US,
     (202) is the area code for Washington, DC,
     939 is the local exchange, and
     xxxx is the local telephone number.

Telephone system
This entry includes a brief characterization of the system with details
on the domestic and international components. The following terms and
abbreviations are used throughout the entry:

     Africa ONE - a fiber-optic submarine cable link encircling the
continent of Africa.

     Arabsat - Arab Satellite Communications Organization (Riyadh,
Saudi Arabia).

     Autodin - Automatic Digital Network (US Department of Defense).

     CB - citizen's band mobile radio communications.

     cellular telephone system - the telephones in this system are
radio transceivers, with each instrument having its own private radio
frequency and sufficient radiated power to reach the booster station in
its area (cell), from which the telephone signal is fed to a regular
telephone exchange.

     Central American Microwave System - a trunk microwave radio relay
system that links the countries of Central America and Mexico with each
other.

     coaxial cable - a multichannel communication cable consisting of a
central conducting wire, surrounded by and insulated from a cylindrical
conducting shell; a large number of telephone channels can be made
available within the insulated space by the use of a large number of
carrier frequencies.

     Comsat - Communications Satellite Corporation (US).

     DSN - Defense Switched Network (formerly Automatic Voice Network
or Autovon); basic general-purpose, switched voice network of the
Defense Communications System (US Department of Defense).

     Eutelsat - European Telecommunications Satellite Organization
(Paris).

     fiber-optic cable - a multichannel communications cable using a
thread of optical glass fibers as a transmission medium in which the
signal (voice, video, etc.) is in the form of a coded pulse of light.

     GSM - a global system for mobile (cellular) communications devised
by the Groupe Special Mobile of the pan-European standardization
organization, Conference Europeanne des Posts et Telecommunications
(CEPT) in 1982.

     HF - high frequency; any radio frequency in the 3,000- to 30,000-
kHz range.

     Inmarsat - International Mobile Satellite Organization (London);
provider of global mobile satellite communications for commercial,
distress, and safety applications at sea, in the air, and on land.

     Intelsat - International Telecommunications Satellite Organization
(Washington, DC).

     Intersputnik - International Organization of Space Communications
(Moscow); first established in the former Soviet Union and the East
European countries, it is now marketing its services worldwide with
earth stations in North America, Africa, and East Asia.

     landline - communication wire or cable of any sort that is
installed on poles or buried in the ground.

     Marecs - Maritime European Communications Satellite used in the
Inmarsat system on lease from the European Space Agency.

     Marisat - satellites of the Comsat Corporation that participate in
the Inmarsat system.

     Medarabtel - the Middle East Telecommunications Project of the
International Telecommunications Union (ITU) providing a modern
telecommunications network, primarily by microwave radio relay, linking
Algeria, Djibouti, Egypt, Jordan, Libya, Morocco, Saudi Arabia,
Somalia, Sudan, Syria, Tunisia, and Yemen; it was initially started in
Morocco in 1970 by the Arab Telecommunications Union (ATU) and was
known at that time as the Middle East Mediterranean Telecommunications
Network.

     microwave radio relay - transmission of long distance telephone
calls and television programs by highly directional radio microwaves
that are received and sent on from one booster station to another on an
optical path.

     NMT - Nordic Mobile Telephone; an analog cellular telephone system
that was developed jointly by the national telecommunications
authorities of the Nordic countries (Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway,
and Sweden).

     Orbita - a Russian television service; also the trade name of a
packet-switched digital telephone network.

     radiotelephone communications - the two-way transmission and
reception of sounds by broadcast radio on authorized frequencies using
telephone handsets.

     PanAmSat - PanAmSat Corporation (Greenwich, CT).

     satellite communication system - a communication system consisting
of two or more earth stations and at least one satellite that provide
long distance transmission of voice, data, and television; the system
usually serves as a trunk connection between telephone exchanges; if
the earth stations are in the same country, it is a domestic system.

     satellite earth station - a communications facility with a
microwave radio transmitting and receiving antenna and required
receiving and transmitting equipment for communicating with satellites.

     satellite link - a radio connection between a satellite and an
earth station permitting communication between them, either one-way
(down link from satellite to earth station - television receive-only
transmission) or two-way (telephone channels).

     SHF - super high frequency; any radio frequency in the 3,000- to
30,000-MHz range.

     shortwave - radio frequencies (from 1.605 to 30 MHz) that fall
above the commercial broadcast band and are used for communication over
long distances.

     Solidaridad - geosynchronous satellites in Mexico's system of
international telecommunications in the Western Hemisphere.

     Statsionar - Russia's geostationary system for satellite
telecommunications.

     submarine cable - a cable designed for service under water.

     TAT - Trans-Atlantic Telephone; any of a number of high-capacity
submarine coaxial telephone cables linking Europe with North America.

     telefax - facsimile service between subscriber stations via the
public switched telephone network or the international Datel network.

     telegraph - a telecommunications system designed for unmodulated
electric impulse transmission.

     telex - a communication service involving teletypewriters
connected by wire through automatic exchanges.

     tropospheric scatter - a form of microwave radio transmission in
which the troposphere is used to scatter and reflect a fraction of the
incident radio waves back to earth; powerful, highly directional
antennas are used to transmit and receive the microwave signals;
reliable over-the-horizon communications are realized for distances up
to 600 miles in a single hop; additional hops can extend the range of
this system for very long distances.

     trunk network - a network of switching centers, connected by
multichannel trunk lines.

     UHF - ultra high frequency; any radio frequency in the 300- to
3,000-MHz range.

     VHF - very high frequency; any radio frequency in the 30- to 300-
MHz range.

Telephones - main lines in use
This entry gives the total number of main telephone lines in use.

Telephones - mobile cellular
This entry gives the total number of mobile cellular telephones in use.

Television - broadcast stations
This entry gives the total number of separate broadcast stations plus
any repeater stations.

Televisions
This entry gives the total number of television sets.

Terminology
Due to the highly structured nature of the Factbook database, some
collective generic terms have to be used. For example, the word Country
in the Country name entry refers to a wide variety of dependencies,
areas of special sovereignty, uninhabited islands, and other entities
in addition to the traditional countries or independent states.
Military is also used as an umbrella term for various civil defense,
security, and defense activities in many entries. The Independence
entry includes the usual colonial independence dates and former ruling
states as well as other significant nationhood dates such as the
traditional founding date or the date of unification, federation,
confederation, establishment, or state succession that are not strictly
independence dates. Dependent areas have the nature of their dependency
status noted in this same entry.

Terrain
This entry contains a brief description of the topography.

Total fertility rate
This entry gives a figure for the average number of children that would
be born per woman if all women lived to the end of their childbearing
years and bore children according to a given fertility rate at each
age. The total fertility rate is a more direct measure of the level of
fertility than the crude birth rate, since it refers to births per
woman. This indicator shows the potential for population growth in the
country. High rates will also place some limits on the labor force
participation rates for women. Large numbers of children born to women
indicate large family sizes that might limit the ability of the
families to feed and educate their children.

Transnational Issues
This category includes only two entries at the present time - Disputes
- international and Illicit drugs - that deal with current issues going
beyond national boundaries.

Transportation
This category includes the entries dealing with the means for movement
of people and goods.

Transportation - note
This entry includes miscellaneous transportation information of
significance not included elsewhere.

Unemployment rate
This entry contains the percent of the labor force that is without
jobs. Substantial underemployment might be noted.

Waterways
This entry gives the total length and individual names of navigable
rivers, canals, and other inland bodies of water.

Years
All year references are for the calendar year (CY) unless indicated as
fiscal year (FY). The calendar year is an accounting period of 12
months from 1 January to 31 December. The fiscal year is an accounting
period of 12 months other than 1 January to 31 December.



Note: Information for the US and US dependencies was compiled from
material in the public domain and does not represent Intelligence
Community estimates.



=====================================================================



A Brief History of Basic Intelligence and The World Factbook


The Intelligence Cycle is the process by which information is acquired,
converted into intelligence, and made available to policymakers.
Information is raw data from any source, data that may be fragmentary,
contradictory, unreliable, ambiguous, deceptive, or wrong.
Intelligence is information that has been collected, integrated,
evaluated, analyzed, and interpreted. Finished intelligence is the
final product of the Intelligence Cycle ready to be delivered to the
policymaker.

The three types of finished intelligence are: basic, current, and
estimative. Basic intelligence provides the fundamental and factual
reference material on a country or issue. Current intelligence reports
on new developments. Estimative intelligence judges probable outcomes.
The three are mutually supportive: basic intelligence is the foundation
on which the other two are constructed; current intelligence
continually updates the  inventory of knowledge; and estimative
intelligence revises overall interpretations of country and issue
prospects for guidance of basic and  current intelligence. The World
Factbook, The President's Daily Brief, and the National Intelligence
Estimates are examples of the three types of finished intelligence.

The United States has carried on foreign intelligence activities since
the days of George Washington but only since World War II have they
been coordinated on a government-wide basis. Three programs have
highlighted the development of coordinated basic intelligence since
that time: (1) the Joint Army Navy Intelligence Studies (JANIS), (2)
the National Intelligence Survey (NIS), and (3) The World Factbook.

During World War II, intelligence consumers realized that the
production of basic intelligence by different components of the US
Government resulted in a great duplication of effort and conflicting
information. The Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor in 1941 brought home
to leaders in Congress and the executive branch the need for
integrating departmental reports to national policymakers. Detailed and
coordinated information was needed not only on such major powers as
Germany and Japan, but also on places of little previous interest. In
the Pacific Theater, for example, the Navy and Marines had to launch
amphibious operations against many islands about which information was
unconfirmed or nonexistent. Intelligence authorities resolved that the
United States should never again be caught unprepared.

In 1943, Gen. George B. Strong (G-2), Adm. H. C. Train (Office of Naval
Intelligence - ONI), and Gen. William J. Donovan (Director of the
Office of Strategic Services - OSS) decided that a joint effort should
be initiated. A steering committee was appointed on 27 April 1943 that
recommended the formation of a Joint Intelligence Study Publishing
Board to assemble, edit, coordinate, and publish the Joint Army Navy
Intelligence Studies (JANIS). JANIS was the first interdepartmental
basic intelligence program to fulfill the needs of the US Government
for an authoritative and coordinated appraisal of strategic basic
intelligence. Between April 1943 and July 1947, the board published 34
JANIS studies. JANIS performed well in the war effort, and numerous
letters of commendation were received, including a statement from Adm.
Forrest Sherman, Chief of Staff, Pacific Ocean Areas, which said,
"JANIS has become the indispensable reference work for the shore-based
planners."

The need for more comprehensive basic intelligence in the postwar world
was well expressed in 1946 by George S. Pettee, a noted author on
national security. He wrote in The Future of American Secret
Intelligence (Infantry Journal Press, 1946, page 46) that world
leadership in peace requires even more elaborate intelligence than in
war. "The conduct of peace involves all countries, all human activities
- not just the enemy and his war production."

The Central Intelligence Agency was established on 26 July 1947 and
officially began operating on 18 September 1947. Effective 1 October
1947, the Director of Central Intelligence assumed operational
responsibility for JANIS. On 13 January 1948, the National Security
Council issued Intelligence Directive (NSCID) No. 3, which authorized
the National Intelligence Survey (NIS) program as a peacetime
replacement for the wartime JANIS program. Before adequate NIS country
sections could be produced, government agencies had to develop more
comprehensive gazetteers and better maps. The US Board on Geographic
Names (BGN) compiled the names; the Department of the Interior produced
the gazetteers; and CIA produced the maps.

The Hoover Commission's Clark Committee, set up in 1954 to study the
structure and administration of the CIA, reported to Congress in 1955
that: "The National Intelligence Survey is an invaluable publication
which provides the essential elements of basic intelligence on all
areas of the world.  There will always be a continuing requirement for
keeping the Survey up-to-date." The Factbook was created as an annual
summary and update to the encyclopedic NIS studies. The first
classified Factbook was published in August 1962, and the first
unclassified version was published in June 1971. The NIS program was
terminated in 1973 except for the Factbook, map, and gazetteer
components. The 1975 Factbook was the first to be made available to the
public with sales through the US Government Printing Office (GPO). The
1996 edition was printed by GPO, and the 1997 edition was reprinted by
GPO.  The year 2001 marks the 54th anniversary of the establishment of
the Central Intelligence Agency and the 58th year of continuous basic
intelligence support to the US Government by The World Factbook and its
two predecessor programs.



=====================================================================



Contributors and Copyright Information


In general, information available as of 1 January 2001 was used in the
preparation of this edition.

The World Factbook is prepared by the Central Intelligence Agency for
the use of US Government officials, and the style, format, coverage,
and content are designed to meet their specific requirements.
Information is provided by Antarctic Information Program (National
Science Foundation), Bureau of the Census (Department of Commerce),
Bureau of Labor Statistics (Department of Labor), Central Intelligence
Agency, Council of Managers of National Antarctic Programs, Defense
Intelligence Agency (Department of Defense), Department of State, Fish
and Wildlife Service (Department of the Interior), Maritime
Administration (Department of Transportation), National Imagery and
Mapping Agency (Department of Defense), Naval Facilities Engineering
Command (Department of Defense), Office of Insular Affairs (Department
of the Interior), Office of Naval Intelligence (Department of Defense),
US Board on Geographic Names (Department of the Interior), US
Transportation Command (Department of Defense), and other public and
private sources.

The Factbook is in the public domain. Accordingly, it may be copied
freely without permission of the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA).
The official seal of the CIA, however, may NOT be copied without
permission as required by the CIA Act of 1949 (50 U.S.C. section
403m).  Misuse of the official seal of the CIA could result in civil
and criminal penalties.

Comments and queries are welcome and may be addressed to:

Central Intelligence Agency
Attn.: Office of Public Affairs
Washington, DC 20505
Telephone: [1] (703) 482-0623
FAX: [1] (703) 482-1739



=====================================================================



Purchasing Information


The Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) publishes The World Factbook in
printed and Internet versions. US Government officials may obtain
information about availability of the Factbook from their organizations
or through liaison channels to the CIA. Other users may obtain sales
information about printed copies from the following:

Superintendent of Documents
P. O. Box 371954
Pittsburgh, PA 15250-7954
Telephone: [1] (202) 512-1800
FAX: [1] (202) 512-2250
http://bookstore.gpo.gov/

National Technical Information Service
5285 Port Royal Road
Springfield, VA 22161
Telephone: [1] (800) 553-6847 (only in the US);
[1] (703) 605-6000 (for outside US)
FAX: [1] (703) 605-6900
http://www.ntis.gov/

The World Factbook can be accessed on the Internet at:
http://www.cia.gov/cia/publications/factbook/index.html



=====================================================================



@Afghanistan




Afghanistan    Introduction

Background: Afghanistan was invaded and occupied by the Soviet Union
in 1979. The USSR was forced to withdraw 10 years later by
anti-communist mujahidin forces supplied and trained by the US,
Saudi Arabia, Pakistan, and others. Fighting subsequently continued
among the various mujahidin factions, but the fundamentalist Islamic
Taliban movement has been able to seize most of the country. In
addition to the continuing civil strife, the country suffers from
enormous poverty, a crumbling infrastructure, and widespread land
mines.



Afghanistan    Geography

Location: Southern Asia, north and west of Pakistan, east of Iran

Geographic coordinates: 33 00 N, 65 00 E

Map references: Asia

Area: total:  647,500 sq km

land:  647,500 sq km

water:  0 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly smaller than Texas

Land boundaries: total:  5,529 km

border countries:  China 76 km, Iran 936 km, Pakistan 2,430 km,
Tajikistan 1,206 km, Turkmenistan 744 km, Uzbekistan 137 km

Coastline: 0 km (landlocked)

Maritime claims: none (landlocked)

Climate: arid to semiarid; cold winters and hot summers

Terrain: mostly rugged mountains; plains in north and southwest

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Amu Darya 258 m

highest point:  Nowshak 7,485 m

Natural resources: natural gas, petroleum, coal, copper, chromite,
talc, barites, sulfur, lead, zinc, iron ore, salt, precious and
semiprecious stones

Land use: arable land:  12%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  46%

forests and woodland:  3%

other:  39% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 30,000 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: damaging earthquakes occur in Hindu Kush mountains;
flooding; droughts

Environment - current issues: soil degradation; overgrazing;
deforestation (much of the remaining forests are being cut down for
fuel and building materials); desertification

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Desertification,
Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Marine Dumping,
Nuclear Test Ban

signed, but not ratified:  Biodiversity, Climate Change, Hazardous
Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Life Conservation

Geography - note: landlocked



Afghanistan    People

Population: 26,813,057 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  42.2% (male 5,775,921; female 5,538,836)

15-64 years:  55.01% (male 7,644,242; female 7,106,568)

65 years and over:  2.79% (male 394,444; female 353,046) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 3.48% (2001 est.)

note:  this rate reflects the continued return of refugees from Iran

Birth rate: 41.42 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 17.72 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 11.11 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1.08 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  1.12 male(s)/female

total population:  1.06 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 147.02 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  46.24 years

male:  46.97 years

female:  45.47 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 5.79 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: less than 0.01% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: NA

HIV/AIDS - deaths: NA

Nationality: noun:  Afghan(s)

adjective:  Afghan

Ethnic groups: Pashtun 38%, Tajik 25%, Hazara 19%, minor ethnic
groups (Aimaks, Turkmen, Baloch, and others) 12%, Uzbek 6%

Religions: Sunni Muslim 84%, Shi'a Muslim 15%, other 1%

Languages: Pashtu 35%, Afghan Persian (Dari) 50%, Turkic languages
(primarily Uzbek and Turkmen) 11%, 30 minor languages (primarily
Balochi and Pashai) 4%, much bilingualism

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  31.5%

male:  47.2%

female:  15% (1999 est.)



Afghanistan    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Islamic State of Afghanistan;
note - the self-proclaimed Taliban government refers to the country
as Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan

conventional short form:  Afghanistan

local long form:  Dowlat-e Eslami-ye Afghanestan

local short form:  Afghanestan

former:  Republic of Afghanistan

Government type: no functioning central government, administered by
factions

Capital: Kabul

Administrative divisions: 30 provinces (velayat, singular -
velayat); Badakhshan, Badghis, Baghlan, Balkh, Bamian, Farah,
Faryab, Ghazni, Ghowr, Helmand, Herat, Jowzjan, Kabol, Kandahar,
Kapisa, Konar, Kondoz, Laghman, Lowgar, Nangarhar, Nimruz, Oruzgan,
Paktia, Paktika, Parvan, Samangan, Sar-e Pol, Takhar, Vardak, Zabol;
note - there may be two new provinces of Nurestan (Nuristan) and
Khowst

Independence: 19 August 1919 (from UK control over Afghan foreign
affairs)

National holiday: Independence Day, 19 August (1919)

Constitution: none

Legal system: a new legal system has not been adopted but all
factions tacitly agree they will follow Shari'a (Islamic law)

Suffrage: NA; previously males 15-50 years of age

Executive branch: on 27 September 1996, the ruling members of the
Afghan Government were displaced by members of the Islamic Taliban
movement; the Islamic State of Afghanistan has no functioning
government at this time, and the country remains divided among
fighting factions

note:  the Taliban have declared themselves the legitimate
government of Afghanistan; however, the UN still recognizes the
government of Burhanuddin RABBANI; the Organization of the Islamic
Conference has left the Afghan seat vacant until the question of
legitimacy can be resolved through negotiations among the warring
factions; the country is essentially divided along ethnic lines; the
Taliban controls the capital of Kabul and approximately two-thirds
of the country including the predominately ethnic Pashtun areas in
southern Afghanistan; opposing factions have their stronghold in the
ethnically diverse north

Legislative branch: non-functioning as of June 1993

Judicial branch: upper courts were non-functioning as of March 1995
(local Shari'a or Islamic law courts are functioning throughout the
country)

Political parties and leaders: Taliban (Religious Students Movement)
[Mullah Mohammad OMAR]; United National Islamic Front for the
Salvation of Afghanistan or UNIFSA [Burhanuddin RABBANI, chairman;
Gen. Abdul Rashid DOSTAM, vice chairman; Ahmad Shah MASOOD, military
commander; Mohammed Yunis QANUNI, spokesman]; note - made up of 13
parties opposed to the Taliban including Harakat-i-Islami
Afghanistan (Islamic Movement of Afghanistan), Hizb-i-Islami
(Islamic Party), Hizb-i-Wahdat-i-Islami (Islamic Unity Party),
Jumaat-i-Islami Afghanistan (Islamic Afghan Society),
Jumbish-i-Milli (National Front), Mahaz-i-Milli-i-Islami (National
Islamic Front)

Political pressure groups and leaders: Afghan refugees in Pakistan,
Australia, US, and elsewhere have organized politically; Mellat
(Social Democratic Party) [leader NA]; Peshawar, Pakistan-based
groups such as the Coordination Council for National Unity and
Understanding in Afghanistan or CUNUA [Ishaq GAILANI]; tribal elders
represent traditional Pashtun leadership; Writers Union of Free
Afghanistan or WUFA [A. Rasul AMIN]

International organization participation: AsDB, CP, ECO, ESCAP, FAO,
G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF,
Intelsat, IOC, IOM (observer), ITU, NAM, OIC, OPCW, UN, UNCTAD,
UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WFTU, WHO, WMO, WToO

Diplomatic representation in the US: none; note - embassy operations
suspended 21 August 1997

consulate(s) general:  New York

Diplomatic representation from the US: the US embassy in Kabul has
been closed since January 1989 due to security concerns

Flag description: three equal horizontal bands of green (top),
white, and black with a gold emblem centered on the three bands; the
emblem features a temple-like structure with Islamic inscriptions
above and below, encircled by a wreath on the left and right and by
a bolder Islamic inscription above, all of which are encircled by
two crossed scimitars

note:  the Taliban uses a plain white flag



Afghanistan    Economy

Economy - overview: Afghanistan is an extremely poor, landlocked
country, highly dependent on farming and livestock raising (sheep
and goats). Economic considerations have played second fiddle to
political and military upheavals during two decades of war,
including the nearly 10-year Soviet military occupation (which ended
15 February 1989). During that conflict one-third of the population
fled the country, with Pakistan and Iran sheltering a combined peak
of more than 6 million refugees. In early 2000, 2 million Afghan
refugees remained in Pakistan and about 1.4 million in Iran. Gross
domestic product has fallen substantially over the past 20 years
because of the loss of labor and capital and the disruption of trade
and transport; severe drought added to the nation's difficulties in
1998-2000. The majority of the population continues to suffer from
insufficient food, clothing, housing, and medical care. Inflation
remains a serious problem throughout the country. International aid
can deal with only a fraction of the humanitarian problem, let alone
promote economic development. In 1999-2000, internal civil strife
continued, hampering both domestic economic policies and
international aid efforts. Numerical data are likely to be either
unavailable or unreliable. Afghanistan was by far the largest
producer of opium poppies in 2000, and narcotics trafficking is a
major source of revenue.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $21 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: NA%

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $800 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  53%

industry:  28.5%

services:  18.5% (1990)

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): NA%

Labor force: 10 million (2000 est.)

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture 70%, industry 15%, services
15% (1990 est.)

Unemployment rate: NA%

Budget: revenues:  $NA

expenditures:  $NA, including capital expenditures of $NA

Industries: small-scale production of textiles, soap, furniture,
shoes, fertilizer, and cement; handwoven carpets; natural gas, oil,
coal, copper

Electricity - production: 420 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  35.71%

hydro:  64.29%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 480.6 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 90 million kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: opium poppies, wheat, fruits, nuts; wool,
mutton, karakul pelts

Exports: $80 million (does not include opium) (1996 est.)

Exports - commodities: opium, fruits and nuts, handwoven carpets,
wool, cotton, hides and pelts, precious and semi-precious gems

Exports - partners: FSU, Pakistan, Iran, Germany, India, UK,
Belgium, Luxembourg, Czech Republic

Imports: $150 million (1996 est.)

Imports - commodities: capital goods, food and petroleum products;
most consumer goods

Imports - partners: FSU, Pakistan, Iran, Japan, Singapore, India,
South Korea, Germany

Debt - external: $5.5 billion (1996 est.)

Economic aid - recipient: US provided about $70 million in
humanitarian assistance in 1997; US continues to contribute to
multilateral assistance through the UN programs of food aid,
immunization, land mine removal, and a wide range of aid to refugees
and displaced persons

Currency: afghani (AFA)

Currency code: AFA

Exchange rates: afghanis per US dollar - 4,700 (January 2000), 4,750
(February 1999), 17,000 (December 1996), 7,000 (January 1995), 1,900
(January 1994), 1,019 (March 1993), 850 (1991); note - these rates
reflect the free market exchange rates rather than the official
exchange rate, which was fixed at 50.600 afghanis to the dollar
until 1996, when it rose to 2,262.65 per dollar, and finally became
fixed again at 3,000.00 per dollar in April 1996

Fiscal year: 21 March - 20 March



Afghanistan    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 29,000 (1996)

note:  there were 21,000 main lines in service in Kabul in 1998

Telephones - mobile cellular: NA

Telephone system: general assessment:  very limited telephone and
telegraph service

domestic:  in 1997, telecommunications links were established
between Mazar-e Sharif, Herat, Kandahar, Jalalabad, and Kabul
through satellite and microwave systems

international:  satellite earth stations - 1 Intelsat (Indian Ocean)
linked only to Iran and 1 Intersputnik (Atlantic Ocean region);
commercial satellite telephone center in Ghazni

Radio broadcast stations: AM 7 (6 are inactive; the active station
is in Kabul), FM 1, shortwave 1 (broadcasts in Pushtu, Dari, Urdu,
and English) (1999)

Radios: 167,000 (1999)

Television broadcast stations: at least 10 (one government run
central television station in Kabul and regional stations in nine of
the 30 provinces; the regional stations operate on a reduced
schedule; also, in 1997, there was a station in Mazar-e Sharif
reaching four northern Afghanistan provinces) (1998)

Televisions: 100,000 (1999)

Internet country code: .af

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 1 (2000)

Internet users: NA



Afghanistan    Transportation

Railways: total:  24.6 km

broad gauge:  9.6 km 1.524-m gauge from Gushgy (Turkmenistan) to
Towraghondi; 15 km 1.524-m gauge from Termiz (Uzbekistan) to
Kheyrabad transshipment point on south bank of Amu Darya

Highways: total:  21,000 km

paved:  2,793 km

unpaved:  18,207 km (1998 est.)

Waterways: 1,200 km

note:  chiefly Amu Darya, which handles vessels with DWT up to about
500 (2001)

Pipelines: petroleum products - Uzbekistan to Bagram and
Turkmenistan to Shindand; natural gas 180 km

Ports and harbors: Kheyrabad, Shir Khan

Airports: 45 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  10

over 3,047 m:  3

2,438 to 3,047 m:  4

1,524 to 2,437 m:  2

under 914 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  35

2,438 to 3,047 m:  4

1,524 to 2,437 m:  15

914 to 1,523 m:  4

under 914 m:  12 (2000 est.)

Heliports: 3 (2000 est.)



Afghanistan    Military

Military branches: NA; note - the military does not exist on a
national basis; some elements of the former Army, Air and Air
Defense Forces, National Guard, Border Guard Forces, National Police
Force (Sarandoi), and tribal militias still exist but are
factionalized among the various groups

Military manpower - military age: 22 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  6,645,023 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
3,561,957 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  252,869
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $NA

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: NA%



Afghanistan    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: support to Islamic militants worldwide by
some factions; question over which group should hold Afghanistan's
seat at the UN

Illicit drugs: world's largest illicit opium producer, surpassing
Burma (potential production in 1999 - 1,670 metric tons; cultivation
in 1999 - 51,500 hectares, a 23% increase over 1998); a major source
of hashish; increasing number of heroin-processing laboratories
being set up in the country; major political factions in the country
profit from drug trade

======================================================================

@Albania




Albania    Introduction

Background: In 1990 Albania ended 44 years of xenophobic communist
rule and established a multiparty democracy. The transition has
proven difficult as corrupt governments have tried to deal with high
unemployment, a dilapidated infrastructure, widespread gangsterism,
and disruptive political opponents. International observers judged
local elections in 2000 to be acceptable and a step toward
democratic development, but serious deficiencies remain to be
corrected before the the 2001 parliamentary elections.



Albania    Geography

Location: Southeastern Europe, bordering the Adriatic Sea and Ionian
Sea, between Greece and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia

Geographic coordinates: 41 00 N, 20 00 E

Map references: Europe

Area: total:  28,748 sq km

land:  27,398 sq km

water:  1,350 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly smaller than Maryland

Land boundaries: total:  720 km

border countries:  Greece 282 km, The Former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia 151 km, Yugoslavia 287 km

Coastline: 362 km

Maritime claims: continental shelf:  200-m depth or to the depth of
exploitation

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: mild temperate; cool, cloudy, wet winters; hot, clear, dry
summers; interior is cooler and wetter

Terrain: mostly mountains and hills; small plains along coast

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Adriatic Sea 0 m

highest point:  Maja e Korabit (Golem Korab) 2,753 m

Natural resources: petroleum, natural gas, coal, chromium, copper,
timber, nickel, hydropower

Land use: arable land:  21%

permanent crops:  5%

permanent pastures:  15%

forests and woodland:  38%

other:  21% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 3,410 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: destructive earthquakes; tsunamis occur along
southwestern coast; drought

Environment - current issues: deforestation; soil erosion; water
pollution from industrial and domestic effluents

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Desertification, Hazardous Wastes, Ozone Layer
Protection, Wetlands

signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Geography - note: strategic location along Strait of Otranto (links
Adriatic Sea to Ionian Sea and Mediterranean Sea)



Albania    People

Population: 3,510,484 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  29.53% (male 536,495; female 500,026)

15-64 years:  63.48% (male 1,073,351; female 1,155,115)

65 years and over:  6.99% (male 107,476; female 138,021) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 0.88% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 19.01 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 6.5 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: -3.69 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.08 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.07 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  0.93 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.78 male(s)/female

total population:  0.96 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 39.99 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  71.83 years

male:  69.01 years

female:  74.87 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 2.32 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: less than 0.01% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: less than 100 (2000 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: less than 100 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Albanian(s)

adjective:  Albanian

Ethnic groups: Albanian 95%, Greeks 3%, other 2% (Vlachs, Gypsies,
Serbs, and Bulgarians) (1989 est.)

note:  in 1989, other estimates of the Greek population ranged from
1% (official Albanian statistics) to 12% (from a Greek organization)

Religions: Muslim 70%, Albanian Orthodox 20%, Roman Catholic 10%

note:  all mosques and churches were closed in 1967 and religious
observances prohibited; in November 1990, Albania began allowing
private religious practice

Languages: Albanian (Tosk is the official dialect), Greek

Literacy: definition:  age 9 and over can read and write

total population:  93% (1997 est.)

male:  NA%

female:  NA%



Albania    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Republic of Albania

conventional short form:  Albania

local long form:  Republika e Shqiperise

local short form:  Shqiperia

former:  People's Socialist Republic of Albania

Government type: emerging democracy

Capital: Tirana

Administrative divisions: 36 districts (rrethe, singular - rreth)
and 1 municipality* (bashki); Berat, Bulqize, Delvine, Devoll
(Bilisht), Diber (Peshkopi), Durres, Elbasan, Fier, Gjirokaster,
Gramsh, Has (Krume), Kavaje, Kolonje (Erseke), Korce, Kruje, Kucove,
Kukes, Kurbin, Lezhe, Librazhd, Lushnje, Malesi e Madhe (Koplik),
Mallakaster (Ballsh), Mat (Burrel), Mirdite (Rreshen), Peqin,
Permet, Pogradec, Puke, Sarande, Shkoder, Skrapar (Corovode),
Tepelene, Tirane (Tirana), Tirane* (Tirana), Tropoje (Bajram Curri),
Vlore

note:  administrative divisions have the same names as their
administrative centers (exceptions have the administrative center
name following in parentheses)

Independence: 28 November 1912 (from Ottoman Empire)

National holiday: Independence Day, 28 November (1912)

Constitution: a new constitution was adopted by popular referendum
on 28 November 1998; note - the opposition Democratic Party
boycotted the vote

Legal system: has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal and compulsory

Executive branch: chief of state:  President of the Republic Rexhep
MEIDANI (since 24 July 1997)

head of government:  Prime Minister Ilir META (since 29 October 1999)

cabinet:  Council of Ministers nominated by the prime minister and
approved by the president

elections:  president elected by the People's Assembly for a
five-year term; election last held 24 July 1997 (next to be held NA
2002); prime minister appointed by the president

election results:  Rexhep MEIDANI elected president; People's
Assembly vote by number - total votes 122, for 110, against 3,
abstained 2, invalid 7

Legislative branch: unicameral People's Assembly or Kuvendi Popullor
(155 seats; most members are elected by direct popular vote and some
by proportional vote for four-year terms)

elections:  last held 29 June 1997 (next held 24 June 2001, 2nd
round 8 July 2001)

election results:  percent of vote by party - PS 53.36%, PD 25.33%,
PSD 2.5%, PBDNJ 2.78%, PBK 2.36%, PAD 2.85%, PR 2.25%, PLL 3.09%,
PDK 1.00%, PBSD 0.84%; seats by party - PS 101, PD 27, PSD 8, PBDNJ
4, PBK 3, PAD 2, PR 2, PLL 2, PDK 1, PBSD 1, PUK 1, independents 3

Judicial branch: Supreme Court (chairman is elected by the People's
Assembly for a four-year term)

Political parties and leaders: Albanian National Front (Balli
Kombetar) or PBK [Abaz ERMENJI]; Albanian Republican Party or PR
[Fatmir MEDIU]; Albanian Socialist Party or PS (formerly the Albania
Workers Party) [Fatos NANO, chairman]; Christian Democratic Party or
PDK [Zef BUSHATI]; Democratic Alliance or PAD [Neritan CEKA];
Democratic Party or PD [Sali BERISHA]; Group of Reformist Democrats
[Leonard NDOKA]; Liberal Union Party [Teodor LACO]; note - Teodor
LACO of the Liberal Union Party was leader of the Social Democratic
Union of Albania or PBSD; Movement of Legality Party or PLL [Nderim
KUPI]; OMONIA [Vagjelis DULES]; Party of National Unity or PUK
[Idajet BEQUIRI]; Social Democratic Party or PSD [Skender GJINUSHI];
Unity for Human Rights Party or PBDNJ [Vasil MELO, chairman]

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: ACCT (associate), BSEC,
CCC, CE, CEI, EAPC, EBRD, ECE, FAO, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICRM, IDA,
IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Intelsat (nonsignatory user),
Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO (correspondent), ITU, OIC, OPCW, OSCE, PFP,
UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNOMIG, UPU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO,
WTrO

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Petrit BUSHATI

chancery:  2100 S Street NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone:  [1] (202) 223-4942

FAX:  [1] (202) 628-7342

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Joseph LIMPRECHT

embassy:  Rruga Elbasanit Labinoti 103, Tirana

mailing address:  PSC 59, Box 100(A), APO AE 09624

telephone:  [355] (42) 32875, 33520

FAX:  [355] (42) 32222

Flag description: red with a black two-headed eagle in the center



Albania    Economy

Economy - overview: Poor by European standards, Albania is making
the difficult transition to a more open-market economy. The economy
rebounded in 1993-95 after a severe depression accompanying the end
of the previous centrally planned system in 1990 and 1991. However,
a weakening of government resolve to maintain stabilization policies
in the election year of 1996 contributed to renewal of inflationary
pressures, spurred by the budget deficit which exceeded 12% of GDP.
The collapse of financial pyramid schemes in early 1997 - which had
attracted deposits from a substantial portion of Albania's
population - triggered severe social unrest which led to more than
1,500 deaths, widespread destruction of property, and a 7% drop in
GDP. The government has taken measures to curb violent crime and to
revive economic activity and trade. The economy is bolstered by
remittances from some 20% of the labor force that works abroad,
mostly in Greece and Italy. These remittances supplement GDP and
help offset the large foreign trade deficit. Most agricultural land
was privatized in 1992, substantially improving peasant incomes. In
1998, Albania recovered the 7% drop in GDP of 1997 and pushed ahead
by 8% in 1999 and by 7.5% in 2000. International aid helped defray
the high costs of receiving and returning refugees from the Kosovo
conflict. Privatization scored some successes in 2000, but other
reforms lagged.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $10.5 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 7.5% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $3,000 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  55%

industry:  24%

services:  21% (2000)

Population below poverty line: 19.6% (1996 est.)

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 1% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 1.692 million (including 352,000 emigrant workers and
261,000 domestically unemployed) (1994 est.)

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture 50%, industry and services
50%

Unemployment rate: 16% (2000 est.) officially; may be as high as 25%

Budget: revenues:  $393 million

expenditures:  $676 million, including capital expenditures of $NA
(1997 est.)

Industries: food processing, textiles and clothing; lumber, oil,
cement, chemicals, mining, basic metals, hydropower

Industrial production growth rate: 9% (2000 est.)

Electricity - production: 5.332 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  3.81%

hydro:  96.19%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 5.379 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 100 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 600 million kWh (2000)

Agriculture - products: wheat, corn, potatoes, vegetables, fruits,
sugar beets, grapes; meat, dairy products

Exports: $310 million (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Exports - commodities: textiles and footwear; asphalt, metals and
metallic ores, crude oil; vegetables, fruits, tobacco

Exports - partners: Italy 67%, Greece 15%, Germany 5%, Austria 2%,
The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia 2% (2000)

Imports: $1 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Imports - commodities: machinery and equipment, foodstuffs,
textiles, chemicals

Imports - partners: Italy 37%, Greece 28%, Turkey 6%, Germany 6%,
Bulgaria 3% (2000)

Debt - external: $1 billion (2000)

Economic aid - recipient: $NA; aid for energy from China, Germany,
Norway (2000)

Currency: lek (ALL)

Currency code: ALL

Exchange rates: leke per US dollar - 146.08 (December 2000),143.71
(2000) 137.69 (1999), 150.63 (1998), 148.93 (1997), 104.50 (1996);
note - leke is the plural of lek

Fiscal year: calendar year



Albania    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 87,000 (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 3,100 (1999)

Telephone system: general assessment:  Albania has the poorest
telephone service in Europe with fewer than two telephones per 100
inhabitants; it is doubtful that every village has telephone service

domestic:  obsolete wire system; no longer provides a telephone for
every village; in 1992, following the fall of the communist
government, peasants cut the wire to about 1,000 villages and used
it to build fences

international:  inadequate; international traffic carried by
microwave radio relay from the Tirana exchange to Italy and Greece

Radio broadcast stations: AM 16, FM 3, shortwave 2 (1999)

Radios: 810,000 (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 9 (plus 264 repeaters) (1995)

Televisions: 405,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .al

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 7 (2000)

Internet users: 2,500 (2000)



Albania    Transportation

Railways: total:  447 km

standard gauge:  447 km 1.435-m gauge (2001)

Highways: total:  18,000 km

paved:  5,400 km

unpaved:  12,600 km (1998 est.)

Waterways: 43 km

note:  includes Albanian sections of Lake Scutari, Lake Ohrid, and
Lake Prespa (1990)

Pipelines: crude oil 145 km; petroleum products 55 km; natural gas
64 km (1991)

Ports and harbors: Durres, Sarande, Shengjin, Vlore

Merchant marine: total:  9 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 17,797
GRT/26,324 DWT

ships by type:  cargo 9 (2000 est.)

Airports: 11 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  3

2,438 to 3,047 m:  3 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  8

over 3,047 m:  1

1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

914 to 1,523 m:  2

under 914 m:  4 (2000 est.)

Heliports: 1 (2000 est.)



Albania    Military

Military branches: Army, Navy, Air and Air Defense Forces, Interior
Ministry Troops, Border Guards

Military manpower - military age: 19 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  870,768 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
712,763 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  35,792
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $42 million (FY99)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 1.5% (FY99)



Albania    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: the Albanian Government supports
protection of the rights of ethnic Albanians outside of its borders
but has downplayed them to further its primary foreign policy goal
of regional cooperation; Albanian majority in Kosovo seeks
independence from Yugoslavia; Albanians in The Former Yugoslav
Republic of Macedonia claim discrimination in education, access to
public-sector jobs, and representation in government

Illicit drugs: increasingly active transshipment point for Southwest
Asian opiates, hashish, and cannabis transiting the Balkan route and
- to a far lesser extent - cocaine from South America destined for
Western Europe; limited opium and cannabis production; ethnic
Albanian narcotrafficking organizations active and rapidly expanding
in Europe

======================================================================

@Algeria




Algeria    Introduction

Background: After a century of rule by France, Algeria became
independent in 1962. The surprising first round success of the
fundamentalist FIS (Islamic Salvation Front) party in December 1991
balloting caused the army to intervene, crack down on the FIS, and
postpone the subsequent elections. The FIS response has resulted in
a continuous low-grade civil conflict with the secular state
apparatus, which nonetheless has allowed elections featuring
pro-government and moderate religious-based parties. FIS's armed
wing, the Islamic Salvation Army, disbanded itself in January 2000
and many armed militants surrendered under an amnesty program
designed to promote national reconciliation. Nevertheless, residual
fighting continues. Other concerns include large-scale unemployment
and the need to diversify the petroleum-based economy.



Algeria    Geography

Location: Northern Africa, bordering the Mediterranean Sea, between
Morocco and Tunisia

Geographic coordinates: 28 00 N, 3 00 E

Map references: Africa

Area: total:  2,381,740 sq km

land:  2,381,740 sq km

water:  0 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly less than 3.5 times the size of Texas

Land boundaries: total:  6,343 km

border countries:  Libya 982 km, Mali 1,376 km, Mauritania 463 km,
Morocco 1,559 km, Niger 956 km, Tunisia 965 km, Western Sahara 42 km

Coastline: 998 km

Maritime claims: exclusive fishing zone:  32-52 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: arid to semiarid; mild, wet winters with hot, dry summers
along coast; drier with cold winters and hot summers on high
plateau; sirocco is a hot, dust/sand-laden wind especially common in
summer

Terrain: mostly high plateau and desert; some mountains; narrow,
discontinuous coastal plain

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Chott Melrhir -40 m

highest point:  Tahat 3,003 m

Natural resources: petroleum, natural gas, iron ore, phosphates,
uranium, lead, zinc

Land use: arable land:  3%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  13%

forests and woodland:  2%

other:  82% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 5,550 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: mountainous areas subject to severe earthquakes;
mud slides

Environment - current issues: soil erosion from overgrazing and
other poor farming practices; desertification; dumping of raw
sewage, petroleum refining wastes, and other industrial effluents is
leading to the pollution of rivers and coastal waters; Mediterranean
Sea, in particular, becoming polluted from oil wastes, soil erosion,
and fertilizer runoff; inadequate supplies of potable water

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental
Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer
Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands

signed, but not ratified:  Nuclear Test Ban

Geography - note: second-largest country in Africa (after Sudan)



Algeria    People

Population: 31,736,053 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  34.21% (male 5,528,755; female 5,328,083)

15-64 years:  61.72% (male 9,901,319; female 9,687,449)

65 years and over:  4.07% (male 594,973; female 695,474) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 1.71% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 22.76 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 5.22 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: -0.45 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.04 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1.02 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.86 male(s)/female

total population:  1.02 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 40.56 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  69.95 years

male:  68.6 years

female:  71.34 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 2.72 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 0.07% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: NA

HIV/AIDS - deaths: NA

Nationality: noun:  Algerian(s)

adjective:  Algerian

Ethnic groups: Arab-Berber 99%, European less than 1%

Religions: Sunni Muslim (state religion) 99%, Christian and Jewish 1%

Languages: Arabic (official), French, Berber dialects

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  61.6%

male:  73.9%

female:  49% (1995 est.)



Algeria    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  People's Democratic Republic
of Algeria

conventional short form:  Algeria

local long form:  Al Jumhuriyah al Jaza'iriyah ad Dimuqratiyah ash
Sha'biyah

local short form:  Al Jaza'ir

Government type: republic

Capital: Algiers

Administrative divisions: 48 provinces (wilayas, singular - wilaya);
Adrar, Ain Defla, Ain Temouchent, Alger, Annaba, Batna, Bechar,
Bejaia, Biskra, Blida, Bordj Bou Arreridj, Bouira, Boumerdes, Chlef,
Constantine, Djelfa, El Bayadh, El Oued, El Tarf, Ghardaia, Guelma,
Illizi, Jijel, Khenchela, Laghouat, Mascara, Medea, Mila,
Mostaganem, M'Sila, Naama, Oran, Ouargla, Oum el Bouaghi, Relizane,
Saida, Setif, Sidi Bel Abbes, Skikda, Souk Ahras, Tamanghasset,
Tebessa, Tiaret, Tindouf, Tipaza, Tissemsilt, Tizi Ouzou, Tlemcen

Independence: 5 July 1962 (from France)

National holiday: Revolution Day, 1 November (1954)

Constitution: 19 November 1976, effective 22 November 1976; revised
3 November 1988, 23 February 1989, and 28 November 1996; note -
referendum approving the revisions of 28 November 1996 was signed
into law 7 December 1996

Legal system: socialist, based on French and Islamic law; judicial
review of legislative acts in ad hoc Constitutional Council composed
of various public officials, including several Supreme Court
justices; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Abdelaziz BOUTEFLIKA
(since 28 April 1999)

head of government:  Prime Minister Ali BENFLIS (since 26 August
2000)

cabinet:  Cabinet of Ministers appointed by the president

elections:  president elected by popular vote for a five-year term;
election last held 15 April 1999 (next to be held NA April 2004);
prime minister appointed by the president

election results:  Abdelaziz BOUTEFLIKA elected president; percent
of vote - Abdelaziz BOUTEFLIKA over 70%; note - his six opposing
candidates withdrew on the eve of the election citing electoral fraud

Legislative branch: bicameral Parliament consists of the National
People's Assembly or Al-Majlis Ech-Chaabi Al-Watani (380 seats;
members elected by popular vote to serve five-year terms) and the
Council of Nations (144 seats; one-third of the members appointed by
the president, two-thirds elected by indirect vote; members serve
six-year terms; the constitution requires half the council to be
renewed every three years)

elections:  National People's Assembly - last held 5 June 1997 (next
to be held NA 2002); Council of Nations - last held 30 December 2000
(next to be held NA 2003)

election results:  National People's Assembly - percent of vote by
party - RND 40.8%, MSP 18.2%, FLN 16.8%, Nahda Movement 8.9%, FFS
5%, RCD 5%, PT 1.1%, Progressive Republican Party 0.8%, Union for
Democracy and Liberty 0.3%, Social Liberal Party 0.3%, independents
2.8%; seats by party - RND 155, MSP 69, FLN 64, Nahda Movement 34,
FFS 19, RCD 19, PT 4, Progressive Republican Party 3, Union for
Democracy and Liberty 1, Social Liberal Party 1, independents 11;
Council of Nations - percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party
- RND 79, FLN 12, FFS 4, MSP 1 (remaining 48 seats appointed by the
president, party breakdown NA)

Judicial branch: Supreme Court or Cour Supreme

Political parties and leaders: Democratic National Rally or RND
[Ahmed OUYAHIA, chairman]; Islamic Salvation Front or FIS (outlawed
April 1992) [Ali BELHADJ and Dr. Abassi MADANI (imprisoned), Rabeh
KEBIR (self-exile in Germany)]; Movement of a Peaceful Society or
MSP [Mahfoud NAHNAH, chairman]; National Liberation Front or FLN
[Boualem BENHAMOUDA, secretary general]; Progressive Republican
Party [Khadir DRISS]; Rally for Culture and Democracy or RCD [Said
SAADI, secretary general]; Renaissance Movement or EnNahda Movement
[Lahbib ADAMI]; Social Liberal Party or PSL [Ahmed KHELIL];
Socialist Forces Front or FFS [Hocine Ait AHMED, secretary general
(self-exile in Switzerland)]; Union for Democracy and Liberty
[Mouley BOUKHALAFA]; Workers Party or PT [Louisa HANOUN]

note:  a party law banning political parties based on religion was
enacted in March 1997

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: ABEDA, AfDB, AFESD, AL,
AMF, AMU, CCC, ECA, FAO, G-15, G-19, G-24, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO,
ICC, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO,
Inmarsat, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO, ITU, MONUC, NAM, OAPEC,
OAS (observer), OAU, OIC, OPCW, OPEC, OSCE (partner), UN, UNCTAD,
UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNMEE, UPU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO
(observer)

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Idriss JAZAIRY

chancery:  2118 Kalorama Road NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone:  [1] (202) 265-2800

FAX:  [1] (202) 667-2174

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Janet A. SANDERSON

embassy:  4 Chemin Cheikh Bachir El-Ibrahimi, Algiers

mailing address:  B. P. Box 549, Alger-Gare, 16000 Algiers

telephone:  [213] (21) 69-11-86, 69-12-55, 69-18-54, 69-38-75

FAX:  [213] (21) 69-39-79

Flag description: two equal vertical bands of green (hoist side) and
white; a red, five-pointed star within a red crescent centered over
the two-color boundary; the crescent, star, and color green are
traditional symbols of Islam (the state religion)



Algeria    Economy

Economy - overview: The hydrocarbons sector is the backbone of the
economy, accounting for roughly 60% of budget revenues, 30% of GDP,
and over 95% of export earnings. Algeria has the fifth-largest
reserves of natural gas in the world and is the second largest gas
exporter; it ranks fourteenth for oil reserves. Algiers' efforts to
reform one of the most centrally planned economies in the Arab world
stalled in 1992 as the country became embroiled in political
turmoil. Algeria's financial and economic indicators improved during
the mid-1990s, in part because of policy reforms supported by the
IMF and debt rescheduling from the Paris Club. Algeria's finances in
2000 benefited from the spike in oil prices and the government's
tight fiscal policy, leading to a large increase in the trade
surplus, the near tripling of foreign exchange reserves, and
reduction in foreign debt. The government continues efforts to
diversify the economy by attracting foreign and domestic investment
outside the energy sector, but has had little success in reducing
high unemployment and improving living standards.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $171 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 5% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $5,500 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  11%

industry:  37%

services:  52% (1999 est.)

Population below poverty line: 23% (1999 est.)

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:
2.8%

highest 10%:  26.8% (1995)

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 2% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 9.1 million (2000 est.)

Labor force - by occupation: government 29%, agriculture 25%,
construction and public works 15%, industry 11%, other 20% (1996
est.)

Unemployment rate: 30% (1999 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $15.8 billion

expenditures:  $16 billion, including capital expenditures of $5.3
billion (2001 est.)

Industries: petroleum, natural gas, light industries, mining,
electrical, petrochemical, food processing

Industrial production growth rate: 7% (1999 est.)

Electricity - production: 23.215 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  99.14%

hydro:  0.86%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 21.613 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 307 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 330 million kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: wheat, barley, oats, grapes, olives, citrus,
fruits; sheep, cattle

Exports: $19.6 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Exports - commodities: petroleum, natural gas, and petroleum
products 97%

Exports - partners: Italy 22%, US 15%, France 12%, Spain 11%, Brazil
8%, Netherlands 5% (1999)

Imports: $9.2 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Imports - commodities: capital goods, food and beverages, consumer
goods

Imports - partners: France 30%, Italy 9%, Germany 7%, Spain 6%, US
5%, Turkey 5% (1999)

Debt - external: $25 billion (2000 est.)

Economic aid - recipient: $100 million (1999 est.)

Currency: Algerian dinar (DZD)

Currency code: DZD

Exchange rates: Algerian dinars per US dollar - 74,813 (January
2001), 75.260 (2000), 66.574 (1999), 58.739 (1998), 57.707 (1997),
54.749 (1996)

Fiscal year: calendar year



Algeria    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 2.3 million (1998)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 33,500 (1999)

Telephone system: general assessment:  telephone density in Algeria
is very low, not exceeding five telephones per 100 persons; the
number of fixed main lines has been increased in the last few years
to a little more than 2,000,000, but only about two-thirds of these
have subscribers; much of the infrastructure is outdated and
inefficient

domestic:  good service in north but sparse in south; domestic
satellite system with 12 earth stations (20 additional domestic
earth stations are planned)

international:  5 submarine cables; microwave radio relay to Italy,
France, Spain, Morocco, and Tunisia; coaxial cable to Morocco and
Tunisia; participant in Medarabtel; satellite earth stations - 2
Intelsat (1 Atlantic Ocean and 1 Indian Ocean), 1 Intersputnik, and
1 Arabsat (1998)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 25, FM 1, shortwave 8 (1999)

Radios: 7.1 million (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 46 (plus 216 repeaters) (1995)

Televisions: 3.1 million (1997)

Internet country code: .dz

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 2 (2000)

Internet users: 20,000 (2000)



Algeria    Transportation

Railways: total:  4,820 km

standard gauge:  3,664 km 1.435-m gauge (301 km electrified; 215 km
double track)

narrow gauge:  1,156 km 1.055-m gauge (1996)

Highways: total:  104,000 km

paved:  71,656 km (including 640 km of expressways)

unpaved:  32,344 km (1996 est.)

Waterways: none

Pipelines: crude oil 6,612 km; petroleum products 298 km; natural
gas 2,948 km

Ports and harbors: Algiers, Annaba, Arzew, Bejaia, Beni Saf, Dellys,
Djendjene, Ghazaouet, Jijel, Mostaganem, Oran, Skikda, Tenes

Merchant marine: total:  73 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
896,911 GRT/1,047,991 DWT

ships by type:  bulk 9, cargo 25, chemical tanker 7, liquefied gas
10, petroleum tanker 4, roll on/roll off 13, short-sea passenger 4,
specialized tanker 1 (2000 est.)

Airports: 135 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  51

over 3,047 m:  9

2,438 to 3,047 m:  24

1,524 to 2,437 m:  12

914 to 1,523 m:  5

under 914 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  84

2,438 to 3,047 m:  3

1,524 to 2,437 m:  23

914 to 1,523 m:  40

under 914 m:  18 (2000 est.)

Heliports: 1 (2000 est.)



Algeria    Military

Military branches: National Popular Army, Navy, Air Force,
Territorial Air Defense, National Gendarmerie

Military manpower - military age: 19 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  8,794,622 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
5,383,770 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  388,939
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $1.87 billion (FY99)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 4.1% (FY99)



Algeria    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: part of southeastern region claimed by
Libya; Algeria supports exiled West Saharan Polisario Front and
rejects Moroccan administration of Western Sahara

======================================================================

@American Samoa





American Samoa    Introduction

Background: Settled as early as 1000 B. C., Samoa was "discovered"
by European explorers in the 18th century. International rivalries
in the latter half of the 19th century were settled by an 1899
treaty in which Germany and the US divided the Samoan archipelago.
The US formally occupied its portion - a smaller group of eastern
islands with the excellent harbor of Pago Pago - the following year.



American Samoa    Geography

Location: Oceania, group of islands in the South Pacific Ocean,
about one-half of the way from Hawaii to New Zealand

Geographic coordinates: 14 20 S, 170 00 W

Map references: Oceania

Area: total:  199 sq km

land:  199 sq km

water:  0 sq km

note:  includes Rose Island and Swains Island

Area - comparative: slightly larger than Washington, DC

Land boundaries: 0 km

Coastline: 116 km

Maritime claims: exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: tropical marine, moderated by southeast trade winds; annual
rainfall averages about 3 m; rainy season from November to April,
dry season from May to October; little seasonal temperature variation

Terrain: five volcanic islands with rugged peaks and limited coastal
plains, two coral atolls (Rose Island, Swains Island)

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Pacific Ocean 0 m

highest point:  Lata 966 m

Natural resources: pumice, pumicite

Land use: arable land:  5%

permanent crops:  10%

permanent pastures:  0%

forests and woodland:  70%

other:  15% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: NA sq km

Natural hazards: typhoons common from December to March

Environment - current issues: limited natural fresh water resources;
the water division of the government has spent substantial funds in
the past few years to improve water catchments and pipelines

Geography - note: Pago Pago has one of the best natural deepwater
harbors in the South Pacific Ocean, sheltered by shape from rough
seas and protected by peripheral mountains from high winds;
strategic location in the South Pacific Ocean



American Samoa    People

Population: 67,084 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  38.44% (male 13,278; female 12,512)

15-64 years:  56.57% (male 18,784; female 19,163)

65 years and over:  4.99% (male 1,779; female 1,568) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 2.42% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 24.88 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 4.31 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 3.58 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.06 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.06 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  0.98 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  1.13 male(s)/female

total population:  1.02 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 10.36 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  75.32 years

male:  70.89 years

female:  80.02 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 3.5 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: NA%

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: NA

HIV/AIDS - deaths: NA

Nationality: noun:  American Samoan(s)

adjective:  American Samoan

Ethnic groups: Samoan (Polynesian) 89%, Caucasian 2%, Tongan 4%,
other 5%

Religions: Christian Congregationalist 50%, Roman Catholic 20%,
Protestant and other 30%

Languages: Samoan (closely related to Hawaiian and other Polynesian
languages), English

note:  most people are bilingual

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  97%

male:  98%

female:  97% (1980 est.)



American Samoa    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Territory of American Samoa

conventional short form:  American Samoa

abbreviation:  AS

Dependency status: unincorporated and unorganized territory of the
US; administered by the Office of Insular Affairs, US Department of
the Interior

Government type: NA

Capital: Pago Pago

Administrative divisions: none (territory of the US); there are no
first-order administrative divisions as defined by the US
Government, but there are three districts and two islands* at the
second order; Eastern, Manu'a, Rose Island*, Swains Island*, Western

Independence: none (territory of the US)

National holiday: Flag Day, 17 April (1900)

Constitution: ratified 1966, in effect 1967

Legal system: NA

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  President George W. BUSH of the
US (since 20 January 2001) and Vice President Richard B. CHENEY
(since 20 January 2001)

head of government:  Governor Tauese P. SUNIA (since 3 January 1997)
and Lieutenant Governor Togiola TULAFONO (since 3 January 1997)

cabinet:  NA

elections:  US president and vice president elected on the same
ticket for four-year terms; governor and lieutenant governor elected
on the same ticket by popular vote for four-year terms; election
last held 7 November 2000 (next to be held NA November 2004)

election results:  Tauese P. SUNIA reelected governor; percent of
vote - Tauese P. SUNIA (Democrat) 50.7%, Lealaifuaneva Peter REID
(independent) 47.8%

Legislative branch: bicameral Fono or Legislative Assembly consists
of the House of Representatives (21 seats - 20 of which are elected
by popular vote and 1 is an appointed, nonvoting delegate from
Swains Island; members serve two-year terms) and the Senate (18
seats; members are elected from local chiefs and serve four-year
terms)

elections:  House of Representatives - last held 7 November 2000
(next to be held NA November 2002); Senate - last held 7 November
2000 (next to be held NA November 2004)

election results:  House of Representatives - percent of vote by
party - NA%; seats by party - NA; Senate - percent of vote by party
- NA%; seats by party - NA; note - only independents elected

note:  American Samoa elects one delegate to the US House of
Representatives; election last held 7 November 2000 (next to be held
NA November 2002); results - Eni F. H. FALEOMAVAEGA (Democrat)
reelected as delegate for a sixth term

Judicial branch: High Court (chief justice and associate justices
are appointed by the US Secretary of the Interior)

Political parties and leaders: Democratic Party [leader NA];
Republican Party [leader NA]

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: ESCAP (associate),
Interpol (subbureau), IOC, SPC

Diplomatic representation in the US: none (territory of the US)

Diplomatic representation from the US: none (territory of the US)

Flag description: blue, with a white triangle edged in red that is
based on the outer side and extends to the hoist side; a brown and
white American bald eagle flying toward the hoist side is carrying
two traditional Samoan symbols of authority, a staff and a war club



American Samoa    Economy

Economy - overview: This is a traditional Polynesian economy in
which more than 90% of the land is communally owned. Economic
activity is strongly linked to the US, with which American Samoa
conducts the great bulk of its foreign trade. Tuna fishing and tuna
processing plants are the backbone of the private sector, with
canned tuna the primary export. Transfers from the US Government add
substantially to American Samoa's economic well-being. Attempts by
the government to develop a larger and broader economy are
restrained by Samoa's remote location, its limited transportation,
and its devastating hurricanes. Tourism, a developing sector, has
been held back by the recurring financial difficulties in East Asia.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $500 million (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: NA%

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $8,000 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  NA%

industry:  NA%

services:  NA%

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): NA%

Labor force: 14,000 (1996)

Labor force - by occupation: government 33%, tuna canneries 34%,
other 33% (1990)

Unemployment rate: 16% (1993)

Budget: revenues:  $121 million (37% in local revenue and 63% in US
grants)

expenditures:  $127 million, including capital expenditures of $NA
(FY96/97)

Industries: tuna canneries (largely dependent on foreign fishing
vessels), handicrafts

Industrial production growth rate: NA%

Electricity - production: 130 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  100%

hydro:  0%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 120.9 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: bananas, coconuts, vegetables, taro,
breadfruit, yams, copra, pineapples, papayas; dairy products,
livestock

Exports: $500 million (1998)

Exports - commodities: canned tuna 93%

Exports - partners: US 99.6%

Imports: $471 million (1996)

Imports - commodities: materials for canneries 56%, food 8%,
petroleum products 7%, machinery and parts 6%

Imports - partners: US 62%, Japan 9%, NZ 7%, Australia 11%, Fiji 4%,
other 7%

Debt - external: $NA

Economic aid - recipient: important financial support from the US,
more than $40 million in 1994

Currency: US dollar (USD)

Currency code: USD

Exchange rates: the US dollar is used

Fiscal year: 1 October - 30 September



American Samoa    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 13,000 (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 2,550 (1997)

Telephone system: general assessment:  NA

domestic:  good telex, telegraph, facsimile and cellular telephone
services; domestic satellite system with 1 Comsat earth station

international:  satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (Pacific Ocean)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 1, FM 1, shortwave 0 (1998)

Radios: 57,000 (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 1 (1997)

Televisions: 14,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .as

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 1 (2000)

Internet users: NA



American Samoa    Transportation

Railways: 0 km

Highways: total:  350 km

paved:  150 km

unpaved:  200 km

Waterways: none

Ports and harbors: Aunu'u (new construction), Auasi, Faleosao, Ofu,
Pago Pago, Ta'u

Merchant marine: none (2000 est.)

Airports: 4 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  2

2,438 to 3,047 m:  1

under 914 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  2

under 914 m:  2 (2000 est.)



American Samoa    Military

Military - note: defense is the responsibility of the US



American Samoa    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

======================================================================

@Andorra




Andorra    Introduction

Background: Long isolated and impoverished, mountainous Andorra has
achieved considerable prosperity since World War II through its
tourist industry. Many immigrants (legal and illegal) are attracted
to the thriving economy with its lack of income taxes.



Andorra    Geography

Location: Southwestern Europe, between France and Spain

Geographic coordinates: 42 30 N, 1 30 E

Map references: Europe

Area: total:  468 sq km

land:  468 sq km

water:  0 sq km

Area - comparative: 2.5 times the size of Washington, DC

Land boundaries: total:  120.3 km

border countries:  France 56.6 km, Spain 63.7 km

Coastline: 0 km (landlocked)

Maritime claims: none (landlocked)

Climate: temperate; snowy, cold winters and warm, dry summers

Terrain: rugged mountains dissected by narrow valleys

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Riu Runer 840 m

highest point:  Coma Pedrosa 2,946 m

Natural resources: hydropower, mineral water, timber, iron ore, lead

Land use: arable land:  4%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  45%

forests and woodland:  35%

other:  16% (1998 est.)

Irrigated land: NA sq km

Natural hazards: snowslides, avalanches

Environment - current issues: deforestation; overgrazing of mountain
meadows contributes to soil erosion; air pollution; wastewater
treatment and solid waste disposal

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Hazardous Wastes

signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Geography - note: landlocked



Andorra    People

Population: 67,627 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  15.29% (male 5,425; female 4,917)

15-64 years:  72.06% (male 25,654; female 23,078)

65 years and over:  12.65% (male 4,299; female 4,254) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 1.17% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 10.29 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 5.41 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 6.82 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.07 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.1 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1.11 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  1.01 male(s)/female

total population:  1.1 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 4.08 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  83.47 years

male:  80.57 years

female:  86.57 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 1.25 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: NA%

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: NA

HIV/AIDS - deaths: NA

Nationality: noun:  Andorran(s)

adjective:  Andorran

Ethnic groups: Spanish 43%, Andorran 33%, Portuguese 11%, French 7%,
other 6% (1998)

Religions: Roman Catholic (predominant)

Languages: Catalan (official), French, Castilian

Literacy: definition:  NA

total population:  100%

male:  NA%

female:  NA%



Andorra    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Principality of Andorra

conventional short form:  Andorra

local long form:  Principat d'Andorra

local short form:  Andorra

Government type: parliamentary democracy (since March 1993) that
retains as its heads of state a coprincipality; the two princes are
the president of France and bishop of Seo de Urgel, Spain, who are
represented locally by coprinces' representatives

Capital: Andorra la Vella

Administrative divisions: 7 parishes (parroquies, singular -
parroquia); Andorra la Vella, Canillo, Encamp, La Massana,
Escaldes-Engordany, Ordino, Sant Julia de Loria

Independence: 1278 (was formed under the joint suzerainty of France
and Spain)

National holiday: Our Lady of Meritxell Day, 8 September (1278)

Constitution: Andorra's first written constitution was drafted in
1991; approved by referendum 14 March 1993; came into force 4 May
1993

Legal system: based on French and Spanish civil codes; no judicial
review of legislative acts; has not accepted compulsory ICJ
jurisdiction

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  French Coprince Jacques CHIRAC
(since 17 May 1995), represented by Frederic de SAINT-SERNIN (since
NA); Spanish Coprince Episcopal Monseigneur Joan MARTI Alanis (since
31 January 1971), represented by Nemesi MARQUES OSTE (since NA)

head of government:  Executive Council President Marc FORNE Molne
(since 21 December 1994)

cabinet:  Executive Council or Govern designated by the Executive
Council president

elections:  Executive Council president elected by the General
Council and formally appointed by the coprinces for a four-year
term; election last held 16 February 1997 (next to be held NA 2001)

election results:  Marc FORNE Molne elected executive council
president; percent of General Council vote - 64%

Legislative branch: unicameral General Council of the Valleys or
Consell General de las Valls (28 seats; members are elected by
direct popular vote, 14 from a single national constituency and 14
to represent each of the 7 parishes; members serve four-year terms)

elections:  last held 16 February 1997 (next to be held NA February
2001)

election results:  percent of vote by party - UL 57%, AND 21%, IDN
7%, ND 7%, other 8%; seats by party - UL 16, AND 6, ND 2, IDN 2, UPO
2

Judicial branch: Tribunal of Judges or Tribunal de Batlles; Tribunal
of the Courts or Tribunal de Corts; Supreme Court of Justice of
Andorra or Tribunal Superior de Justicia d'Andorra; Supreme Council
of Justice or Consell Superior de la Justicia; Fiscal Ministry or
Ministeri Fiscal; Constitutional Tribunal or Tribunal Constitucional

Political parties and leaders: Liberal Union or UL [Marc Forne
MOLNE] (renamed Liberal Party of Andorra or PLA); National
Democratic Group or AND [Ladislau BARO SOLA]; National Democratic
Initiative or IDN [Vincenc MATEU Zamora]; New Democracy or ND [Jaume
BARTOMEU Cassany]; Union of the People of Ordino (Unio Parroquial
d'Ordino) or UPO [Simo DURO Coma]

note:  there are two other small parties

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: CCC, CE, ECE, ICAO, ICRM,
IFRCS, Interpol, IOC, ITU, OSCE, UN, UNESCO, WHO, WIPO, WToO, WTrO
(observer)

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
(vacant)

chancery:  2 United Nations Plaza, 25th Floor, New York, NY 10017

telephone:  [1] (212) 750-8064

FAX:  [1] (212) 750-6630

Diplomatic representation from the US: the US does not have an
embassy in Andorra; the US Ambassador to Spain is accredited to
Andorra; US interests in Andorra are represented by the Consulate
General's office in Barcelona (Spain); mailing address: Paseo Reina
Elisenda, 23, 08034 Barcelona, Spain; telephone: (3493) 280-2227;
FAX: (3493) 205-7705

Flag description: three equal vertical bands of blue (hoist side),
yellow, and red with the national coat of arms centered in the
yellow band; the coat of arms features a quartered shield; similar
to the flags of Chad and Romania, which do not have a national coat
of arms in the center, and the flag of Moldova, which does bear a
national emblem



Andorra    Economy

Economy - overview: Tourism, the mainstay of Andorra's tiny,
well-to-do economy, accounts for roughly 80% of GDP. An estimated 9
million tourists visit annually, attracted by Andorra's duty-free
status and by its summer and winter resorts. Andorra's comparative
advantage has recently eroded as the economies of neighboring France
and Spain have been opened up, providing broader availability of
goods and lower tariffs. The banking sector, with its "tax haven"
status, also contributes substantially to the economy. Agricultural
production is limited by a scarcity of arable land, and most food
has to be imported. The principal livestock activity is sheep
raising. Manufacturing output consists mainly of cigarettes, cigars,
and furniture. Andorra is a member of the EU Customs Union and is
treated as an EU member for trade in manufactured goods (no tariffs)
and as a non-EU member for agricultural products.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $1.2 billion (1996 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: NA%

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $18,000 (1996 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  NA%

industry:  NA%

services:  NA%

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 1.62% (1998)

Labor force: 30,787 salaried employees (1998)

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture 1%, industry 21%, services
78% (1998)

Unemployment rate: 0%

Budget: revenues:  $385 million

expenditures:  $342 million, including capital expenditures of $NA
(1997)

Industries: tourism (particularly skiing), cattle raising, timber,
tobacco, banking

Industrial production growth rate: NA%

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  NA%

hydro:  NA%

nuclear:  NA%

other:  NA%

Electricity - consumption: NA kWh

Electricity - exports: NA kWh

Electricity - imports: NA kWh

note:  most electricity supplied by Spain and France; Andorra
generates a small amount of hydropower

Agriculture - products: small quantities of tobacco, rye, wheat,
barley, oats, vegetables; sheep

Exports: $58 million (f.o.b., 1998)

Exports - commodities: tobacco products, furniture

Exports - partners: France 34%, Spain 58% (1998)

Imports: $1.077 billion (c.i.f., 1998)

Imports - commodities: consumer goods, food, electricity

Imports - partners: Spain 48%, France 35%, US 2.3% (1998)

Debt - external: $NA

Economic aid - recipient: none

Currency: French franc (FRF); Spanish peseta (ESP); euro (EUR)

Currency code: FRF; ESP; EUR

Exchange rates: euros per US dollar - 1.0659 (January 2001), 1.0854
(2000), 0.9386 (1999); French francs per US dollar - 5.8995 (1998),
5.8367 (1997), 5.1155 (1996); Spanish pesetas per US dollar - 149.40
(1998), 146.41 (1997), 126.66 (1996)

Fiscal year: calendar year



Andorra    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 32,946 (December 1998)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 14,117 (December 1998)

Telephone system: general assessment:  NA

domestic:  modern system with microwave radio relay connections
between exchanges

international:  landline circuits to France and Spain

Radio broadcast stations: AM 0, FM 15, shortwave 0 (1998)

Radios: 16,000 (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 0 (1997)

Televisions: 27,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .ad

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 1 (2000)

Internet users: 5,000 (2000)



Andorra    Transportation

Railways: 0 km

Highways: total:  269 km

paved:  198 km

unpaved:  71 km (1994 est.)

Waterways: none

Ports and harbors: none

Airports: none (2000 est.)



Andorra    Military

Military - note: defense is the responsibility of France and Spain



Andorra    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

======================================================================

@Angola




Angola    Introduction

Background: Civil war has been the norm in Angola since independence
from Portugal in 1975. A 1994 peace accord between the government
and the National Union for the Total Independence of Angola (UNITA)
provided for the integration of former UNITA insurgents into the
government and armed forces. A national unity government was
installed in April of 1997, but serious fighting resumed in late
1998, rendering hundreds of thousands of people homeless. Up to 1.5
million lives may have been lost in fighting over the past quarter
century.



Angola    Geography

Location: Southern Africa, bordering the South Atlantic Ocean,
between Namibia and Democratic Republic of the Congo

Geographic coordinates: 12 30 S, 18 30 E

Map references: Africa

Area: total:  1,246,700 sq km

land:  1,246,700 sq km

water:  0 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly less than twice the size of Texas

Land boundaries: total:  5,198 km

border countries:  Democratic Republic of the Congo 2,511 km (of
which 220 km is the boundary of discontiguous Cabinda Province),
Republic of the Congo 201 km, Namibia 1,376 km, Zambia 1,110 km

Coastline: 1,600 km

Maritime claims: contiguous zone:  24 NM

exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: semiarid in south and along coast to Luanda; north has
cool, dry season (May to October) and hot, rainy season (November to
April)

Terrain: narrow coastal plain rises abruptly to vast interior plateau

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Atlantic Ocean 0 m

highest point:  Morro de Moco 2,620 m

Natural resources: petroleum, diamonds, iron ore, phosphates,
copper, feldspar, gold, bauxite, uranium

Land use: arable land:  2%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  23%

forests and woodland:  43%

other:  32% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 750 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: locally heavy rainfall causes periodic flooding on
the plateau

Environment - current issues: overuse of pastures and subsequent
soil erosion attributable to population pressures; desertification;
deforestation of tropical rain forest, in response to both
international demand for tropical timber and to domestic use as
fuel, resulting in loss of biodiversity; soil erosion contributing
to water pollution and siltation of rivers and dams; inadequate
supplies of potable water

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Desertification, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer
Protection

signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Geography - note: Cabinda is separated from rest of country by the
Democratic Republic of the Congo



Angola    People

Population: 10,366,031 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  43.31% (male 2,266,870; female 2,222,262)

15-64 years:  53.98% (male 2,847,089; female 2,748,091)

65 years and over:  2.71% (male 127,798; female 153,921) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 2.15% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 46.54 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 24.68 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: -0.34 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.02 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.83 male(s)/female

total population:  1.02 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 193.72 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  38.59 years

male:  37.36 years

female:  39.87 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 6.48 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 2.78% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 160,000 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: 15,000 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Angolan(s)

adjective:  Angolan

Ethnic groups: Ovimbundu 37%, Kimbundu 25%, Bakongo 13%, mestico
(mixed European and Native African) 2%, European 1%, other 22%

Religions: indigenous beliefs 47%, Roman Catholic 38%, Protestant
15% (1998 est.)

Languages: Portuguese (official), Bantu and other African languages

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  42%

male:  56%

female:  28% (1998 est.)



Angola    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Republic of Angola

conventional short form:  Angola

local long form:  Republica de Angola

local short form:  Angola

former:  People's Republic of Angola

Government type: transitional government, nominally a multiparty
democracy with a strong presidential system

Capital: Luanda

Administrative divisions: 18 provinces (provincias, singular -
provincia); Bengo, Benguela, Bie, Cabinda, Cuando Cubango, Cuanza
Norte, Cuanza Sul, Cunene, Huambo, Huila, Luanda, Lunda Norte, Lunda
Sul, Malanje, Moxico, Namibe, Uige, Zaire

Independence: 11 November 1975 (from Portugal)

National holiday: Independence Day, 11 November (1975)

Constitution: 11 November 1975; revised 7 January 1978, 11 August
1980, 6 March 1991, and 26 August 1992

Legal system: based on Portuguese civil law system and customary
law; recently modified to accommodate political pluralism and
increased use of free markets

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Jose Eduardo DOS SANTOS
(since 21 September 1979); note - the president is both chief of
state and head of government

head of government:  President Jose Eduardo DOS SANTOS (since 21
September 1979); note - the president is both chief of state and
head of government

cabinet:  Council of Ministers appointed by the president

elections:  President DOS SANTOS originally elected (in 1979)
without opposition under a one-party system and stood for reelection
in Angola's first multiparty elections 29-30 September 1992 (next to
be held NA)

election results:  DOS SANTOS 49.6%, Jonas SAVIMBI 40.1%, making a
run-off election necessary; the run-off was not held and SAVIMBI's
National Union for the Total Independence of Angola (UNITA)
repudiated the results of the first election; the civil war resumed

Legislative branch: unicameral National Assembly or Assembleia
Nacional (220 seats; members elected by proportional vote to serve
four-year terms)

elections:  last held 29-30 September 1992 (next to be held NA)

election results:  percent of vote by party - MPLA 54%, UNITA 34%,
others 12%; seats by party - MPLA 129, UNITA 70, PRS 6, FNLA 5, PLD
3, others 7

Judicial branch: Supreme Court or Tribunal da Relacao (judges are
appointed by the president)

Political parties and leaders: Liberal Democratic Party or PLD
[Analia de Victoria PEREIRA]; National Front for the Liberation of
Angola or FNLA [disputed leadership: Lucas NGONDA, Holden ROBERTO];
National Union for the Total Independence of Angola or UNITA [Jonas
SAVIMBI], largest opposition party has engaged in years of armed
resistance; Popular Movement for the Liberation of Angola or MPLA
[Jose Eduardo DOS SANTOS] ruling party in power since 1975; Social
Renewal Party or PRS [disputed leadership: Eduardo KUANGANA, Antonio
MUACHICUNGO]; UNITA-Renovada [Eugenio NGOLO "Manuvakola", leader]

note:  about a dozen minor parties participated in the 1992
elections but won few seats and have little influence in the
National Assembly

Political pressure groups and leaders: Front for the Liberation of
the Enclave of Cabinda or FLEC [N'zita Henriques TIAGO; Antonio
Bento BEMBE]

note:  FLEC is waging a small-scale, highly factionalized, armed
struggle for the independence of Cabinda Province

International organization participation: ACP, AfDB, CCC, CEEAC,
ECA, FAO, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC,
IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM, ITU, NAM, OAS
(observer), OAU, SADC, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WFTU, WHO,
WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Josefina Perpetua Pitra DIAKIDI

chancery:  1615 M Street, NW, Suite 900, Washington, DC 20036

telephone:  [1] (202) 785-1156

FAX:  [1] (202) 785-1258

consulate(s) general:  New York

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Joseph G. SULLIVAN

embassy:  number 32 Rua Houari Boumeddienne, Luanda

mailing address:  international mail: Caixa Postal 6484, Luanda;
pouch: American Embassy Luanda, Department of State, Washington, DC
20521-2550

telephone:  [244] (2) 345-481, 346-418

FAX:  [244] (2) 346-924

Flag description: two equal horizontal bands of red (top) and black
with a centered yellow emblem consisting of a five-pointed star
within half a cogwheel crossed by a machete (in the style of a
hammer and sickle)



Angola    Economy

Economy - overview: Angola is an economy in disarray because of a
quarter century of nearly continuous warfare. Despite its abundant
natural resources, output per capita is among the world's lowest.
Subsistence agriculture provides the main livelihood for 85% of the
population. Oil production and the supporting activities are vital
to the economy, contributing about 45% to GDP and 90% of exports.
Violence continues, millions of land mines remain, and many farmers
are reluctant to return to their fields. As a result, much of the
country's food must still be imported. To fully take advantage of
its rich resources - gold, diamonds, extensive forests, Atlantic
fisheries, and large oil deposits - Angola will need to end its
conflict and continue reforming government policies. Despite the
increase in the pace of civil warfare in late 1998, the economy grew
by an estimated 5% in 2000. The government introduced new currency
denominations in 1999, including 1 and 5 kwanza notes. Internal
strife discourages investment outside of the petroleum sector, which
is producing roughly 800,000 barrels of oil per day. Angola has
entered into a Staff Monitored Program (SMP) with the IMF. Continued
growth depends on sharp cuts in inflation, further economic reform,
and a lessening of fighting.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $10.1 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 4.9% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $1,000 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  7%

industry:  60%

services:  33% (1999 est.)

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 325% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 5 million (1997 est.)

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture 85%, industry and services
15% (1997 est.)

Unemployment rate: extensive unemployment and underemployment
affecting more than half the population (2000 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $928 million

expenditures:  $2.5 billion, including capital expenditures of $963
million (1992 est.)

Industries: petroleum; diamonds, iron ore, phosphates, feldspar,
bauxite, uranium, and gold; cement; basic metal products; fish
processing; food processing; brewing; tobacco products; sugar;
textiles

Industrial production growth rate: NA%

Electricity - production: 1.475 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  32.2%

hydro:  67.8%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 1.372 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: bananas, sugarcane, coffee, sisal, corn,
cotton, manioc (tapioca), tobacco, vegetables, plantains; livestock;
forest products; fish

Exports: $7.8 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Exports - commodities: crude oil 90%, diamonds, refined petroleum
products, gas, coffee, sisal, fish and fish products, timber, cotton

Exports - partners: US 54%, South Korea 14%, Benelux 11%, China 7%,
Taiwan 6% (1999)

Imports: $2.5 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Imports - commodities: machinery and electrical equipment, vehicles
and spare parts; medicines, food, textiles, military goods

Imports - partners: South Korea 16%, Portugal 15%, US 13%, South
Africa 10%, France 8% (1999)

Debt - external: $10.8 billion (2000 est.)

Economic aid - recipient: $493.1 million (1995)

Currency: kwanza (AOA)

Currency code: AOA

Exchange rates: kwanza per US dollar - 17,910,800 (January 2001),
10,041,000 (2000), 2,790,706 (1999), 392,824 (1998), 229,040 (1997),
128,029 (1996); note - in December 1999 the kwanza was revalued with
six zeroes dropped off the old value

Fiscal year: calendar year



Angola    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 62,000 (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 7,052 (1997)

Telephone system: general assessment:  telephone service limited
mostly to government and business use; HF radiotelephone used
extensively for military links

domestic:  limited system of wire, microwave radio relay, and
tropospheric scatter

international:  satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat (Atlantic
Ocean)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 34, FM 7, shortwave 9 (1999)

Radios: 630,000 (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 7 (1999)

Televisions: 150,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .ao

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 1 (2000)

Internet users: 12,000 (1999)



Angola    Transportation

Railways: total:  2,771 km (inland, much of the track is unusable
because of land mines still in place from the civil war)

narrow gauge:  2,648 km 1.067-m gauge; 123 km 0.600-m gauge (2000)

Highways: total:  76,626 km

paved:  19,156 km

unpaved:  57,470 km (1997)

Waterways: 1,295 km

Pipelines: crude oil 179 km

Ports and harbors: Ambriz, Cabinda, Lobito, Luanda, Malongo,
Mocamedes, Namibe, Porto Amboim, Soyo

Merchant marine: total:  9 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 39,305
GRT/63,067 DWT

ships by type:  cargo 8, petroleum tanker 1 (2000 est.)

Airports: 247 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  31

over 3,047 m:  4

2,438 to 3,047 m:  8

1,524 to 2,437 m:  12

914 to 1,523 m:  6

under 914 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  216

over 3,047 m:  2

2,438 to 3,047 m:  5

1,524 to 2,437 m:  30

914 to 1,523 m:  96

under 914 m:  83 (2000 est.)



Angola    Military

Military branches: Army, Navy, Air and Air Defense Forces, National
Police Force

Military manpower - military age: 18 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  2,480,016 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
1,246,224 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  103,807
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $1.2 billion (FY97)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 22% (1999)



Angola    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

Illicit drugs: increasingly used as a transshipment point for
cocaine and heroin destined for Western Europe and other African
states

======================================================================

@Anguilla





Anguilla    Introduction

Background: Colonized by English settlers from Saint Kitts in 1650,
Anguilla was administered by Great Britain until the early 19th
century, when the island - against the wishes of the inhabitants -
was incorporated into a single British dependency along with Saint
Kitts and Nevis. Several attempts at separation failed. In 1971, two
years after a revolt, Anguilla was finally allowed to secede; this
arrangement was formally recognized in 1980 with Anguilla becoming a
separate British dependency.



Anguilla    Geography

Location: Caribbean, island in the Caribbean Sea, east of Puerto Rico

Geographic coordinates: 18 15 N, 63 10 W

Map references: Central America and the Caribbean

Area: total:  91 sq km

land:  91 sq km

water:  0 sq km

Area - comparative: about half the size of Washington, DC

Land boundaries: 0 km

Coastline: 61 km

Maritime claims: exclusive fishing zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  3 NM

Climate: tropical; moderated by northeast trade winds

Terrain: flat and low-lying island of coral and limestone

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Caribbean Sea 0 m

highest point:  Crocus Hill 65 m

Natural resources: salt, fish, lobster

Land use: arable land:  0%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  0%

forests and woodland:  0%

other:  100% (mostly rock with sparse scrub oak, few trees, some
commercial salt ponds)

Irrigated land: NA sq km

Natural hazards: frequent hurricanes and other tropical storms (July
to October)

Environment - current issues: supplies of potable water sometimes
cannot meet increasing demand largely because of poor distribution
system



Anguilla    People

Population: 12,132 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  25.55% (male 1,574; female 1,526)

15-64 years:  67.47% (male 4,200; female 3,985)

65 years and over:  6.98% (male 376; female 471) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 2.68% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 15.17 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 5.61 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 17.23 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.03 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.03 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.8 male(s)/female

total population:  1.03 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 24.56 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  76.31 years

male:  73.41 years

female:  79.29 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 1.79 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: NA%

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: NA

HIV/AIDS - deaths: NA

Nationality: noun:  Anguillan(s)

adjective:  Anguillan

Ethnic groups: black

Religions: Anglican 40%, Methodist 33%, Seventh-Day Adventist 7%,
Baptist 5%, Roman Catholic 3%, other 12%

Languages: English (official)

Literacy: definition:  age 12 and over can read and write

total population:  95%

male:  95%

female:  95% (1984 est.)



Anguilla    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  none

conventional short form:  Anguilla

Dependency status: overseas territory of the UK

Government type: NA

Capital: The Valley

Administrative divisions: none (overseas territory of the UK)

Independence: none (overseas territory of the UK)

National holiday: Anguilla Day, 30 May

Constitution: Anguilla Constitutional Order 1 April 1982; amended
1990

Legal system: based on English common law

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6
February 1952); represented by Governor Peter JOHNSTON (since NA
February 2000)

head of government:  Chief Minister Osbourne FLEMING (since 3 March
2000)

cabinet:  Executive Council appointed by the governor from among the
elected members of the House of Assembly

elections:  none; the monarch is hereditary; governor appointed by
the monarch; chief minister appointed by the governor from among the
members of the House of Assembly

Legislative branch: unicameral House of Assembly (11 seats total, 7
elected by direct popular vote, 2 ex officio members and 2
appointed; members serve five-year terms)

elections:  last held 3 March 2000 (next to be held NA March 2005)

election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
UF 4, AUM 2, independent 1

Judicial branch: High Court (judge provided by Eastern Caribbean
Supreme Court)

Political parties and leaders: Anguilla United Movement or AUM
[Hubert HUGHES]; The United Front or UF [Osbourne FLEMMING, Victor
BANKS], a coalition of the Anguilla Democratic Party or ADP and the
Anguilla National Alliance or ANA

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: Caricom (associate), CDB,
Interpol (subbureau), OECS (associate), ECLAC (associate)

Diplomatic representation in the US: none (overseas territory of the
UK)

Diplomatic representation from the US: none (overseas territory of
the UK)

Flag description: blue, with the flag of the UK in the upper
hoist-side quadrant and the Anguillan coat of arms centered in the
outer half of the flag; the coat of arms depicts three orange
dolphins in an interlocking circular design on a white background
with blue wavy water below



Anguilla    Economy

Economy - overview: Anguilla has few natural resources, and the
economy depends heavily on luxury tourism, offshore banking, lobster
fishing, and remittances from emigrants. The economy, and especially
the tourism sector, suffered a setback in late 1995 due to the
effects of Hurricane Luis in September but recovered in 1996.
Increased activity in the tourism industry, which has spurred the
growth of the construction sector, has contributed to economic
growth. Anguillan officials have put substantial effort into
developing the offshore financial sector. A comprehensive package of
financial services legislation was enacted in late 1994. In the
medium term, prospects for the economy will depend on the tourism
sector and, therefore, on continuing income growth in the
industrialized nations as well as favorable weather conditions.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $96 million (1999 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 7% (1999 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $8,200 (1999 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  4%

industry:  18%

services:  78% (1997 est.)

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 2.5% (1998 est.)

Labor force: 4,400 (1992)

Labor force - by occupation: commerce 36%, services 29%,
construction 18%, transportation and utilities 10%, manufacturing
3%, agriculture/fishing/forestry/mining 4%

Unemployment rate: 7% (1992 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $20.4 million

expenditures:  $23.3 million, including capital expenditures of $3.8
million (1997 est.)

Industries: tourism, boat building, offshore financial services

Industrial production growth rate: 3.1% (1997 est.)

Electricity - production: NA kWh

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  NA%

hydro:  NA%

nuclear:  NA%

other:  NA%

Electricity - consumption: NA kWh

Agriculture - products: small quantities of tobacco, vegetables;
cattle raising

Exports: $4.5 million (1998)

Exports - commodities: lobster, fish, livestock, salt

Exports - partners: NA

Imports: $57.6 million (1998)

Imports - commodities: NA

Imports - partners: NA

Debt - external: $8.8 million (1998)

Economic aid - recipient: $3.5 million (1995)

Currency: East Caribbean dollar (XCD)

Currency code: XCD

Exchange rates: East Caribbean dollars per US dollar - 2.7000 (fixed
rate since 1976)

Fiscal year: 1 April - 31 March



Anguilla    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 5,000 (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: NA

Telephone system: general assessment:  NA

domestic:  modern internal telephone system

international:  microwave radio relay to island of Saint Martin
(Guadeloupe and Netherlands Antilles)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 5, FM 6, shortwave 1 (1998)

Radios: 3,000 (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 1 (1997)

Televisions: 1,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .ai

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 16 (2000)

Internet users: NA



Anguilla    Transportation

Railways: 0 km

Highways: total:  279 km

paved:  253 km

unpaved:  26 km (1998 est.)

Waterways: none

Ports and harbors: Blowing Point, Road Bay

Merchant marine: none (2000 est.)

Airports: 3 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  1

914 to 1,523 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  2

under 914 m:  2 (2000 est.)



Anguilla    Military

Military - note: defense is the responsibility of the UK



Anguilla    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

Illicit drugs: transshipment point for South American narcotics
destined for the US and Europe

======================================================================

@Antarctica




Antarctica    Introduction

Background: Speculation over the existence of a "southern land" was
not confirmed until the early 1820s when British and American
commercial operators and British and Russian national expeditions
began exploring the Peninsula region and areas south of the
Antarctic Circle. Not until 1838 was it established that Antarctica
was indeed a continent and not just a group of islands. Various
"firsts" were achieved in the early 20th century, including: 1902,
first balloon flight (by British explorer Robert Falcon SCOTT);
1912, first to the South Pole (five Norwegian explorers under Roald
AMUNDSEN); 1928, first fixed-wing aircraft flight (by Australian
adventurer/explorer Sir Hubert WILKINS); 1929, first flight over the
South Pole (by Americans Richard BYRD and Bernt BALCHEN); and 1935,
first transantarctic flight (American Lincoln ELLSWORTH). Following
World War II, there was an upsurge in scientific research on the
continent. A number of countries have set up year-round research
stations on Antarctica. Seven have made territorial claims, but no
other country recognizes these claims. In order to form a legal
framework for the activities of nations on the continent, an
Antarctic Treaty was negotiated that neither denies nor gives
recognition to existing territorial claims; signed in 1959, it
entered into force in 1961.



Antarctica    Geography

Location: continent mostly south of the Antarctic Circle

Geographic coordinates: 90 00 S, 0 00 E

Map references: Antarctic Region

Area: total:  14 million sq km

land:  14 million sq km (280,000 sq km ice-free, 13.72 million sq km
ice-covered) (est.)

note:  fifth-largest continent, following Asia, Africa, North
America, and South America, but larger than Australia and the
subcontinent of Europe

Area - comparative: slightly less than 1.5 times the size of the US

Land boundaries: 0 km

note:  see entry on International disputes

Coastline: 17,968 km

Maritime claims: none; twenty of 27 Antarctic consultative nations
have made no claims to Antarctic territory (although Russia and the
US have reserved the right to do so) and do not recognize the claims
of the other nations; also see the Disputes - international entry

Climate: severe low temperatures vary with latitude, elevation, and
distance from the ocean; East Antarctica is colder than West
Antarctica because of its higher elevation; Antarctic Peninsula has
the most moderate climate; higher temperatures occur in January
along the coast and average slightly below freezing

Terrain: about 98% thick continental ice sheet and 2% barren rock,
with average elevations between 2,000 and 4,000 meters; mountain
ranges up to 5,140 meters; ice-free coastal areas include parts of
southern Victoria Land, Wilkes Land, the Antarctic Peninsula area,
and parts of Ross Island on McMurdo Sound; glaciers form ice shelves
along about half of the coastline, and floating ice shelves
constitute 11% of the area of the continent

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Bentley Subglacial Trench -2,540 m

highest point:  Vinson Massif 5,140 m

note:  the lowest known land point in Antarctica is hidden in the
Bentley Subglacial Trench; at its surface is the deepest ice yet
discovered and the world's lowest elevation not under sea water

Natural resources: iron ore, chromium, copper, gold, nickel,
platinum and other minerals, and coal and hydrocarbons have been
found in small uncommercial quantities; none presently exploited;
krill, finfish, and crab have been taken by commercial fisheries

Land use: arable land:  0%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  0%

forests and woodland:  0%

other:  100% (ice 98%, barren rock 2%)

Irrigated land: 0 sq km (1993)

Natural hazards: katabatic (gravity-driven) winds blow coastward
from the high interior; frequent blizzards form near the foot of the
plateau; cyclonic storms form over the ocean and move clockwise
along the coast; volcanism on Deception Island and isolated areas of
West Antarctica; other seismic activity rare and weak; large
icebergs may calve from ice shelf

Environment - current issues: in 1998, NASA satellite data showed
that the antarctic ozone hole was the largest on record, covering 27
million square kilometers; researchers in 1997 found that increased
ultraviolet light coming through the hole damages the DNA of
icefish, an antarctic fish lacking hemoglobin; ozone depletion
earlier was shown to harm one-celled antarctic marine plants

Geography - note: the coldest, windiest, highest (on average), and
driest continent; during summer, more solar radiation reaches the
surface at the South Pole than is received at the Equator in an
equivalent period; mostly uninhabitable



Antarctica    People

Population: no indigenous inhabitants, but there are seasonally
staffed research stations

note:  approximately 29 nations, all signatory to the Antarctic
Treaty, send personnel to perform seasonal (summer) and year-round
research on the continent and in its surrounding oceans; the
population of persons doing and supporting science on the continent
and its nearby islands south of 60 degrees south latitude (the
region covered by the Antarctic Treaty) varies from approximately
4,000 in summer to 1,000 in winter; in addition, approximately 1,000
personnel including ship's crew and scientists doing onboard
research are present in the waters of the treaty region; Summer
(January) population - 3,687 total; Argentina 302, Australia 201,
Belgium 13, Brazil 80, Bulgaria 16, Chile 352, China 70, Finland 11,
France 100, Germany 51, India 60, Italy 106, Japan 136, South Korea
14, Netherlands 10, NZ 60, Norway 40, Peru 28, Poland 70, Russia
254, South Africa 80, Spain 43, Sweden 20, UK 192, US 1,378
(1998-99); Winter (July) population - 964 total; Argentina 165,
Australia 75, Brazil 12, Chile 129, China 33, France 33, Germany 9,
India 25, Japan 40, South Korea 14, NZ 10, Poland 20, Russia 102,
South Africa 10, UK 39, US 248 (1998-99); year-round stations - 42
total; Argentina 6, Australia 4, Brazil 1, Chile 4, China 2, Finland
1, France 1, Germany 1, India 1, Italy 1, Japan 1, South Korea 1, NZ
1, Norway 1, Poland 1, Russia 6, South Africa 1, Spain 1, Ukraine 1,
UK 2, US 3, Uruguay 1 (1998-99); Summer-only stations - 32 total;
Argentina 3, Australia 4, Bulgaria 1, Chile 7, Germany 1, India 1,
Japan 3, NZ 1, Peru 1, Russia 3, Sweden 2, UK 5 (1998-99); in
addition, during the austral summer some nations have numerous
occupied locations such as tent camps, summer-long temporary
facilities, and mobile traverses in support of research (July 2001
est.)



Antarctica    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  none

conventional short form:  Antarctica

Government type: Antarctic Treaty Summary - the Antarctic Treaty,
signed on 1 December 1959 and entered into force on 23 June 1961,
establishes the legal framework for the management of Antarctica.
The 23rd Antarctic Treaty Consultative Meeting was held in Peru in
May 1999. At the end of 2000, there were 44 treaty member nations:
27 consultative and 17 non-consultative. Consultative (voting)
members include the seven nations that claim portions of Antarctica
as national territory (some claims overlap) and 20 nonclaimant
nations. The US and Russia have reserved the right to make claims.
The US does not recognize the claims of others. Antarctica is
administered through meetings of the consultative member nations.
Decisions from these meetings are carried out by these member
nations (within their areas) in accordance with their own national
laws. The year in parentheses indicates when an acceding nation was
voted to full consultative (voting) status, while no date indicates
the country was an original 1959 treaty signatory. Claimant nations
are - Argentina, Australia, Chile, France, New Zealand, Norway, and
the UK. Nonclaimant consultative nations are - Belgium, Brazil
(1983), Bulgaria (1998) China (1985), Ecuador (1990), Finland
(1989), Germany (1981), India (1983), Italy (1987), Japan, South
Korea (1989), Netherlands (1990), Peru (1989), Poland (1977),
Russia, South Africa, Spain (1988), Sweden (1988), Uruguay (1985),
and the US. Non-consultative (nonvoting) members, with year of
accession in parentheses, are - Austria (1987), Canada (1988),
Colombia (1989), Cuba (1984), Czech Republic (1993), Denmark (1965),
Greece (1987), Guatemala (1991), Hungary (1984), North Korea (1987),
Papua New Guinea (1981), Romania (1971), Slovakia (1993),
Switzerland (1990), Turkey (1995), Ukraine (1992), and Venezuela
(1999). Article 1 - area to be used for peaceful purposes only;
military activity, such as weapons testing, is prohibited, but
military personnel and equipment may be used for scientific research
or any other peaceful purpose; Article 2 - freedom of scientific
investigation and cooperation shall continue; Article 3 - free
exchange of information and personnel, cooperation with the UN and
other international agencies; Article 4 - does not recognize,
dispute, or establish territorial claims and no new claims shall be
asserted while the treaty is in force; Article 5 - prohibits nuclear
explosions or disposal of radioactive wastes; Article 6 - includes
under the treaty all land and ice shelves south of 60 degrees 00
minutes south and reserves high seas rights; Article 7 -
treaty-state observers have free access, including aerial
observation, to any area and may inspect all stations,
installations, and equipment; advance notice of all expeditions and
of the introduction of military personnel must be given; Article 8 -
allows for jurisdiction over observers and scientists by their own
states; Article 9 - frequent consultative meetings take place among
member nations; Article 10 - treaty states will discourage
activities by any country in Antarctica that are contrary to the
treaty; Article 11 - disputes to be settled peacefully by the
parties concerned or, ultimately, by the ICJ; Articles 12, 13, 14 -
deal with upholding, interpreting, and amending the treaty among
involved nations. Other agreements - some 200 recommendations
adopted at treaty consultative meetings and ratified by governments
include - Agreed Measures for Fauna and Flora (1964) which were
later incorporated into the Environmental Protocol; Convention for
the Conservation of Antarctic Seals (1972); Convention on the
Conservation of Antarctic Marine Living Resources (1980); a mineral
resources agreement was signed in 1988 but remains unratified; the
Protocol on Environmental Protection to the Antarctic Treaty was
signed 4 October 1991 and entered into force 14 January 1998; this
agreement provides for the protection of the Antarctic environment
through five specific annexes: 1) marine pollution, 2) fauna and
flora, 3) environmental impact assessments, 4) waste management, and
5) protected area management; it prohibits all activities relating
to mineral resources except scientific research.

Legal system: Antarctica is administered through meetings of the
consultative member nations. Decisions from these meetings are
carried out by these member nations (within their areas) in
accordance with their own national laws. US law, including certain
criminal offenses by or against US nationals, such as murder, may
apply extra-territorially. Some US laws directly apply to
Antarctica. For example, the Antarctic Conservation Act, 16 U.S.C.
section 2401 et seq., provides civil and criminal penalties for the
following activities, unless authorized by regulation of statute:
the taking of native mammals or birds; the introduction of
nonindigenous plants and animals; entry into specially protected
areas; the discharge or disposal of pollutants; and the importation
into the US of certain items from Antarctica. Violation of the
Antarctic Conservation Act carries penalties of up to $10,000 in
fines and one year in prison. The National Science Foundation and
Department of Justice share enforcement responsibilities. Public Law
95-541, the US Antarctic Conservation Act of 1978, as amended in
1996, requires expeditions from the US to Antarctica to notify, in
advance, the Office of Oceans and Polar Affairs, Room 5801,
Department of State, Washington, DC 20520, which reports such plans
to other nations as required by the Antarctic Treaty. For more
information, contact Permit Office, Office of Polar Programs,
National Science Foundation, Arlington, Virginia 22230; telephone:
(703) 292-8030, or see their website at www.nsf.gov.



Antarctica    Economy

Economy - overview: Fishing off the coast and tourism, both based
abroad, account for the limited economic activity. Antarctic
fisheries in 1998-99 (1 July-30 June) reported landing 119,898
metric tons. Unregulated fishing landed five to six times more than
the regulated fishery, and allegedly illegal fishing in antarctic
waters in 1998 resulted in the seizure (by France and Australia) of
at least eight fishing ships. Companies interested in commercial
fishing activities in Antarctica have put forward proposals. The
Convention on the Conservation of Antarctic Marine Living Resources
determines the recommended catch limits for marine species. A total
of 13,193 tourists visited in the 1999-2000 summer, up from the
10,013 who visited the previous year. Nearly all of them were
passengers on 24 commercial (nongovernmental) ships and several
yachts that made 143 trips during the summer. Most tourist trips
lasted approximately two weeks.



Antarctica    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 0

note:  information for US bases only (2001)

Telephones - mobile cellular: NA

Telephone system: general assessment:  NA

domestic:  NA

international:  NA

Radio broadcast stations: AM NA, FM 2, shortwave 1

note:  information for US bases only (1998)

Radios: NA

Television broadcast stations: 1 (the US Navy Antarctic Support
Group operates a cable system with six channels for the American
Forces Antarctic Network-McMurdo)

note:  information for US bases only (2000)

Televisions: several hundred at McMurdo Sound

note:  information for US bases only (2001)

Internet country code: .aq

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): NA



Antarctica    Transportation

Ports and harbors: there are no developed ports and harbors in
Antarctica; most coastal stations have offshore anchorages, and
supplies are transferred from ship to shore by small boats, barges,
and helicopters; a few stations have a basic wharf facility US
coastal stations include McMurdo (77 51 S, 166 40 E), Palmer (64 43
S, 64 03 W); government use only except by permit (see Permit Office
under "Legal System"); offshore anchorage is sparse and intermittent

Airports: 19

note:  27 stations, operated by 16 national governments party to the
Antarctic Treaty, have aircraft landing facilities for either
helicopters and/or fixed-wing aircraft; commercial enterprises
operate two additional aircraft landing facilities; helicopter pads
are available at 27 stations; runways at 15 locations are gravel,
sea-ice, blue-ice, or compacted snow suitable for landing wheeled,
fixed-wing aircraft; of these, 1 is greater than 3 km in length, 6
are between 2 km and 3 km in length, 3 are between 1 km and 2 km in
length, 3 are less than 1 km in length, and 2 are of unknown length;
snow surface skiways, limited to use by ski-equipped, fixed-wing
aircraft, are available at another 15 locations; of these, 4 are
greater than 3 km in length, 3 are between 2 km and 3 km in length,
2 are between 1 km and 2 km in length, 2 are less than 1 km in
length, and 4 are of unknown length; aircraft landing facilities
generally subject to severe restrictions and limitations resulting
from extreme seasonal and geographic conditions; aircraft landing
facilities do not meet ICAO standards; advance approval from the
respective governmental or nongovernmental operating organization
required for landing (2001 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  19

over 3,047 m:  6

2,438 to 3,047 m:  3

1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

914 to 1,523 m:  4

under 914 m:  5 (2000 est.)

Heliports: 27 stations have helicopter landing facilities (helipads)
(2001 est.)



Antarctica    Military

Military - note: the Antarctic Treaty prohibits any measures of a
military nature, such as the establishment of military bases and
fortifications, the carrying out of military maneuvers, or the
testing of any type of weapon; it permits the use of military
personnel or equipment for scientific research or for any other
peaceful purposes



Antarctica    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: Antarctic Treaty freezes claims (see
Antarctic Treaty Summary in Government type entry); sections (some
overlapping) claimed by Argentina, Australia, Chile, France, New
Zealand, Norway, and UK; the US and most other nations do not
recognize the territorial claims of other nations and have made no
claims themselves (the US and Russia reserve the right to do so); no
claims have been made in the sector between 90 degrees west and 150
degrees west

======================================================================

@Antigua and Barbuda




Antigua and Barbuda    Introduction

Background: The islands of Antigua and Barbuda became an independent
state within the British Commonwealth of Nations in 1981. Some 3,000
refugees fleeing a volcanic eruption on nearby Montserrat have
settled in Antigua and Barbuda since 1995.



Antigua and Barbuda    Geography

Location: Caribbean, islands between the Caribbean Sea and the North
Atlantic Ocean, east-southeast of Puerto Rico

Geographic coordinates: 17 03 N, 61 48 W

Map references: Central America and the Caribbean

Area: total:  442 sq km (Antigua 281 sq km; Barbuda 161 sq km)

land:  442 sq km

water:  0 sq km

note:  includes Redonda

Area - comparative: 2.5 times the size of Washington, DC

Land boundaries: 0 km

Coastline: 153 km

Maritime claims: contiguous zone:  24 NM

continental shelf:  200 NM or to the edge of the continental margin

exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: tropical marine; little seasonal temperature variation

Terrain: mostly low-lying limestone and coral islands, with some
higher volcanic areas

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Caribbean Sea 0 m

highest point:  Boggy Peak 402 m

Natural resources: NEGL; pleasant climate fosters tourism

Land use: arable land:  18%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  9%

forests and woodland:  11%

other:  62% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: NA sq km

Natural hazards: hurricanes and tropical storms (July to October);
periodic droughts

Environment - current issues: water management - a major concern
because of limited natural fresh water resources - is further
hampered by the clearing of trees to increase crop production,
causing rainfall to run off quickly

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification,
Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes,
Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer
Protection, Ship Pollution, Whaling

signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements



Antigua and Barbuda    People

Population: 66,970 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  27.97% (male 9,527; female 9,203)

15-64 years:  67.15% (male 22,450; female 22,519)

65 years and over:  4.88% (male 1,360; female 1,911) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 0.74% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 19.5 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 5.87 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: -6.27 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.71 male(s)/female

total population:  0.99 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 22.33 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  70.74 years

male:  68.45 years

female:  73.14 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 2.31 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: NA%

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: NA

HIV/AIDS - deaths: NA

Nationality: noun:  Antiguan(s), Barbudan(s)

adjective:  Antiguan, Barbudan

Ethnic groups: black, British, Portuguese, Lebanese, Syrian

Religions: Anglican (predominant), other Protestant, some Roman
Catholic

Languages: English (official), local dialects

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over has completed five or more
years of schooling

total population:  89%

male:  90%

female:  88% (1960 est.)



Antigua and Barbuda    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  none

conventional short form:  Antigua and Barbuda

Government type: constitutional monarchy with UK-style parliament

Capital: Saint John's

Administrative divisions: 6 parishes and 2 dependencies*; Barbuda*,
Redonda*, Saint George, Saint John, Saint Mary, Saint Paul, Saint
Peter, Saint Philip

Independence: 1 November 1981 (from UK)

National holiday: Independence Day, 1 November (1981)

Constitution: 1 November 1981

Legal system: based on English common law

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6
February 1952), represented by Governor General James B. CARLISLE
(since NA 1993)

head of government:  Prime Minister Lester Bryant BIRD (since 8
March 1994)

cabinet:  Council of Ministers appointed by the governor general on
the advice of the prime minister

elections:  none; the monarch is hereditary; governor general chosen
by the monarch on the advice of the prime minister; prime minister
appointed by the governor general

Legislative branch: bicameral Parliament consists of the Senate
(17-member body appointed by the governor general) and the House of
Representatives (17 seats; members are elected by proportional
representation to serve five-year terms)

elections:  House of Representatives - last held 9 March 1999 (next
to be held NA March 2004)

election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
ALP 12, UPP 4, independent 1

Judicial branch: Eastern Caribbean Supreme Court (based in Saint
Lucia; one judge of the Supreme Court is a resident of the islands
and presides over the Court of Summary Jurisdiction)

Political parties and leaders: Antigua Labor Party or ALP [Lester
Bryant BIRD]; Barbuda People's Movement or BPM [Thomas H. FRANK];
United Progressive Party or UPP [Baldwin SPENCER] (a coalition of
three opposition parties - United National Democratic Party or UNDP,
Antigua Caribbean Liberation Movement or ACLM, and Progressive Labor
Movement or PLM)

Political pressure groups and leaders: Antigua Trades and Labor
Union or ATLU [William ROBINSON]; People's Democratic Movement or
PDM [Hugh MARSHALL]

International organization participation: ACP, C, Caricom, CDB,
ECLAC, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, ICRM, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO,
IMF, IMO, Intelsat (nonsignatory user), Interpol, IOC, ITU, NAM
(observer), OAS, OECS, OPANAL, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UPU, WCL, WFTU,
WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTrO

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Lionel Alexander HURST

chancery:  3216 New Mexico Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20016

telephone:  [1] (202) 362-5211

FAX:  [1] (202) 362-5225

consulate(s) general:  Miami

Diplomatic representation from the US: the US does not have an
embassy in Antigua and Barbuda (embassy closed 30 June 1994); the US
Ambassador to Barbados is accredited to Antigua and Barbuda

Flag description: red, with an inverted isosceles triangle based on
the top edge of the flag; the triangle contains three horizontal
bands of black (top), light blue, and white, with a yellow rising
sun in the black band



Antigua and Barbuda    Economy

Economy - overview: Tourism continues to be the dominant activity in
the economy accounting directly or indirectly for more than half of
GDP. The budding offshore financial sector has been seriously hurt
by financial sanctions imposed by the US and UK as a result of the
loosening of its money-laundering controls. The government has made
efforts to comply with international demands in order to get the
sanctions lifted. Antigua and Barbuda was listed as a tax haven by
the OECD in 2000. The dual island nation's agricultural production
is mainly directed to the domestic market; the sector is constrained
by the limited water supply and labor shortages that reflect the
pull of higher wages in tourism and construction. Manufacturing
comprises enclave-type assembly for export with major products being
bedding, handicrafts, and electronic components. Prospects for
economic growth in the medium term will continue to depend on income
growth in the industrialized world, especially in the US, which
accounts for about one-third of all tourist arrivals.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $533 million (1999 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 4.6% (1999 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $8,200 (1999 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  4%

industry:  12.5%

services:  83.5% (1996 est.)

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 1.6% (1999 est.)

Labor force: 30,000

Labor force - by occupation: commerce and services 82%, agriculture
11%, industry 7% (1983)

Unemployment rate: 7% (1999 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $122.6 million

expenditures:  $141.2 million, including capital expenditures of
$17.3 million (1997 est.)

Industries: tourism, construction, light manufacturing (clothing,
alcohol, household appliances)

Industrial production growth rate: 6% (1997 est.)

Electricity - production: 95 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  100%

hydro:  0%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 88.4 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: cotton, fruits, vegetables, bananas,
coconuts, cucumbers, mangoes, sugarcane; livestock

Exports: $38 million (1998)

Exports - commodities: petroleum products 48%, manufactures 23%,
machinery and transport equipment 17%, food and live animals 4%,
other 8%

Exports - partners: OECS 26%, Barbados 15%, Guyana 4%, Trinidad and
Tobago 2%, US 0.3%

Imports: $330 million (1998)

Imports - commodities: food and live animals, machinery and
transport equipment, manufactures, chemicals, oil

Imports - partners: US 27%, UK 16%, Canada 4%, OECS 3%

Debt - external: $357 million (1998)

Economic aid - recipient: $2.3 million (1995)

Currency: East Caribbean dollar (XCD)

Currency code: XCD

Exchange rates: East Caribbean dollars per US dollar - 2.7000 (fixed
rate since 1976)

Fiscal year: 1 April - 31 March



Antigua and Barbuda    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 28,000 (1996)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 1,300 (1996)

Telephone system: general assessment:  NA

domestic:  good automatic telephone system

international:  1 coaxial submarine cable; satellite earth station -
1 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean); tropospheric scatter to Saba
(Netherlands Antilles) and Guadeloupe

Radio broadcast stations: AM 4, FM 2, shortwave 0 (1998)

Radios: 36,000 (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 2 (1997)

Televisions: 31,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .ag

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 16 (2000)

Internet users: 8,000 (2000)



Antigua and Barbuda    Transportation

Railways: total:  77 km

narrow gauge:  64 km 0.760-m gauge; 13 km 0.610-m gauge (used almost
exclusively for handling sugarcane)

Highways: total:  1,165 km

paved:  384 km

unpaved:  781 km (1999 est.)

Waterways: none

Ports and harbors: Saint John's

Merchant marine: total:  681 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
4,070,390 GRT/5,289,904 DWT

ships by type:  bulk 15, cargo 424, chemical tanker 10, combination
bulk 4, container 176, liquefied gas 4, multi-functional large-load
carrier 6, petroleum tanker 2, refrigerated cargo 11, roll on/roll
off 29

note:  includes some foreign-owned ships registered here as a flag
of convenience: Cyprus 2, Germany 4, Slovenia 2 (2000 est.)

Airports: 3 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  2

2,438 to 3,047 m:  1

under 914 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  1

under 914 m:  1 (2000 est.)



Antigua and Barbuda    Military

Military branches: Royal Antigua and Barbuda Defense Force, Royal
Antigua and Barbuda Police Force (includes Coast Guard)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $NA

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: NA%



Antigua and Barbuda    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

Illicit drugs: considered a minor transshipment point for narcotics
bound for the US and Europe; more significant as a
drug-money-laundering center

======================================================================

@Arctic Ocean

Arctic Ocean    Introduction Top of Page

Background: The Arctic Ocean is the smallest of the world's five
oceans (after the Pacific Ocean, Atlantic Ocean, Indian Ocean, and
the recently delimited Southern Ocean). The Northwest Passage (US
and Canada) and Northern Sea Route (Norway and Russia) are two
important seasonal waterways. A sparse network of air, ocean, river,
and land routes circumscribes the Arctic Ocean.



Arctic Ocean    Geography

Location: body of water between Europe, Asia, and North America,
mostly north of the Arctic Circle

Geographic coordinates: 90 00 N, 0 00 E

Map references: Arctic Region

Area: total:  14.056 million sq km

note:  includes Baffin Bay, Barents Sea, Beaufort Sea, Chukchi Sea,
East Siberian Sea, Greenland Sea, Hudson Bay, Hudson Strait, Kara
Sea, Laptev Sea, Northwest Passage, and other tributary water bodies

Area - comparative: slightly less than 1.5 times the size of the US

Coastline: 45,389 km

Climate: polar climate characterized by persistent cold and
relatively narrow annual temperature ranges; winters characterized
by continuous darkness, cold and stable weather conditions, and
clear skies; summers characterized by continuous daylight, damp and
foggy weather, and weak cyclones with rain or snow

Terrain: central surface covered by a perennial drifting polar
icepack that averages about 3 meters in thickness, although pressure
ridges may be three times that size; clockwise drift pattern in the
Beaufort Gyral Stream, but nearly straight-line movement from the
New Siberian Islands (Russia) to Denmark Strait (between Greenland
and Iceland); the icepack is surrounded by open seas during the
summer, but more than doubles in size during the winter and extends
to the encircling landmasses; the ocean floor is about 50%
continental shelf (highest percentage of any ocean) with the
remainder a central basin interrupted by three submarine ridges
(Alpha Cordillera, Nansen Cordillera, and Lomonosov Ridge)

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Fram Basin -4,665 m

highest point:  sea level 0 m

Natural resources: sand and gravel aggregates, placer deposits,
polymetallic nodules, oil and gas fields, fish, marine mammals
(seals and whales)

Natural hazards: ice islands occasionally break away from northern
Ellesmere Island; icebergs calved from glaciers in western Greenland
and extreme northeastern Canada; permafrost in islands; virtually
ice locked from October to June; ships subject to superstructure
icing from October to May

Environment - current issues: endangered marine species include
walruses and whales; fragile ecosystem slow to change and slow to
recover from disruptions or damage; thinning polar icepack

Geography - note: major chokepoint is the southern Chukchi Sea
(northern access to the Pacific Ocean via the Bering Strait);
strategic location between North America and Russia; shortest marine
link between the extremes of eastern and western Russia; floating
research stations operated by the US and Russia; maximum snow cover
in March or April about 20 to 50 centimeters over the frozen ocean;
snow cover lasts about 10 months



Arctic Ocean    Economy

Economy - overview: Economic activity is limited to the exploitation
of natural resources, including petroleum, natural gas, fish, and
seals.



Arctic Ocean    Transportation

Ports and harbors: Churchill (Canada), Murmansk (Russia), Prudhoe
Bay (US)

Transportation - note: sparse network of air, ocean, river, and land
routes; the Northwest Passage (North America) and Northern Sea Route
(Eurasia) are important seasonal waterways



Arctic Ocean    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: some maritime disputes (see littoral
states)

======================================================================

@Argentina




Argentina    Introduction

Background: Following independence from Spain in 1816, Argentina
experienced periods of internal political conflict between
conservatives and liberals and between civilian and military
factions. After World War II, a long period of Peronist dictatorship
was followed by a military junta that took power in 1976. Democracy
returned in 1983, and numerous elections since then have underscored
Argentina's progress in democratic consolidation.



Argentina    Geography

Location: Southern South America, bordering the South Atlantic
Ocean, between Chile and Uruguay

Geographic coordinates: 34 00 S, 64 00 W

Map references: South America

Area: total:  2,766,890 sq km

land:  2,736,690 sq km

water:  30,200 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly less than three-tenths the size of the
US

Land boundaries: total:  9,665 km

border countries:  Bolivia 832 km, Brazil 1,224 km, Chile 5,150 km,
Paraguay 1,880 km, Uruguay 579 km

Coastline: 4,989 km

Maritime claims: contiguous zone:  24 NM

continental shelf:  200 NM or to the edge of the continental margin

exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: mostly temperate; arid in southeast; subantarctic in
southwest

Terrain: rich plains of the Pampas in northern half, flat to rolling
plateau of Patagonia in south, rugged Andes along western border

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Salinas Chicas -40 m (located on
Peninsula Valdes)

highest point:  Cerro Aconcagua 6,960 m

Natural resources: fertile plains of the Pampas, lead, zinc, tin,
copper, iron ore, manganese, petroleum, uranium

Land use: arable land:  9%

permanent crops:  1%

permanent pastures:  52%

forests and woodland:  19%

other:  19% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 17,000 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: San Miguel de Tucuman and Mendoza areas in the
Andes subject to earthquakes; pamperos are violent windstorms that
can strike the Pampas and northeast; heavy flooding

Environment - current issues: environmental problems (urban and
rural) typical of an industrializing economy such as soil
degradation, desertification, air pollution, and water pollution

note:  Argentina is a world leader in setting voluntary greenhouse
gas targets

Environment - international agreements: party to:
Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic-Marine Living Resources,
Antarctic Seals, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change,
Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification,
Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Nuclear Test Ban,
Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands, Whaling

signed, but not ratified:  Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Marine
Life Conservation

Geography - note: second-largest country in South America (after
Brazil); strategic location relative to sea lanes between South
Atlantic and South Pacific Oceans (Strait of Magellan, Beagle
Channel, Drake Passage)



Argentina    People

Population: 37,384,816 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  26.54% (male 5,077,593; female 4,842,811)

15-64 years:  63.04% (male 11,795,282; female 11,773,855)

65 years and over:  10.42% (male 1,609,672; female 2,285,603) (2001
est.)

Population growth rate: 1.15% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 18.41 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 7.58 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 0.64 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.7 male(s)/female

total population:  0.98 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 17.75 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  75.26 years

male:  71.88 years

female:  78.82 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 2.44 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 0.69% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 130,000 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: 1,800 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Argentine(s)

adjective:  Argentine

Ethnic groups: white (mostly Spanish and Italian) 97%, mestizo,
Amerindian, or other nonwhite groups 3%

Religions: nominally Roman Catholic 92% (less than 20% practicing),
Protestant 2%, Jewish 2%, other 4%

Languages: Spanish (official), English, Italian, German, French

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  96.2%

male:  96.2%

female:  96.2% (1995 est.)



Argentina    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Argentine Republic

conventional short form:  Argentina

local long form:  Republica Argentina

local short form:  Argentina

Government type: republic

Capital: Buenos Aires

Administrative divisions: 23 provinces (provincias, singular -
provincia), and 1 autonomous city* (distrito federal); Buenos Aires;
Buenos Aires Capital Federal*; Catamarca; Chaco; Chubut; Cordoba;
Corrientes; Entre Rios; Formosa; Jujuy; La Pampa; La Rioja; Mendoza;
Misiones; Neuquen; Rio Negro; Salta; San Juan; San Luis; Santa Cruz;
Santa Fe; Santiago del Estero; Tierra del Fuego, Antartica e Islas
del Atlantico Sur; Tucuman

note:  the US does not recognize any claims to Antarctica

Independence: 9 July 1816 (from Spain)

National holiday: Revolution Day, 25 May (1810)

Constitution: 1 May 1853; revised August 1994

Legal system: mixture of US and West European legal systems; has not
accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal and mandatory

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Fernando DE LA RUA
(since 10 December 1999); Vice President Carlos "Chacho" ALVAREZ
resigned 6 October 2000 and a replacement has not yet been named;
note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
government

head of government:  President Fernando DE LA RUA (since 10 December
1999); Vice President Carlos "Chacho" ALVAREZ resigned 6 October
2000 and a replacement has not yet been named; note - the president
is both the chief of state and head of government

cabinet:  Cabinet appointed by the president

elections:  president and vice president elected on the same ticket
by popular vote for four-year terms; election last held 24 October
1999 (next to be held NA October 2003)

election results:  Fernando DE LA RUA elected president; percent of
vote - 48.5%

Legislative branch: bicameral National Congress or Congreso Nacional
consists of the Senate (72 seats; formerly, three members appointed
by each of the provincial legislatures; presently transitioning to
one-third of the members being elected every two years to six-year
terms) and the Chamber of Deputies (257 seats; one-half of the
members elected every two years to four-year terms)

elections:  Senate - transition phase will begin in the 2001
elections when all seats will be fully contested; winners will
randomly draw to determine whether they will serve a two-year,
four-year, or full six-year term, beginning a rotating cycle
renovating one-third of the body every two years; Chamber of
Deputies - last held 24 October 1999 (next to be held NA October
2001)

election results:  Senate - percent of vote by bloc or party - NA%;
seats by bloc or party - Peronist 40, UCR 20, Frepaso 1, other 11;
Chamber of Deputies - percent of vote by bloc or party - NA%; seats
by bloc or party - Alliance 124 (UCR 85, Frepaso 36, others 3),
Peronist 101, AR 12, other 20

Judicial branch: Supreme Court or Corte Suprema (the nine Supreme
Court judges are appointed by the president with approval by the
Senate)

Political parties and leaders: Action for the Republic or AR
[Domingo CAVALLO]; Front for a Country in Solidarity or Frepaso (a
four-party coalition) [Carlos ALVAREZ]; Justicialist Party or PJ
[Carlos Saul MENEM] (Peronist umbrella political organization);
Radical Civic Union or UCR [Raul ALFONSIN]; several provincial
parties

Political pressure groups and leaders: Argentine Association of
Pharmaceutical Labs (CILFA); Argentine Industrial Union
(manufacturers' association); Argentine Rural Society (large
landowners' association); business organizations; General
Confederation of Labor or CGT (Peronist-leaning umbrella labor
organization); Peronist-dominated labor movement; Roman Catholic
Church; students

International organization participation: AfDB, Australia Group,
BCIE, BIS, CCC, ECLAC, FAO, G-6, G-11, G-15, G-19, G-24, G-77, IADB,
IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO,
IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO, ITU, LAES,
LAIA, Mercosur, MINURSO, MIPONUH, MTCR, NSG, OAS, OPANAL, OPCW, PCA,
RG, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNFICYP, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNIKOM, UNMEE,
UNMIBH, UNMIK, UNMOP, UNTSO, UNU, UPU, WCL, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO,
WToO, WTrO, ZC

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Guillermo Enrique GONZALEZ

chancery:  1600 New Hampshire Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20009

telephone:  [1] (202) 238-6400

FAX:  [1] (202) 332-3171

consulate(s) general:  Atlanta, Chicago, Houston, Los Angeles,
Miami, New York

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
James D. WALSH

embassy:  Avenida Colombia 4300, 1425 Buenos Aires

mailing address:  international mail: use street address; APO
address: Unit 4334, APO AA 34034

telephone:  [54] (11) 4777-4533/4534

FAX:  [54] (11) 4511-4997

Flag description: three equal horizontal bands of light blue (top),
white, and light blue; centered in the white band is a radiant
yellow sun with a human face known as the Sun of May



Argentina    Economy

Economy - overview: Argentina benefits from rich natural resources,
a highly literate population, an export-oriented agricultural
sector, and a diversified industrial base. However, when President
Carlos MENEM took office in 1989, the country had piled up huge
external debts, inflation had reached 200% per month, and output was
plummeting. To combat the economic crisis, the government embarked
on a path of trade liberalization, deregulation, and privatization.
In 1991, it implemented radical monetary reforms which pegged the
peso to the US dollar and limited the growth in the monetary base by
law to the growth in reserves. Inflation fell sharply in subsequent
years. In 1995, the Mexican peso crisis produced capital flight, the
loss of banking system deposits, and a severe, but short-lived,
recession; a series of reforms to bolster the domestic banking
system followed. Real GDP growth recovered strongly, reaching 8% in
1997. In 1998, international financial turmoil caused by Russia's
problems and increasing investor anxiety over Brazil produced the
highest domestic interest rates in more than three years, halving
the growth rate of the economy. Conditions worsened in 1999 with GDP
falling by 3%. President Fernando DE LA RUA, who took office in
December 1999, sponsored tax increases and spending cuts to reduce
the deficit, which had ballooned to 2.5% of GDP in 1999. Growth in
2000 was a disappointing 0.8%, as both domestic and foreign
investors remained skeptical of the government's ability to pay
debts and maintain its fixed exchange rate with the US dollar. One
bright spot at the start of 2001 was the IMF's offer of $13.7
billion in support.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $476 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 0.8% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $12,900 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  6%

industry:  32%

services:  62% (2000 est.)

Population below poverty line: 37% (1999 est.)

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): -0.9% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 15 million (1999)

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture NA%, industry NA%, services
NA%

Unemployment rate: 15% (December 2000)

Budget: revenues:  $44 billion

expenditures:  $48 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
(2000 est.)

Industries: food processing, motor vehicles, consumer durables,
textiles, chemicals and petrochemicals, printing, metallurgy, steel

Industrial production growth rate: 1% (2000 est.)

Electricity - production: 77.087 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  60.3%

hydro:  30.7%

nuclear:  8.75%

other:  0.25% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 77.111 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 1.08 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 6.5 billion kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: sunflower seeds, lemons, soybeans, grapes,
corn, tobacco, peanuts, tea, wheat; livestock

Exports: $26.5 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Exports - commodities: edible oils, fuels and energy, cereals, feed,
motor vehicles

Exports - partners: Brazil 24%, EU 21%, US 11% (1999 est.)

Imports: $25.2 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Imports - commodities: machinery and equipment, motor vehicles,
chemicals, metal manufactures, plastics

Imports - partners: EU 28%, US 22%, Brazil 21% (1999 est.)

Debt - external: $154 billion (2000 est.)

Economic aid - recipient: IMF offer of $13.7 billion (January 2001)

Currency: Argentine peso (ARS)

Currency code: ARS

Exchange rates: Argentine pesos per US dollar - 1.000 (fixed rate
pegged to the US dollar)

Fiscal year: calendar year



Argentina    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 7.5 million (1998)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 3 million (December 1999)

Telephone system: general assessment:  by opening the
telecommunications market to competition and foreign investment with
the "Telecommunications Liberalization Plan of 1998", Argentina
encouraged the growth of modern telecommunication technology;
fiber-optic cable trunk lines are being installed between all major
cities; the major networks are entirely digital and the availability
of telephone service is being improved; however, telephone density
is presently minimal, and making telephone service universally
available will take some time

domestic:  microwave radio relay, fiber-optic cable, and a domestic
satellite system with 40 earth stations serve the trunk network;
more than 110,000 pay telephones are installed and mobile telephone
use is rapidly expanding

international:  satellite earth stations - 8 Intelsat (Atlantic
Ocean); Atlantis II and Unisur submarine cables; two international
gateways near Buenos Aires (1999)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 260 (including 10 inactive stations),
FM NA (probably more than 1,000, mostly unlicensed), shortwave 6
(1998)

Radios: 24.3 million (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 42 (plus 444 repeaters) (1997)

Televisions: 7.95 million (1997)

Internet country code: .ar

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 33 (2000)

Internet users: 900,000 (2000)



Argentina    Transportation

Railways: total:  33,744 km (167 km electrified)

broad gauge:  20,594 km 1.676-m gauge (141 km electrified)

standard gauge:  2,739 km 1.435-m gauge (26 km electrified)

narrow gauge:  10,154 km 1.000-m gauge; 257 km 0.750-m gauge (2000)

Highways: total:  215,434 km

paved:  63,553 km (including 734 km of expressways)

unpaved:  151,881 km (1998 est.)

Waterways: 10,950 km

Pipelines: crude oil 4,090 km; petroleum products 2,900 km; natural
gas 9,918 km

Ports and harbors: Bahia Blanca, Buenos Aires, Comodoro Rivadavia,
Concepcion del Uruguay, La Plata, Mar del Plata, Necochea, Rio
Gallegos, Rosario, Santa Fe, Ushuaia

Merchant marine: total:  26 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
185,355 GRT/281,475 DWT

ships by type:  cargo 9, petroleum tanker 11, railcar carrier 1,
refrigerated cargo 2, roll on/roll off 1, short-sea passenger 2
(2000 est.)

Airports: 1,359 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  143

over 3,047 m:  4

2,438 to 3,047 m:  25

1,524 to 2,437 m:  57

914 to 1,523 m:  48

under 914 m:  9 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  1,216

over 3,047 m:  2

2,438 to 3,047 m:  2

1,524 to 2,437 m:  56

914 to 1,523 m:  601

under 914 m:  555 (2000 est.)



Argentina    Military

Military branches: Argentine Army, Navy of the Argentine Republic
(includes Naval Aviation, Marines, and Coast Guard), Argentine Air
Force, National Gendarmerie, National Aeronautical Police Force

Military manpower - military age: 20 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  9,404,434 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
7,625,425 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  335,085
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $4.3 billion (FY99)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 1.3% (FY99)



Argentina    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: claims UK-administered Falkland Islands
(Islas Malvinas); claims UK-administered South Georgia and the South
Sandwich Islands; territorial claim in Antarctica partially overlaps
British and Chilean claims

Illicit drugs: use as a transshipment country for cocaine headed for
Europe and the US; increasing use as a money-laundering center;
domestic consumption of drugs in urban centers is increasing

======================================================================

@Armenia




Armenia    Introduction

Background: An Orthodox Christian country, Armenia was incorporated
into Russia in 1828 and the USSR in 1920. Armenian leaders remain
preoccupied by the long conflict with Azerbaijan over
Nagorno-Karabakh, a primarily Armenian-populated exclave, assigned
to Soviet Azerbaijan in the 1920s by Moscow. Armenia and Azerbaijan
began fighting over the exclave in 1988; the struggle escalated
after both countries attained independence from the Soviet Union in
1991. By May 1994, when a cease-fire took hold, Armenian forces held
not only Nagorno-Karabakh but also a significant portion of
Azerbaijan proper. The economies of both sides have been hurt by
their inability to make substantial progress toward a peaceful
resolution.



Armenia    Geography

Location: Southwestern Asia, east of Turkey

Geographic coordinates: 40 00 N, 45 00 E

Map references: Commonwealth of Independent States

Area: total:  29,800 sq km

land:  28,400 sq km

water:  1,400 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly smaller than Maryland

Land boundaries: total:  1,254 km

border countries:  Azerbaijan-proper 566 km, Azerbaijan-Naxcivan
exclave 221 km, Georgia 164 km, Iran 35 km, Turkey 268 km

Coastline: 0 km (landlocked)

Maritime claims: none (landlocked)

Climate: highland continental, hot summers, cold winters

Terrain: Armenian Highland with mountains; little forest land; fast
flowing rivers; good soil in Aras River valley

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Debed River 400 m

highest point:  Aragats Lerr 4,095 m

Natural resources: small deposits of gold, copper, molybdenum, zinc,
alumina

Land use: arable land:  17%

permanent crops:  3%

permanent pastures:  24%

forests and woodland:  15%

other:  41% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 2,870 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: occasionally severe earthquakes; droughts

Environment - current issues: soil pollution from toxic chemicals
such as DDT; energy blockade, the result of conflict with
Azerbaijan, has led to deforestation when citizens scavenged for
firewood; pollution of Hrazdan (Razdan) and Aras Rivers; the
draining of Sevana Lich (Lake Sevan), a result of its use as a
source for hydropower, threatens drinking water supplies; restart of
Metsamor nuclear power plant without adequate (IAEA-recommended)
safety and backup systems

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Air Pollution,
Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification, Hazardous Wastes,
Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands

signed, but not ratified:  Air Pollution-Persistent Organic
Pollutants

Geography - note: landlocked



Armenia    People

Population: 3,336,100 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  23.23% (male 394,194; female 380,911)

15-64 years:  67.04% (male 1,094,646; female 1,141,760)

65 years and over:  9.73% (male 135,477; female 189,112) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: -0.21% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 11.47 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 9.74 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: -3.87 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.03 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  0.96 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.72 male(s)/female

total population:  0.95 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 41.27 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  66.49 years

male:  62.12 years

female:  71.08 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 1.5 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 0.01% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: less than 500 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: less than 100 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Armenian(s)

adjective:  Armenian

Ethnic groups: Armenian 93%, Azeri 3%, Russian 2%, other (mostly
Yezidi Kurds) 2% (1989)

note:  as of the end of 1993, virtually all Azeris had emigrated
from Armenia

Religions: Armenian Orthodox 94%

Languages: Armenian 96%, Russian 2%, other 2%

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  99%

male:  99%

female:  98% (1989 est.)



Armenia    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Republic of Armenia

conventional short form:  Armenia

local long form:  Hayastani Hanrapetut'yun

local short form:  Hayastan

former:  Armenian Soviet Socialist Republic; Armenian Republic

Government type: republic

Capital: Yerevan

Administrative divisions: 10 provinces (marzer, singular - marz) and
1 city* (k'aghak'ner, singular - k'aghak'); Aragatsotn, Ararat,
Armavir, Geghark'unik', Kotayk', Lorri, Shirak, Syunik', Tavush,
Vayots' Dzor, Yerevan*

Independence: 21 September 1991 (from Soviet Union)

National holiday: Independence Day, 21 September (1991)

Constitution: adopted by nationwide referendum 5 July 1995

Legal system: based on civil law system

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Robert KOCHARIAN (since
30 March 1998)

head of government:  Prime Minister Andranik MARKARYAN (since 12 May
2000)

cabinet:  Council of Ministers appointed by the prime minister

elections:  president elected by popular vote for a five-year term;
special election last held 30 March 1998 (next to be held NA March
2003); prime minister appointed by the president

election results:  Robert KOCHARIAN elected president; percent of
vote - Robert KOCHARIAN 59.5%, Karen DEMIRCHYAN 40.5%

Legislative branch: unicameral National Assembly (Parliament) or
Azgayin Zhoghov (131 seats; members serve four-year terms)

elections:  last held 30 May 1999 (next to be held in the spring of
2003)

election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
unity bloc 61 (Republican Party 41, People's Party of Armenia 20),
Stability Group (independent Armenian deputies who have formed a
bloc) 21, ACP 10, ARF (Dashnak) 8, Law and Unity Party 7, NDU 6,
Law-Governed Party 6, independents 10, unfilled 2; note - seats by
party change frequently

Judicial branch: Supreme Court; Constitutional Court

Political parties and leaders: Armenia Party [Myasnik ALKHASYAN];
Armenian Communist Party or ACP [Vladimir DARBINYAN]; Armenian
Revolutionary Federation ("Dashnak" Party) or ARF [Hrant MARKARYAN];
Christian Democratic Union or CDU [Azat ARSHAKYN, chairman];
Democratic Liberal Party [Ramkavar AZATAKAN, chairman]; Free
Armenian's Mission [Ruben MNATSANIAN, chairman]; Law and Unity Party
[Artashes GEGAMIAN, chairman]; Law-Governed Party [Artur
BAGDASARIAN, chairman]; Mission Party [Artush PAPOIAN, chairman];
National Democratic Union or NDU [Vazgen MANUKIAN]; National State
Party [Samvel SHAGINIAN]; Pan-Armenian National Movement or PANM
[Vano SIRADEGHYAN]; People's Party of Armenia [Stepan DEMIRCHYAN];
Republican Party or RPA [Andranik MARKARYAN]; Shamiram Women's
Movement or SWM [Gayane SARUKHYAN]; Social Democratic (Hnchakian)
Party [Ernst SOGOMONYAN]; Stability Group [Vartan AYVAZIAN,
chairman]; Union of National Self-Determination or NSDU [Paruir
HAIRIKIAN, chairman]; Unity Bloc [Stepan DEMIRCHIAN and Andranik
MARKARYAN] (a coalition of the Republican Party and People's Party
of Armenia)

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: BSEC, CCC, CE, CIS, EAPC,
EBRD, ECE, ESCAP, FAO, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC,
IFRCS, ILO, IMF, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO, ITU, NAM
(observer), OPCW, OSCE, PFP, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WFTU,
WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO (observer)

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Arman KIRAKOSIAN

chancery:  2225 R Street NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone:  [1] (202) 319-1976

FAX:  [1] (202) 319-2982

consulate(s) general:  Los Angeles

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Michael C. LEMMON

embassy:  18 Marshal Bagramian Avenue, Yerevan

mailing address:  American Embassy Yerevan, Department of State,
Washington, DC 20521-7020

telephone:  [374] (2) 52-16-11

FAX:  [374] (2) 151-550

Flag description: three equal horizontal bands of red (top), blue,
and orange



Armenia    Economy

Economy - overview: Under the old Soviet central planning system,
Armenia had developed a modern industrial sector, supplying machine
tools, textiles, and other manufactured goods to sister republics in
exchange for raw materials and energy. Since the implosion of the
USSR in December 1991, Armenia has switched to small-scale
agriculture away from the large agroindustrial complexes of the
Soviet era. The agricultural sector has long-term needs for more
investment and updated technology. The privatization of industry has
been at a slower pace, but has been given renewed emphasis by the
current administration. Armenia is a food importer, and its mineral
deposits (gold, bauxite) are small. The ongoing conflict with
Azerbaijan over the ethnic Armenian-dominated region of
Nagorno-Karabakh and the breakup of the centrally directed economic
system of the former Soviet Union contributed to a severe economic
decline in the early 1990s. By 1994, however, the Armenian
Government had launched an ambitious IMF-sponsored economic program
that has resulted in positive growth rates in 1995-2000. Armenia
also managed to slash inflation and to privatize most small- and
medium-sized enterprises. The chronic energy shortages Armenia
suffered in recent years have been largely offset by the energy
supplied by one of its nuclear power plants at Metsamor. Armenia's
severe trade imbalance, importing three times its exports, has been
offset somewhat by international aid, domestic restructuring of the
economy, and foreign direct investment.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $10 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 5% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $3,000 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  40%

industry:  25%

services:  35% (1999 est.)

Population below poverty line: 45% (1999 est.)

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 1% (1999 est.)

Labor force: 1.5 million (1999)

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture 55%, services 25%, industry
20% (1999 est.)

Unemployment rate: 20% (1998 est.)

note:  official rate is 9.3% for 1998

Budget: revenues:  $360 million

expenditures:  $566 million, including capital expenditures of $NA
(1999 est.)

Industries: metal-cutting machine tools, forging-pressing machines,
electric motors, tires, knitted wear, hosiery, shoes, silk fabric,
chemicals, trucks, instruments, microelectronics, gem cutting,
jewelry manufacturing, software development, brandy

Industrial production growth rate: 5% (2000 est.)

Electricity - production: 6.668 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  45.56%

hydro:  23.25%

nuclear:  31.19%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 6.201 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: fruit (especially grapes), vegetables;
livestock

Exports: $284 million (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Exports - commodities: diamonds, scrap metal, machinery and
equipment, brandy, copper ore

Exports - partners: Belgium 36%, Iran 15%, Russia 14%, US 7%,
Turkmenistan, Georgia (1999)

Imports: $913 million (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Imports - commodities: natural gas, petroleum, tobacco products,
foodstuffs, diamonds

Imports - partners: Russia 17%, US 11%, Belgium 11%, Iran 10%, UK,
Turkey (1999)

Debt - external: $836 million (January 2001)

Economic aid - recipient: $245.5 million (1995)

Currency: dram (AMD)

Currency code: AMD

Exchange rates: drams per US dollar - 554.29 (1 February 2001),
539.53 (2000), 535.06 (1999), 504.92 (1998), 490.85 (1997), 414.04
(1996)

Fiscal year: calendar year



Armenia    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 568,000 (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 6,220 (1997)

Telephone system: general assessment:  system inadequate; now 90%
privately owned and undergoing modernization and expansion

domestic:  the majority of subscribers and the most modern equipment
are in Yerevan (this includes paging and mobile cellular service)

international:  Yerevan is connected to the Trans-Asia-Europe
fiber-optic cable through Iran; additional international service is
available by microwave radio relay and landline connections to the
other countries of the Commonwealth of Independent States and
through the Moscow international switch and by satellite to the rest
of the world; satellite earth stations - 1 Intelsat

Radio broadcast stations: AM 9, FM 6, shortwave 1 (1998)

Radios: 850,000 (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 4 (1998)

Televisions: 825,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .am

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 1 (1999)

Internet users: 30,000 (2000)



Armenia    Transportation

Railways: total:  852 km in common carrier service; does not include
industrial lines

broad gauge:  852 km 1.520-m gauge (779 km electrified) (2001)

Highways: total:  8,431 km ()

paved:  NA

unpaved:  NA (1997)

Waterways: NA km

Pipelines: natural gas 900 km (1991)

Ports and harbors: none

Airports: 7 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  7

over 3,047 m:  1

1,524 to 2,437 m:  2

914 to 1,523 m:  3

under 914 m:  1 (2000 est.)



Armenia    Military

Military branches: Army, Air Force and Air Defense Aviation, Air
Defense Force, Security Forces (internal and border troops)

Military manpower - military age: 18 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  905,154 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
715,734 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  34,998
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $75 million (FY99)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 4% (FY99)



Armenia    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: Armenia supports ethnic Armenians in the
Nagorno-Karabakh region of Azerbaijan in the longstanding,
separatist conflict against the Azerbaijani Government; traditional
demands regarding former Armenian lands in Turkey have subsided

Illicit drugs: illicit cultivator of cannabis mostly for domestic
consumption; increasingly used as a transshipment point for illicit
drugs - mostly opium and hashish - to Western Europe and the US via
Iran, Central Asia, and Russia

======================================================================

@Aruba





Aruba    Introduction

Background: Discovered and claimed for Spain in 1499, Aruba was
acquired by the Dutch in 1636. The island's economy has been
dominated by three main industries. A 19th century gold rush was
followed by prosperity brought on by the opening in 1924 of an oil
refinery. The last decades of the 20th century saw a boom in the
tourism industry. Aruba seceded from the Netherlands Antilles in
1986 and became a separate, autonomous member of the Kingdom of the
Netherlands. Movement toward full independence was halted at Aruba's
request in 1990.



Aruba    Geography

Location: Caribbean, island in the Caribbean Sea, north of Venezuela

Geographic coordinates: 12 30 N, 69 58 W

Map references: Central America and the Caribbean

Area: total:  193 sq km

land:  193 sq km

water:  0 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly larger than Washington, DC

Land boundaries: 0 km

Coastline: 68.5 km

Maritime claims: territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: tropical marine; little seasonal temperature variation

Terrain: flat with a few hills; scant vegetation

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Caribbean Sea 0 m

highest point:  Mount Jamanota 188 m

Natural resources: NEGL; white sandy beaches

Land use: arable land:  7% (including aloe 0.01%)

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  0%

forests and woodland:  0%

other:  93% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 0.01 sq km

Natural hazards: lies outside the Caribbean hurricane belt

Environment - current issues: NA



Aruba    People

Population: 70,007 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  21.29% (male 7,709; female 7,193)

15-64 years:  68.52% (male 23,111; female 24,859)

65 years and over:  10.19% (male 2,954; female 4,181) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 0.64% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 12.64 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 6.21 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: NEGL

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.07 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  0.93 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.71 male(s)/female

total population:  0.93 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 6.39 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  78.52 years

male:  75.16 years

female:  82.04 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 1.8 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: NA%

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: NA

HIV/AIDS - deaths: NA

Nationality: noun:  Aruban(s)

adjective:  Aruban; Dutch

Ethnic groups: mixed white/Caribbean Amerindian 80%

Religions: Roman Catholic 82%, Protestant 8%, Hindu, Muslim,
Confucian, Jewish

Languages: Dutch (official), Papiamento (a Spanish, Portuguese,
Dutch, English dialect), English (widely spoken), Spanish

Literacy: definition:  NA

total population:  97%

male:  NA%

female:  NA%



Aruba    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  none

conventional short form:  Aruba

Dependency status: part of the Kingdom of the Netherlands; full
autonomy in internal affairs obtained in 1986 upon separation from
the Netherlands Antilles; Dutch Government responsible for defense
and foreign affairs

Government type: parliamentary democracy

Capital: Oranjestad

Administrative divisions: none (part of the Kingdom of the
Netherlands)

Independence: none (part of the Kingdom of the Netherlands)

National holiday: Flag Day, 18 March

Constitution: 1 January 1986

Legal system: based on Dutch civil law system, with some English
common law influence

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  Queen BEATRIX Wilhelmina Armgard
of the Netherlands (since 30 April 1980), represented by Governor
General Olindo KOOLMAN (since 1 January 1992)

head of government:  Prime Minister Jan (Henny) H. EMAN (since 29
July 1994) and Deputy Prime Minister Lili BEKE-MARTINEZ

cabinet:  Council of Ministers (elected by the Staten)

elections:  the monarch is hereditary; governor general appointed
for a six-year term by the monarch; prime minister and deputy prime
minister elected by the Staten for four-year terms; election last
held 12 July 1997 (next to be held by December 2001)

election results:  Jan (Henny) H. EMAN elected prime minister;
percent of legislative vote - NA%; Lili BEKE-MARTINEZ elected deputy
prime minister; percent of legislative vote - NA%

Legislative branch: unicameral Legislature or Staten (21 seats;
members elected by direct, popular vote to serve four-year terms)

elections:  last held 12 December 1997 (next to be held by NA
December 2001)

election results:  percent of vote by party - AVP 43%, MEP 39%, OLA
9% PPA 4%, ADN 2%, PARA 1%, MAS 0.5%; seats by party - AVP 10, MEP
9, OLA 2

Judicial branch: Joint High Court of Justice (judges are appointed
by the monarch)

Political parties and leaders: Aruba Solidarity Movement or MAS
[leader NA]; Aruban Democratic Party or PDA [Leo BERLINSKI]; Aruban
Liberal Party or OLA [Glenbert CROES]; Aruban Patriotic Party or PPA
[Benny NISBET]; Aruban People's Party or AVP [Tico CROES]; Electoral
Movement Party or MEP [Nelson ODUBER]; For a Restructured Aruba Now
or PARA [leader NA]; National Democratic Action or ADN [Pedro Charro
KELLY]

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: Caricom (observer), ECLAC
(associate), Interpol, IOC, UNESCO (associate), WCL, WToO (associate)

Diplomatic representation in the US: none (represented by the
Kingdom of the Netherlands)

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Consul
General Barbara J. STEPHENSON

embassy:  J. B. Gorsiraweg #1, Curacao

mailing address:  P. O. Box 158, Willemstad, Curacao

telephone:  [599] (9) 461-3066

FAX:  [599] (9) 461-6489

Flag description: blue, with two narrow, horizontal, yellow stripes
across the lower portion and a red, four-pointed star outlined in
white in the upper hoist-side corner



Aruba    Economy

Economy - overview: Tourism is the mainstay of the Aruban economy,
although offshore banking and oil refining and storage are also
important. The rapid growth of the tourism sector over the last
decade has resulted in a substantial expansion of other activities.
Construction has boomed, with hotel capacity five times the 1985
level. In addition, the reopening of the country's oil refinery in
1993, a major source of employment and foreign exchange earnings,
has further spurred growth. Aruba's small labor force and less than
1% unemployment rate have led to a large number of unfilled job
vacancies, despite sharp rises in wage rates in recent years.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $2 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 3.5% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $28,000 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  NA%

industry:  NA%

services:  NA%

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 4.2% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 41,501 (1997 est.)

Labor force - by occupation: most employment is in wholesale and
retail trade and repair, followed by hotels and restaurants; oil
refining

Unemployment rate: 0.6% (1999 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $NA

expenditures:  $541 million, including capital expenditures of $NA
(2000 est.)

Industries: tourism, transshipment facilities, oil refining

Industrial production growth rate: NA%

Electricity - production: 450 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  100%

hydro:  0%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 418.5 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: aloes; livestock; fish

Exports: $2.2 billion (including oil reexports) (2000 est.)

Exports - commodities: live animals and animal products, art and
collectibles, machinery and electrical equipment, transport equipment

Exports - partners: US 42%, Colombia 20%, Netherlands 12% (1999)

Imports: $2.5 billion (2000 est.)

Imports - commodities: machinery and electrical equipment, crude oil
for refining and reexport, chemicals; foodstuffs

Imports - partners: US 63%, Netherlands 11%, Netherlands Antilles
3%, Japan (1999)

Debt - external: $285 million (1996)

Economic aid - recipient: $26 million (1995); note - the Netherlands
provided a $127 million aid package to Aruba and Suriname in 1996

Currency: Aruban guilder/florin (AWG)

Currency code: AWG

Exchange rates: Aruban guilders/florins per US dollar - 1.7900
(fixed rate since 1986)

Fiscal year: calendar year



Aruba    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 33,000 (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 3,402 (1997)

Telephone system: general assessment:  NA

domestic:  more than adequate

international:  1 submarine cable to Sint Maarten (Netherlands
Antilles); extensive interisland microwave radio relay links

Radio broadcast stations: AM 4, FM 6, shortwave 0 (1998)

Radios: 50,000 (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 1 (1997)

Televisions: 20,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .aw

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): NA

Internet users: 4,000 (2000)



Aruba    Transportation

Railways: 0 km

Highways: total:  800 km

paved:  513 km

unpaved:  287 km

note:  most coastal roads are paved, while unpaved roads serve large
tracts of the interior (1995)

Waterways: none

Ports and harbors: Barcadera, Oranjestad, Sint Nicolaas

Merchant marine: total:  1 ship (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 3,120
GRT/3,635 DWT

ships by type:  cargo 1 (2000 est.)

Airports: 1 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  1

2,438 to 3,047 m:  1 (2000 est.)



Aruba    Military

Military branches: Royal Dutch Navy and Marines, Coast Guard

Military - note: defense is the responsibility of the Kingdom of the
Netherlands



Aruba    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

Illicit drugs: drug-money-laundering center and transit point for
narcotics bound for the US and Europe

======================================================================

@Ashmore and Cartier Islands




Ashmore and Cartier Islands    Introduction

Background: These uninhabited islands came under Australian
authority in 1931; formal administration began two years later.
Ashmore Reef supports a rich and diverse avian and marine habitat;
in 1983 it became a National Nature Reserve. Recent geological
explorations have indicated promising petroleum formations.



Ashmore and Cartier Islands    Geography

Location: Southeastern Asia, islands in the Indian Ocean, northwest
of Australia

Geographic coordinates: 12 14 S, 123 05 E

Map references: Southeast Asia

Area: total:  5 sq km

land:  5 sq km

water:  0 sq km

note:  includes Ashmore Reef (West, Middle, and East Islets) and
Cartier Island

Area - comparative: about eight times the size of The Mall in
Washington, DC

Land boundaries: 0 km

Coastline: 74.1 km

Maritime claims: contiguous zone:  12 NM

continental shelf:  200-m depth or to the depth of exploitation

exclusive fishing zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  3 NM

Climate: tropical

Terrain: low with sand and coral

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Indian Ocean 0 m

highest point:  unnamed location 3 m

Natural resources: fish

Land use: arable land:  0%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  0%

forests and woodland:  0%

other:  100% (all grass and sand)

Irrigated land: 0 sq km (1993)

Natural hazards: surrounded by shoals and reefs that can pose
maritime hazards

Environment - current issues: NA

Geography - note: Ashmore Reef National Nature Reserve established
in August 1983



Ashmore and Cartier Islands    People

Population: no indigenous inhabitants

note:  there are only seasonal caretakers (July 2001 est.)



Ashmore and Cartier Islands    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Territory of Ashmore and
Cartier Islands

conventional short form:  Ashmore and Cartier Islands

Dependency status: territory of Australia; administered from
Canberra by the Australian Department of the Environment, Sport, and
Territories

Legal system: the laws of the Northern Territory of Australia, where
applicable, apply

Diplomatic representation in the US: none (territory of Australia)

Diplomatic representation from the US: none (territory of Australia)

Flag description: the flag of Australia is used



Ashmore and Cartier Islands    Economy

Economy - overview: no economic activity



Ashmore and Cartier Islands    Transportation

Waterways: none

Ports and harbors: none; offshore anchorage only



Ashmore and Cartier Islands    Military

Military - note: defense is the responsibility of Australia;
periodic visits by the Royal Australian Navy and Royal Australian
Air Force



Ashmore and Cartier Islands    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

======================================================================

@Atlantic Ocean

Atlantic Ocean    Introduction Top of Page

Background: The Atlantic Ocean is the second-largest of the world's
five oceans (after the Pacific Ocean, but larger than the Indian
Ocean, Southern Ocean, and Arctic Ocean). The Kiel Canal (Germany),
Oresund (Denmark-Sweden), Bosporus (Turkey), Strait of Gibraltar
(Morocco-Spain), and the St. Lawrence Seaway (Canada-US) are
important strategic access waterways. The decision by the
International Hydrographic Organization in the spring of 2000 to
delimit a fifth world ocean, the Southern Ocean, removed the portion
of the Atlantic Ocean south of 60 degrees south.



Atlantic Ocean    Geography

Location: body of water between Africa, Europe, the Southern Ocean,
and the Western Hemisphere

Geographic coordinates: 0 00 N, 25 00 W

Map references: World

Area: total:  76.762 million sq km

note:  includes Baltic Sea, Black Sea, Caribbean Sea, Davis Strait,
Denmark Strait, part of the Drake Passage, Gulf of Mexico,
Mediterranean Sea, North Sea, Norwegian Sea, almost all of the
Scotia Sea, and other tributary water bodies

Area - comparative: slightly less than 6.5 times the size of the US

Coastline: 111,866 km

Climate: tropical cyclones (hurricanes) develop off the coast of
Africa near Cape Verde and move westward into the Caribbean Sea;
hurricanes can occur from May to December, but are most frequent
from August to November

Terrain: surface usually covered with sea ice in Labrador Sea,
Denmark Strait, and Baltic Sea from October to June; clockwise
warm-water gyre (broad, circular system of currents) in the northern
Atlantic, counterclockwise warm-water gyre in the southern Atlantic;
the ocean floor is dominated by the Mid-Atlantic Ridge, a rugged
north-south centerline for the entire Atlantic basin

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Milwaukee Deep in the Puerto Rico
Trench -8,605 m

highest point:  sea level 0 m

Natural resources: oil and gas fields, fish, marine mammals (seals
and whales), sand and gravel aggregates, placer deposits,
polymetallic nodules, precious stones

Natural hazards: icebergs common in Davis Strait, Denmark Strait,
and the northwestern Atlantic Ocean from February to August and have
been spotted as far south as Bermuda and the Madeira Islands; ships
subject to superstructure icing in extreme northern Atlantic from
October to May; persistent fog can be a maritime hazard from May to
September; hurricanes (May to December)

Environment - current issues: endangered marine species include the
manatee, seals, sea lions, turtles, and whales; drift net fishing is
hastening the decline of fish stocks and contributing to
international disputes; municipal sludge pollution off eastern US,
southern Brazil, and eastern Argentina; oil pollution in Caribbean
Sea, Gulf of Mexico, Lake Maracaibo, Mediterranean Sea, and North
Sea; industrial waste and municipal sewage pollution in Baltic Sea,
North Sea, and Mediterranean Sea

Geography - note: major chokepoints include the Dardanelles, Strait
of Gibraltar, access to the Panama and Suez Canals; strategic
straits include the Strait of Dover, Straits of Florida, Mona
Passage, The Sound (Oresund), and Windward Passage; the Equator
divides the Atlantic Ocean into the North Atlantic Ocean and South
Atlantic Ocean



Atlantic Ocean    Economy

Economy - overview: The Atlantic Ocean provides some of the world's
most heavily trafficked sea routes, between and within the Eastern
and Western Hemispheres. Other economic activity includes the
exploitation of natural resources, e.g., fishing, the dredging of
aragonite sands (The Bahamas), and production of crude oil and
natural gas (Caribbean Sea, Gulf of Mexico, and North Sea).



Atlantic Ocean    Transportation

Ports and harbors: Alexandria (Egypt), Algiers (Algeria), Antwerp
(Belgium), Barcelona (Spain), Buenos Aires (Argentina), Casablanca
(Morocco), Colon (Panama), Copenhagen (Denmark), Dakar (Senegal),
Gdansk (Poland), Hamburg (Germany), Helsinki (Finland), Las Palmas
(Canary Islands, Spain), Le Havre (France), Lisbon (Portugal),
London (UK), Marseille (France), Montevideo (Uruguay), Montreal
(Canada), Naples (Italy), New Orleans (US), New York (US), Oran
(Algeria), Oslo (Norway), Peiraiefs or Piraeus (Greece), Rio de
Janeiro (Brazil), Rotterdam (Netherlands), Saint Petersburg
(Russia), Stockholm (Sweden)

Transportation - note: Kiel Canal and Saint Lawrence Seaway are two
important waterways; significant domestic commercial and
recreational use of Intracoastal Waterway on central and south
Atlantic seaboard and Gulf of Mexico coast of US



Atlantic Ocean    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: some maritime disputes (see littoral
states)

======================================================================

@Australia




Australia    Introduction

Background: Australia became a commonwealth of the British Empire in
1901. It was able to take advantage of its natural resources to
rapidly develop its agricultural and manufacturing industries and to
make a major contribution to the British effort in World Wars I and
II. Long-term concerns include pollution, particularly depletion of
the ozone layer, and management and conservation of coastal areas,
especially the Great Barrier Reef. A referendum to change
Australia's status, from a commonwealth headed by the British
monarch to an independent republic, was defeated in 1999.



Australia    Geography

Location: Oceania, continent between the Indian Ocean and the South
Pacific Ocean

Geographic coordinates: 27 00 S, 133 00 E

Map references: Oceania

Area: total:  7,686,850 sq km

land:  7,617,930 sq km

water:  68,920 sq km

note:  includes Lord Howe Island and Macquarie Island

Area - comparative: slightly smaller than the contiguous 48 states
of the US

Land boundaries: 0 km

Coastline: 25,760 km

Maritime claims: contiguous zone:  24 NM

continental shelf:  200 NM or to the edge of the continental margin

exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: generally arid to semiarid; temperate in south and east;
tropical in north

Terrain: mostly low plateau with deserts; fertile plain in southeast

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Lake Eyre -15 m

highest point:  Mount Kosciuszko 2,229 m

Natural resources: bauxite, coal, iron ore, copper, tin, silver,
uranium, nickel, tungsten, mineral sands, lead, zinc, diamonds,
natural gas, petroleum

Land use: arable land:  6%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  54%

forests and woodland:  19%

other:  21% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 21,070 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: cyclones along the coast; severe droughts

Environment - current issues: soil erosion from overgrazing,
industrial development, urbanization, and poor farming practices;
soil salinity rising due to the use of poor quality water;
desertification; clearing for agricultural purposes threatens the
natural habitat of many unique animal and plant species; the Great
Barrier Reef off the northeast coast, the largest coral reef in the
world, is threatened by increased shipping and its popularity as a
tourist site; limited natural fresh water resources

Environment - international agreements: party to:
Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic-Marine Living Resources,
Antarctic Seals, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change,
Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification,
Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Marine Life
Conservation, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship
Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling

signed, but not ratified:  Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol

Geography - note: world's smallest continent but sixth-largest
country; population concentrated along the eastern and southeastern
coasts; regular, tropical, invigorating, sea breeze known as "the
Doctor" occurs along the west coast in the summer



Australia    People

Population: 19,357,594 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  20.64% (male 2,045,892; female 1,948,949)

15-64 years:  66.86% (male 6,538,096; female 6,405,014)

65 years and over:  12.5% (male 1,059,107; female 1,360,536) (2001
est.)

Population growth rate: 0.99% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 12.86 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 7.18 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 4.19 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1.02 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.78 male(s)/female

total population:  0.99 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 4.97 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  79.87 years

male:  77.02 years

female:  82.87 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 1.77 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 0.15% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 14,000 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: 100 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Australian(s)

adjective:  Australian

Ethnic groups: Caucasian 92%, Asian 7%, aboriginal and other 1%

Religions: Anglican 26.1%, Roman Catholic 26%, other Christian
24.3%, non-Christian 11%

Languages: English, native languages

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  100%

male:  100%

female:  100% (1980 est.)



Australia    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Commonwealth of Australia

conventional short form:  Australia

Government type: democratic, federal-state system recognizing the
British monarch as sovereign

Capital: Canberra

Administrative divisions: 6 states and 2 territories*; Australian
Capital Territory*, New South Wales, Northern Territory*,
Queensland, South Australia, Tasmania, Victoria, Western Australia

Dependent areas: Ashmore and Cartier Islands, Christmas Island,
Cocos (Keeling) Islands, Coral Sea Islands, Heard Island and
McDonald Islands, Norfolk Island

Independence: 1 January 1901 (federation of UK colonies)

National holiday: Australia Day, 26 January (1788)

Constitution: 9 July 1900, effective 1 January 1901

Legal system: based on English common law; accepts compulsory ICJ
jurisdiction, with reservations

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal and compulsory

Executive branch: chief of state:  Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6
February 1952), represented by Governor General Rev. Peter
HOLLINGSWORTH (since 29 June 2001)

head of government:  Prime Minister John Winston HOWARD (since 11
March 1996); Deputy Prime Minister John ANDERSON (since NA)

cabinet:  Cabinet selected from among the members of Federal
Parliament by the governor general on the advice of the prime
minister

elections:  none; the monarch is hereditary; governor general
appointed by the monarch; following legislative elections, the
leader of the majority party or leader of a majority coalition is
usually appointed prime minister by the governor general for a
three-year term

note:  government coalition - Liberal Party and National Party

Legislative branch: bicameral Federal Parliament consists of the
Senate (76 seats - 12 from each of the six states and two from each
of the two territories; one-half of the members elected every three
years by popular vote to serve six-year terms) and the House of
Representatives (148 seats; members elected by popular vote on the
basis of proportional representation to serve three-year terms; no
state can have fewer than five representatives)

elections:  Senate - last held 3 October 1998 (next to be held by
October 2001); House of Representatives - last held 3 October 1998
(next to be held by October 2001)

election results:  Senate - percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by
party - Liberal Party-National Party coalition 35, Australian Labor
Party 29, Australian Democratic Party 9, Green Party 1, One Nation
Party 1, independent 1; House of Representatives - percent of vote
by party - NA%; seats by party - Liberal Party-National Party
coalition 80, Australian Labor Party 67, independent 1

Judicial branch: High Court (the chief justice and six other
justices are appointed by the governor general)

Political parties and leaders: Australian Democratic Party [Meg
LEES]; Australian Labor Party [Kim BEAZLEY]; Green Party [Bob
BROWN]; Liberal Party [John Winston HOWARD]; National Party [John
ANDERSON]; One Nation Party [Pauline HANSON]

Political pressure groups and leaders: Australian Democratic Labor
Party (anti-Communist Labor Party splinter group); Peace and Nuclear
Disarmament Action (Nuclear Disarmament Party splinter group)

International organization participation: ANZUS, APEC, ARF (dialogue
partner), AsDB, ASEAN (dialogue partner), Australia Group, BIS, C,
CCC, CP, EBRD, ESCAP, FAO, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA,
IEA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat,
Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO, ITU, NAM (guest), NEA, NSG, OECD, OPCW,
PCA, Sparteca, SPC, SPF, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNMEE, UNTAET,
UNTSO, UNU, UPU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTrO, ZC

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Michael THAWLEY

chancery:  1601 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20036

telephone:  [1] (202) 797-3000

FAX:  [1] (202) 797-3168

consulate(s) general:  Atlanta, Honolulu, Los Angeles, New York, and
San Francisco

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Edward W. GNEHM, Jr.

embassy:  Moonah Place, Yarralumla, Canberra, Australian Capital
Territory 2600

mailing address:  APO AP 96549

telephone:  [61] (02) 6214-5600

FAX:  [61] (02) 6214-5970

consulate(s) general:  Sydney

consulate(s):  Melbourne and Perth

Flag description: blue with the flag of the UK in the upper
hoist-side quadrant and a large seven-pointed star in the lower
hoist-side quadrant; the remaining half is a representation of the
Southern Cross constellation in white with one small five-pointed
star and four, larger, seven-pointed stars



Australia    Economy

Economy - overview: Australia has a prosperous Western-style
capitalist economy, with a per capita GDP at the level of the four
dominant West European economies. Rich in natural resources,
Australia is a major exporter of agricultural products, minerals,
metals, and fossil fuels. Commodities account for 57% of the value
of total exports, so that a downturn in world commodity prices can
have a big impact on the economy. The government is pushing for
increased exports of manufactured goods, but competition in
international markets continues to be severe. While Australia has
suffered from the low growth and high unemployment characterizing
the OECD countries in the early 1990s and during the recent
financial problems in East Asia, the economy has expanded at a solid
4% annual growth pace in the last five years. Canberra's emphasis on
reforms is a key factor behind the economy's resilience to the
regional crisis and its stronger than expected growth rate. Growth
in 2001 will depend on key international commodity prices, the
extent of recovery in nearby Asian economies, and the strength of US
and European markets.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $445.8 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 4.7% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $23,200 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  3%

industry:  26%

services:  71% (1999 est.)

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  2%

highest 10%:  25.4% (1994)

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 1.4% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 9.5 million (December 1999)

Labor force - by occupation: services 73%, industry 22%, agriculture
5% (1997 est.)

Unemployment rate: 6.4% (2000)

Budget: revenues:  $94 billion

expenditures:  $103 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
(1999 est.)

Industries: mining, industrial and transportation equipment, food
processing, chemicals, steel

Industrial production growth rate: 1.5% (1999 est.)

Electricity - production: 191.727 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  89.93%

hydro:  8.36%

nuclear:  0%

other:  1.71% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 178.306 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: wheat, barley, sugarcane, fruits; cattle,
sheep, poultry

Exports: $69 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Exports - commodities: coal, gold, meat, wool, alumina, iron ore,
wheat, machinery and transport equipment

Exports - partners: Japan 19%, EU 14%, ASEAN 12%, US 9%, South
Korea, NZ, Taiwan, Hong Kong, China (1999)

Imports: $77 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Imports - commodities: machinery and transport equipment, computers
and office machines, telecommunication equipment and parts; crude
oil and petroleum products

Imports - partners: EU 24%, US 22%, Japan 14%, ASEAN 13% (1999)

Debt - external: $220.6 billion (2000)

Economic aid - donor: ODA, $1.43 billion (FY97/98)

Currency: Australian dollar (AUD)

Currency code: AUD

Exchange rates: Australian dollars per US dollar - 1.7995 (January
2001), 1.7173 (2000), 1.5497 (1999), 1.5888 (1998), 1.3439 (1997),
1.2773 (1996)

Fiscal year: 1 July - 30 June



Australia    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 9.58 million (1998)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 6.4 million (1998)

Telephone system: general assessment:  excellent domestic and
international service

domestic:  domestic satellite system; much use of radiotelephone in
areas of low population density; rapid growth of mobile cellular
telephones

international:  submarine cables to New Zealand, Papua New Guinea,
and Indonesia; satellite earth stations - 10 Intelsat (4 Indian
Ocean and 6 Pacific Ocean), 2 Inmarsat (Indian and Pacific Ocean
regions) (1998)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 262, FM 345, shortwave 1 (1998)

Radios: 25.5 million (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 104 (1997)

Televisions: 10.15 million (1997)

Internet country code: .au

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 264 (2000)

Internet users: 7.77 million (2000)



Australia    Transportation

Railways: total:  33,819 km (2,540 km electrified)

broad gauge:  3,719 km 1.600-m gauge

standard gauge:  15,422 km 1.435-m gauge

narrow gauge:  14,506 km 1.067-m gauge

dual gauge:  172 km NA gauges (1999)

Highways: total:  913,000 km

paved:  353,331 km (including 1,363 km of expressways)

unpaved:  559,669 km (1996)

Waterways: 8,368 km (mainly used by small, shallow-draft craft)

Pipelines: crude oil 2,500 km; petroleum products 500 km; natural
gas 5,600 km

Ports and harbors: Adelaide, Brisbane, Cairns, Darwin, Devonport
(Tasmania), Fremantle, Geelong, Hobart (Tasmania), Launceston
(Tasmania), Mackay, Melbourne, Sydney, Townsville

Merchant marine: total:  54 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
1,558,371 GRT/2,038,776 DWT

ships by type:  bulk 26, cargo 3, chemical tanker 5, container 1,
liquefied gas 4, passenger 2, petroleum tanker 7, roll on/roll off 6
(2000 est.)

Airports: 411 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  271

over 3,047 m:  10

2,438 to 3,047 m:  12

1,524 to 2,437 m:  118

914 to 1,523 m:  122

under 914 m:  9 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  140

1,524 to 2,437 m:  17

914 to 1,523 m:  112

under 914 m:  11 (2000 est.)



Australia    Military

Military branches: Australian Army, Royal Australian Navy, Royal
Australian Air Force

Military manpower - military age: 17 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  4,990,107 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
4,303,966 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  138,971
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $6.9 billion (FY98/99)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 1.9% (FY98/99)



Australia    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: territorial claim in Antarctica
(Australian Antarctic Territory)

Illicit drugs: Tasmania is one of the world's major suppliers of
licit opiate products; government maintains strict controls over
areas of opium poppy cultivation and output of poppy straw
concentrate

======================================================================

@Austria




Austria    Introduction

Background: Once the center of power for the large Austro-Hungarian
Empire, Austria was reduced to a small republic after its defeat in
World War I. Following annexation by Nazi Germany in 1938 and
subsequent occupation by the victorious Allies, Austria's 1955 State
Treaty declared the country "permanently neutral" as a condition of
Soviet military withdrawal. Neutrality, once ingrained as part of
the Austrian cultural identity, has been called into question since
the Soviet collapse of 1991 and Austria's increasingly prominent
role in European affairs. A prosperous country, Austria joined the
European Union in 1995 and the euro monetary system in 1999.



Austria    Geography

Location: Central Europe, north of Italy and Slovenia

Geographic coordinates: 47 20 N, 13 20 E

Map references: Europe

Area: total:  83,858 sq km

land:  82,738 sq km

water:  1,120 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly smaller than Maine

Land boundaries: total:  2,562 km

border countries:  Czech Republic 362 km, Germany 784 km, Hungary
366 km, Italy 430 km, Liechtenstein 35 km, Slovakia 91 km, Slovenia
330 km, Switzerland 164 km

Coastline: 0 km (landlocked)

Maritime claims: none (landlocked)

Climate: temperate; continental, cloudy; cold winters with frequent
rain in lowlands and snow in mountains; cool summers with occasional
showers

Terrain: in the west and south mostly mountains (Alps); along the
eastern and northern margins mostly flat or gently sloping

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Neusiedler See 115 m

highest point:  Grossglockner 3,798 m

Natural resources: iron ore, oil, timber, magnesite, lead, coal,
lignite, copper, hydropower

Land use: arable land:  17%

permanent crops:  1%

permanent pastures:  23%

forests and woodland:  39%

other:  20% (1996 est.)

Irrigated land: 457 sq km (1995 est.)

Natural hazards: NA

Environment - current issues: some forest degradation caused by air
and soil pollution; soil pollution results from the use of
agricultural chemicals; air pollution results from emissions by
coal- and oil-fired power stations and industrial plants and from
trucks transiting Austria between northern and southern Europe

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Air Pollution,
Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air Pollution-Sulphur 85, Air
Pollution-Sulphur 94, Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds,
Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification,
Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes,
Law of the Sea, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship
Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling

signed, but not ratified:  Air Pollution-Persistent Organic
Pollutants, Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol

Geography - note: landlocked; strategic location at the crossroads
of central Europe with many easily traversable Alpine passes and
valleys; major river is the Danube; population is concentrated on
eastern lowlands because of steep slopes, poor soils, and low
temperatures elsewhere



Austria    People

Population: 8,150,835 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  16.57% (male 691,925; female 658,375)

15-64 years:  68.05% (male 2,802,019; female 2,744,536)

65 years and over:  15.38% (male 478,498; female 775,482) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 0.24% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 9.74 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 9.8 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 2.45 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1.02 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.62 male(s)/female

total population:  0.95 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 4.44 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  77.84 years

male:  74.68 years

female:  81.15 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 1.39 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 0.23% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 9,000 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: less than 100 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Austrian(s)

adjective:  Austrian

Ethnic groups: German 98%, Croatian, Slovene, other (includes
Hungarians, Czechs, Slovaks, Roma)

Religions: Roman Catholic 78%, Protestant 5%, Muslim and other 17%

Languages: German

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  98%

male:  NA%

female:  NA%



Austria    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Republic of Austria

conventional short form:  Austria

local long form:  Republik Oesterreich

local short form:  Oesterreich

Government type: federal republic

Capital: Vienna

Administrative divisions: 9 states (bundeslaender, singular -
bundesland); Burgenland, Kaernten, Niederoesterreich,
Oberoesterreich, Salzburg, Steiermark, Tirol, Vorarlberg, Wien

Independence: 1156 (from Bavaria)

National holiday: National Day, 26 October (1955); note -
commemorates the passage of the law on permanent neutrality

Constitution: 1920; revised 1929 (reinstated 1 May 1945)

Legal system: civil law system with Roman law origin; judicial
review of legislative acts by the Constitutional Court; separate
administrative and civil/penal supreme courts; has not accepted
compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Suffrage: 19 years of age; universal; compulsory for presidential
elections

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Thomas KLESTIL (since 8
July 1992)

head of government:  Chancellor Wolfgang SCHUESSEL (OeVP)(since 4
February 2000); Vice Chancellor Susanne RIESS-PASSER (FPOe) (since 4
February 2000)

cabinet:  Council of Ministers chosen by the president on the advice
of the chancellor

elections:  president elected by direct popular vote for a six-year
term; presidential election last held 19 April 1998 (next to be held
in the spring of 2004); chancellor traditionally chosen by the
president from the plurality party in the National Council; in the
case of the current coalition, the chancellor was chosen from
another party after the plurality party failed to form a government;
vice chancellor chosen by the president on the advice of the
chancellor

election results:  Thomas KLESTIL reelected president; percent of
vote - Thomas KLESTIL 63%, Gertraud KNOLL 14%, Heide SCHMIDT 11%,
Richard LUGNER 10%, Karl NOWAK 2%

note:  government coalition - OeVP and FPOe

Legislative branch: bicameral Federal Assembly or Bundesversammlung
consists of Federal Council or Bundesrat (64 members; members
represent each of the states on the basis of population, but with
each state having at least three representatives; members serve a
four- or six-year term) and the National Council or Nationalrat (183
seats; members elected by direct popular vote to serve four-year
terms)

elections:  National Council - last held 3 October 1999 (next to be
held in the fall of 2003)

election results:  National Council - percent of vote by party -
SPOe 33.2%, OeVP 26.9%, FPOe 26.9%, Greens 7.4%; seats by party -
SPOe 65, OeVP 52, FPOe 52, Greens 14

Judicial branch: Supreme Judicial Court or Oberster Gerichtshof;
Administrative Court or Verwaltungsgerichtshof; Constitutional Court
or Verfassungsgerichtshof

Political parties and leaders: Austrian People's Party or OeVP
[Wolfgang SCHUESSEL]; Freedom Party of Austria or FPOe [Susanne
RIESS-PASSER]; Social Democratic Party of Austria or SPOe [Alfred
GUSENBAUER]; The Greens Alternative or GA [Alexander VAN DER BELLEN]

Political pressure groups and leaders: Austrian Trade Union
Federation (primarily Socialist) or OeGB; Federal Economic Chamber;
OeVP-oriented League of Austrian Industrialists or VOeI; Roman
Catholic Church, including its chief lay organization, Catholic
Action; three composite leagues of the Austrian People's Party or
OeVP representing business, labor, and farmers

International organization participation: AfDB, AsDB, Australia
Group, BIS, BSEC (observer), CCC, CE, CEI, CERN, EAPC, EBRD, ECE,
EIB, EMU, ESA, EU, FAO, G- 9, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU,
ICRM, IDA, IEA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Intelsat, Interpol,
IOC, IOM, ISO, ITU, MINURSO, NAM (guest), NEA, NSG, OAS (observer),
OECD, OPCW, OSCE, PCA, PFP, UN, UNCTAD, UNDOF, UNESCO, UNFICYP,
UNHCR, UNIDO, UNIKOM, UNITAR, UNMEE, UNMIBH, UNMIK, UNMOT, UNOMIG,
UNTAET, UNTSO, UPU, WCL, WEU (observer), WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO,
WTrO, ZC

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Peter MOSER

chancery:  3524 International Court NW, Washington, DC 20008-3035

telephone:  [1] (202) 895-6700

FAX:  [1] (202) 895-6750

consulate(s) general:  Chicago, Los Angeles, and New York

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Kathryn Walt HALL

embassy:  Boltzmanngasse 16, A-1091, Vienna

mailing address:  use embassy street address

telephone:  [43] (1) 313-39-2060

FAX:  [43] (1) 313-39-2057

Flag description: three equal horizontal bands of red (top), white,
and red



Austria    Economy

Economy - overview: Austria with its well-developed market economy
and high standard of living is closely tied to other EU economies,
especially Germany's. Membership in the EU has drawn an influx of
foreign investors attracted by Austria's access to the single
European market and proximity to EU aspirant economies. In 2000,
Austria moved to further cut government spending and raise taxes to
meet EMU deficit targets after facing unexpected difficulties in
reducing the public deficit. To meet increased competition from both
EU and Central European countries, Austria will need to emphasize
knowledge-based sectors of the economy and continue to deregulate
the service sector. Growth is expected to remain at about 3% in 2001.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $203 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 3.1% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $25,000 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  2.2%

industry:  30.4%

services:  67.4% (1999 est.)

Population below poverty line: NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 2% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 3.7 million (1999)

Labor force - by occupation: services 68%, industry and crafts 29%,
agriculture and forestry 3% (1999 est.)

Unemployment rate: 5.4% (2000 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $56.3 billion

expenditures:  $60.5 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
(2000 est.)

Industries: construction, machinery, vehicles and parts, food,
chemicals, lumber and wood processing, paper and paperboard,
communications equipment, tourism

Industrial production growth rate: 4.2% (2000)

Electricity - production: 59.283 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  29.53%

hydro:  67.65%

nuclear:  0%

other:  2.82% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 53.231 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 13.507 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 11.605 billion kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: grains, potatoes, sugar beets, wine, fruit;
dairy products, cattle, pigs, poultry; lumber

Exports: $63.2 billion (2000 est.)

Exports - commodities: machinery and equipment, paper and
paperboard, metal goods, chemicals, iron and steel; textiles,
foodstuffs

Exports - partners: EU 64.2% (Germany 35.7%, Italy 8.7%, France
4.5%), Switzerland 5.9%, US 4.5%, Hungary 3.9% (1999)

Imports: $65.6 billion (2000 est.)

Imports - commodities: machinery and equipment, chemicals, metal
goods, oil and oil products; foodstuffs

Imports - partners: EU 70.3% (Germany 42.5%, Italy 7.9%, France
5.3%), US 5.4%, Switzerland 3.0%, Hungary 2.8% (1999)

Debt - external: $16 billion (1999)

Economic aid - donor: ODA, $472 million (1999)

Currency: Austrian schilling (ATS); euro (EUR)

note:  on 1 January 1999, the EU introduced the euro as a common
currency that is now being used by financial institutions in Austria
at a fixed rate of 13.7603 Austrian shillings per euro and will
replace the local currency for all transactions in 2002

Currency code: ATS; EUR

Exchange rates: euros per US dollar - 1.0659 (January 2001), 1.0854
(2000), 0.9386 (1999); Austrian schillings per US dollar - 11.86
(January 1999), 12.91 (1999), 12.379 (1998), 12.204 (1997), 10.587
(1996)

Fiscal year: calendar year



Austria    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 4 million (3,600,000 analog main
lines plus 400,000 ISDN or Integrated Services Digital Network
connections) (1999)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 4.5 million (2000)

Telephone system: general assessment:  highly developed and efficient

domestic:  there are 48 main lines for every 100 persons and the
system is nearly 100% digital; the fiber optic net is very
extensive; all telephone applications and Internet services are
available

international:  satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat (1 Atlantic
Ocean and 1 Indian Ocean) and 2 Eutelsat (1999)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 1, FM 61 (plus several hundred
repeaters), shortwave 1 (1998)

Radios: 6.08 million (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 45 (plus 960 repeaters) (1995)

Televisions: 4.25 million (1997)

Internet country code: .at

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 37 (2000)

Internet users: 2.6 million (2000)



Austria    Transportation

Railways: total:  6,095.2 km (3,643.3 km electrified)

standard gauge:  5,564.2 km 1.435-m gauge (3,521.2 km electrified)

narrow gauge:  497.1 km (33.9 km 1.000-m gauge - 28.1 km
electrified, 497.1 km 0.760-m gauge - 94 km electrified) (2001)

Highways: total:  133,361 km

paved:  133,361 km (including 1,613 km of expressways)

unpaved:  0 km (1998)

Waterways: 358 km (1999)

Pipelines: crude oil 777 km; natural gas 840 km (1999)

Ports and harbors: Linz, Vienna, Enns, Krems

Merchant marine: total:  23 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
86,905 GRT/117,417 DWT

ships by type:  bulk 1, cargo 18, combination bulk 2, container 2
(2000 est.)

Airports: 55 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  24

over 3,047 m:  1

2,438 to 3,047 m:  5

1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

914 to 1,523 m:  3

under 914 m:  14 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  31

1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

914 to 1,523 m:  3

under 914 m:  27 (2000 est.)

Heliports: 1 (2000 est.)



Austria    Military

Military branches: Army (includes Flying Division)

Military manpower - military age: 19 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  2,091,263 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
1,731,383 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  50,580
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $1.7 billion (FY98)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 1.2% (FY98)



Austria    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: minor disputes with Czech Republic and
Slovenia over nuclear power plants and post-World War II treatment
of German-speaking minorities

Illicit drugs: transshipment point for Southwest Asian heroin and
South American cocaine destined for Western Europe

======================================================================

@Azerbaijan




Azerbaijan    Introduction

Background: Azerbaijan - a nation of Turkic Muslims - has been an
independent republic since the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991.
Despite a cease-fire, in place since 1994, Azerbaijan has yet to
resolve its conflict with Armenia over the Azerbaijani
Nagorno-Karabakh enclave (largely Armenian populated). Azerbaijan
has lost almost 20% of its territory and must support some 750,000
refugees and internally displaced persons (IDPs) as a result of the
conflict. Corruption is ubiquitous and the promise of widespread
wealth from Azerbaijan's undeveloped petroleum resources remains
largely unfulfilled.



Azerbaijan    Geography

Location: Southwestern Asia, bordering the Caspian Sea, between Iran
and Russia

Geographic coordinates: 40 30 N, 47 30 E

Map references: Commonwealth of Independent States

Area: total:  86,600 sq km

land:  86,100 sq km

water:  500 sq km

note:  includes the exclave of Naxcivan Autonomous Republic and the
Nagorno-Karabakh region; the region's autonomy was abolished by
Azerbaijani Supreme Soviet on 26 November 1991

Area - comparative: slightly smaller than Maine

Land boundaries: total:  2,013 km

border countries:  Armenia (with Azerbaijan-proper) 566 km, Armenia
(with Azerbaijan-Naxcivan exclave) 221 km, Georgia 322 km, Iran
(with Azerbaijan-proper) 432 km, Iran (with Azerbaijan-Naxcivan
exclave) 179 km, Russia 284 km, Turkey 9 km

Coastline: 0 km (landlocked); note - Azerbaijan borders the Caspian
Sea (800 km, est.)

Maritime claims: none (landlocked)

Climate: dry, semiarid steppe

Terrain: large, flat Kur-Araz Ovaligi (Kura-Araks Lowland) (much of
it below sea level) with Great Caucasus Mountains to the north,
Qarabag Yaylasi (Karabakh Upland) in west; Baku lies on Abseron
Yasaqligi (Apsheron Peninsula) that juts into Caspian Sea

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Caspian Sea -28 m

highest point:  Bazarduzu Dagi 4,485 m

Natural resources: petroleum, natural gas, iron ore, nonferrous
metals, alumina

Land use: arable land:  18%

permanent crops:  5%

permanent pastures:  25%

forests and woodland:  11%

other:  41% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 10,000 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: droughts; some lowland areas threatened by rising
levels of the Caspian Sea

Environment - current issues: local scientists consider the Abseron
Yasaqligi (Apsheron Peninsula) (including Baku and Sumqayit) and the
Caspian Sea to be the ecologically most devastated area in the world
because of severe air, water, and soil pollution; soil pollution
results from the use of DDT as a pesticide and also from toxic
defoliants used in the production of cotton

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification,
Endangered Species, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection

signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Geography - note: landlocked



Azerbaijan    People

Population: 7,771,092 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  28.95% (male 1,146,315; female 1,103,393)

15-64 years:  63.93% (male 2,415,678; female 2,552,759)

65 years and over:  7.12% (male 219,549; female 333,398) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 0.32% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 18.44 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 9.55 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: -5.67 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  0.95 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.66 male(s)/female

total population:  0.95 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 83.08 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  62.96 years

male:  58.65 years

female:  67.49 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 2.24 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: less than 0.01% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: less than 500 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: less than 100 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Azerbaijani(s)

adjective:  Azerbaijani

Ethnic groups: Azeri 90%, Dagestani 3.2%, Russian 2.5%, Armenian 2%,
other 2.3% (1998 est.)

note:  almost all Armenians live in the separatist Nagorno-Karabakh
region

Religions: Muslim 93.4%, Russian Orthodox 2.5%, Armenian Orthodox
2.3%, other 1.8% (1995 est.)

note:  religious affiliation is still nominal in Azerbaijan;
percentages for actual practicing adherents are much lower

Languages: Azerbaijani (Azeri) 89%, Russian 3%, Armenian 2%, other
6% (1995 est.)

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  97%

male:  99%

female:  96% (1989 est.)



Azerbaijan    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Republic of Azerbaijan

conventional short form:  Azerbaijan

local long form:  Azarbaycan Respublikasi

local short form:  none

former:  Azerbaijan Soviet Socialist Republic

Government type: republic

Capital: Baku (Baki)

Administrative divisions: 59 rayons (rayonlar; rayon - singular), 11
cities* (saharlar; sahar - singular), 1 autonomous republic**
(muxtar respublika); Abseron Rayonu, Agcabadi Rayonu, Agdam Rayonu,
Agdas Rayonu, Agstafa Rayonu, Agsu Rayonu, Ali Bayramli Sahari*,
Astara Rayonu, Baki Sahari*, Balakan Rayonu, Barda Rayonu, Beylaqan
Rayonu, Bilasuvar Rayonu, Cabrayil Rayonu, Calilabad Rayonu,
Daskasan Rayonu, Davaci Rayonu, Fuzuli Rayonu, Gadabay Rayonu, Ganca
Sahari*, Goranboy Rayonu, Goycay Rayonu, Haciqabul Rayonu, Imisli
Rayonu, Ismayilli Rayonu, Kalbacar Rayonu, Kurdamir Rayonu, Lacin
Rayonu, Lankaran Rayonu, Lankaran Sahari*, Lerik Rayonu, Masalli
Rayonu, Mingacevir Sahari*, Naftalan Sahari*, Naxcivan Muxtar
Respublikasi**, Neftcala Rayonu, Oguz Rayonu, Qabala Rayonu, Qax
Rayonu, Qazax Rayonu, Qobustan Rayonu, Quba Rayonu, Qubadli Rayonu,
Qusar Rayonu, Saatli Rayonu, Sabirabad Rayonu, Saki Rayonu, Saki
Sahari*, Salyan Rayonu, Samaxi Rayonu, Samkir Rayonu, Samux Rayonu,
Siyazan Rayonu, Sumqayit Sahari*, Susa Rayonu, Susa Sahari*, Tartar
Rayonu, Tovuz Rayonu, Ucar Rayonu, Xacmaz Rayonu, Xankandi Sahari*,
Xanlar Rayonu, Xizi Rayonu, Xocali Rayonu, Xocavand Rayonu, Yardimli
Rayonu, Yevlax Rayonu, Yevlax Sahari*, Zangilan Rayonu, Zaqatala
Rayonu, Zardab Rayonu

Independence: 30 August 1991 (from Soviet Union)

National holiday: Founding of the Democratic Republic of
Azerbaidzhan, 28 May (1918)

Constitution: adopted 12 November 1995

Legal system: based on civil law system

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Heydar ALIYEV (since 18
June 1993)

head of government:  Prime Minister Artur RASIZADE (since 26
November 1996)

cabinet:  Council of Ministers appointed by the president and
confirmed by the National Assembly

elections:  president elected by popular vote to a five-year term;
election last held 11 October 1998 (next to be held NA October
2003); prime minister and first deputy prime ministers appointed by
the president and confirmed by the National Assembly

election results:  Heydar ALIYEV reelected president; percent of
vote - Heydar ALIYEV 77.6%, Etibar MAMEDOV 11.8%, Nizami SULEYMANOV
8.2%

Legislative branch: unicameral National Assembly or Milli Mejlis
(125 seats; members elected by popular vote to serve five-year terms)

elections:  last held 4 November 2000 (next to be held NA November
2005)

election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
NAP and allies 108, APF 6, CSP 3, PNIA 2, Musavat Party 2, CPA 2,
APF "traditionalist" 1, Compatriot Party 1

Judicial branch: Supreme Court

Political parties and leaders: Alliance for Azerbaijan Party
[Abutalyb SAMADOV]; Azerbaijani Democratic Party or ADP [Sardar
JALAL]; Azerbaijani Independent Democratic Party or AMDP [Leyla
YUNUSOVA]; Azerbaijan Popular Front or APF [Ali KERIMOV, leader of
"reform faction"; Mirmahmud FATTAYEV, leader of "traditionalist"
faction]; Civic Solidarity Party or CSP [Sabir RUSTAMKHANLY]; Civic
Union Party [Ayaz MUTALIBOV]; Communist Party of Azerbaijan or CPA
[Ramiz AHMADOV]; Communist Party of Azerbaijan or CPA-2 [Firudin
HASANOV]; Compatriot Party [Mais SAFARLI]; Democratic Enlightenment
Party [Mammadhanifu MUSAYEV]; Democratic Party for Azerbaijan or DPA
[Ilyus ISMAILOV and Rasul QULIYEV, co-chairman]; Democratic World
Party of Azerbaijan [Mamnad ALIZADE]; Liberal Party of Azerbaijan
[Lala Shvkat HAJIYEVA]; Motherland Party [Fazail AGAMALI]; National
Congress Party of Azerbaijan [Ihtiyar SHIRIN]; National Movement
Party [Samir JAFAROV]; National Statehood Party [Sabir
TARIVERDIYEV]; Musavat [Isa GAMBAR, chairman]; New Azerbaijan Party
or NAP [Heydar ALIYEV, chairman]; Party for National Independence of
Azerbaijan or PNIA [Etibar MAMMADOV, chairman]; People's Democratic
Party of Azerbaijan or PDPA [Rafig TURABKHANOGLU]; Social Democratic
Party of Azerbaijan or SDP [Zardusht ALIZADE, chairman]

note:  opposition parties regularly factionalize and form new parties

Political pressure groups and leaders: Sadval, Lezgin movement;
self-proclaimed Armenian Nagorno-Karabakh Republic; Talysh
independence movement

International organization participation: AsDB, BSEC, CCC, CE, CIS,
EAPC, EBRD, ECE, ECO, ESCAP, FAO, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IDB,
IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, ISO
(correspondent), ITU, NAM (observer), OAS (observer), OIC, OPCW,
OSCE, PFP, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO,
WTrO (observer)

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Hafiz Mir Jalal PASHAYEV

chancery:  (temporary) Suite 700, 927 15th Street NW, Washington, DC
20005 or P. O. Box 28790, Washington, DC 20038-8790

telephone:  [1] (202) 842-0001

FAX:  [1] (202) 842-0004

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Ross WILSON

embassy:  Azadliq Prospekt 83, Baku 370007

mailing address:  American Embassy Baku, Department of State,
Washington, DC 20521-7050

telephone:  [9] (9412) 98-03-35, 36, 37

FAX:  [9] (9412) 90-66-71

Flag description: three equal horizontal bands of blue (top), red,
and green; a crescent and eight-pointed star in white are centered
in red band



Azerbaijan    Economy

Economy - overview: Azerbaijan's most prominent products are oil,
cotton, and natural gas. Azerbaijan's oil production declined
through 1997 but has registered an increase every year since.
Negotiation of 19 production-sharing arrangements (PSAs) with
foreign firms, which have thus far committed $60 billion to oil
field development, should generate the funds needed to spur future
industrial development. Oil production under the first of these
PSAs, with the Azerbaijan International Operating Company, began in
November 1997. Azerbaijan shares all the formidable problems of the
former Soviet republics in making the transition from a command to a
market economy, but its considerable energy resources brighten its
long-term prospects. Baku has only recently begun making progress on
economic reform, and old economic ties and structures are slowly
being replaced. An obstacle to economic progress, including stepped
up foreign investment, is the continuing conflict with Armenia over
the Nagorno-Karabakh region. Trade with Russia and the other former
Soviet republics is declining in importance while trade is building
up with Turkey, Iran, UAE, and the nations of Europe. Long-term
prospects will depend on world oil prices, the location of new
pipelines in the region, and Azerbaijan's ability to manage its oil
wealth.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $23.5 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 11.4% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $3,000 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  22%

industry:  33%

services:  45% (1999 est.)

Population below poverty line: 60% (2000 est.)

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 1.8% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 2.9 million (1997)

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture and forestry 32%, industry
15%, services 53% (1997)

Unemployment rate: 20% (1999 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $777 million

expenditures:  $995 million, including capital expenditures of $NA
(1999 est.)

Industries: petroleum and natural gas, petroleum products, oilfield
equipment; steel, iron ore, cement; chemicals and petrochemicals;
textiles

Industrial production growth rate: 6.9% (2000 est.)

Electricity - production: 16.378 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  86.46%

hydro:  13.54%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 15.432 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 600 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 800 million kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: cotton, grain, rice, grapes, fruit,
vegetables, tea, tobacco; cattle, pigs, sheep, goats

Exports: $1.9 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Exports - commodities: oil and gas 75%, machinery, cotton, foodstuffs

Exports - partners: Italy, Turkey, Russia, Georgia, Iran

Imports: $1.4 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Imports - commodities: machinery and equipment, foodstuffs, metals,
chemicals

Imports - partners: Russia, Turkey, Ukraine, UAE, Iran

Debt - external: $1 billion (2000)

Economic aid - recipient: ODA, $113 million (1996)

Currency: Azerbaijani manat (AZM)

Currency code: AZM

Exchange rates: Azerbaijani manats per US dollar - 4,579 (1 February
2001), 4,342 (October 1999), 4,373 (1999), 3,869 (1998), 3,985.38
(1997), 4,301.26 (1996)

Fiscal year: calendar year



Azerbaijan    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 663,000 (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 40,000 (1997)

Telephone system: general assessment:  inadequate; requires
considerable expansion and modernization; teledensity of 8.6 main
lines per 100 persons is very low

domestic:  the majority of telephones are in Baku and other
industrial centers - about 700 villages still do not have public
telephone service; satellite service connects Baku to a modern
switch in its exclave of Naxcivan

international:  the old Soviet system of cable and microwave is
still serviceable; a satellite connection to Turkey enables Baku to
reach about 200 additional countries, some of which are directly
connected to Baku by satellite providers other than Turkey (1997)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 10, FM 17, shortwave 1 (1998)

Radios: 175,000 (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 2 (1997)

Televisions: 170,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .az

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 2 (2000)

Internet users: 8,000 (2000)



Azerbaijan    Transportation

Railways: total:  2,125 km in common carrier service; does not
include industrial lines

broad gauge:  2,125 km 1.520-m gauge (1,278 km electrified) (1993)

Highways: total:  24,981 km

paved:  23,057 km (these roads are said to be hard-surfaced, and
include, in addition to conventionally paved roads, some that are
surfaced with gravel or other coarse aggregate, making them
trafficable in all weather)

unpaved:  1,924 km (these roads are made of unstabilized earth and
are difficult to negotiate in wet weather) (1998)

Waterways: none

Pipelines: crude oil 1,130 km; petroleum products 630 km; natural
gas 1,240 km

Ports and harbors: Baku (Baki)

Merchant marine: total:  56 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
253,882 GRT/313,252 DWT

ships by type:  bulk 1, cargo 12, petroleum tanker 40, roll on/roll
off 2, short-sea passenger 1 (2000 est.)

Airports: 52 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  9

2,438 to 3,047 m:  5

1,524 to 2,437 m:  4 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  43

1,524 to 2,437 m:  7

914 to 1,523 m:  8

under 914 m:  28 (2000 est.)



Azerbaijan    Military

Military branches: Army, Navy, Air and Air Defense Forces, Border
Guards

Military manpower - military age: 18 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  2,102,780 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
1,684,673 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  77,099
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $121 million (FY99)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 2.6% (FY99)



Azerbaijan    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: Armenia supports ethnic Armenians in the
Nagorno-Karabakh region of Azerbaijan in the longstanding,
separatist conflict against the Azerbaijani Government; Caspian Sea
boundaries are not yet determined among Azerbaijan, Iran,
Kazakhstan, Russia, and Turkmenistan

Illicit drugs: limited illicit cultivation of cannabis and opium
poppy, mostly for CIS consumption; limited government eradication
program; transshipment point for opiates via Iran, Central Asia, and
Russia to Western Europe

======================================================================

@Bahamas, The




Bahamas, The    Introduction

Background: Since attaining independence from the UK in 1973, The
Bahamas have prospered through tourism and international banking and
investment management. Because of its geography, the country is a
major transshipment point for illegal drugs, particularly shipments
to the US, and its territory is used for smuggling illegal migrants
into the US.



Bahamas, The    Geography

Location: Caribbean, chain of islands in the North Atlantic Ocean,
southeast of Florida

Geographic coordinates: 24 15 N, 76 00 W

Map references: Central America and the Caribbean

Area: total:  13,940 sq km

land:  10,070 sq km

water:  3,870 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly smaller than Connecticut

Land boundaries: 0 km

Coastline: 3,542 km

Maritime claims: continental shelf:  200-m depth or to the depth of
exploitation

exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: tropical marine; moderated by warm waters of Gulf Stream

Terrain: long, flat coral formations with some low rounded hills

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Atlantic Ocean 0 m

highest point:  Mount Alvernia, on Cat Island 63 m

Natural resources: salt, aragonite, timber, arable land

Land use: arable land:  1%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  0%

forests and woodland:  32%

other:  67% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: NA sq km

Natural hazards: hurricanes and other tropical storms that cause
extensive flood and wind damage

Environment - current issues: coral reef decay; solid waste disposal

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification,
Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Nuclear Test
Ban, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands

signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Geography - note: strategic location adjacent to US and Cuba;
extensive island chain



Bahamas, The    People

Population: 297,852

note:  estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
life expectancy, higher infant mortality and death rates, lower
population and growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  29.43% (male 44,179; female 43,486)

15-64 years:  64.46% (male 94,329; female 97,674)

65 years and over:  6.11% (male 7,618; female 10,566) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 0.93% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 19.1 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 7.14 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: -2.65 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.02 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.02 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  0.97 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.72 male(s)/female

total population:  0.96 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 17.03 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  70.46 years

male:  67.27 years

female:  73.71 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 2.3 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 4.13% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 6,900 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: 500 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Bahamian(s)

adjective:  Bahamian

Ethnic groups: black 85%, white 12%, Asian and Hispanic 3%

Religions: Baptist 32%, Anglican 20%, Roman Catholic 19%, Methodist
6%, Church of God 6%, other Protestant 12%, none or unknown 3%,
other 2%

Languages: English, Creole (among Haitian immigrants)

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  98.2%

male:  98.5%

female:  98% (1995 est.)



Bahamas, The    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Commonwealth of The Bahamas

conventional short form:  The Bahamas

Government type: constitutional parliamentary democracy

Capital: Nassau

Administrative divisions: 21 districts; Acklins and Crooked Islands,
Bimini, Cat Island, Exuma, Freeport, Fresh Creek, Governor's
Harbour, Green Turtle Cay, Harbour Island, High Rock, Inagua, Kemps
Bay, Long Island, Marsh Harbour, Mayaguana, New Providence, Nicholls
Town and Berry Islands, Ragged Island, Rock Sound, Sandy Point, San
Salvador and Rum Cay

Independence: 10 July 1973 (from UK)

National holiday: Independence Day, 10 July (1973)

Constitution: 10 July 1973

Legal system: based on English common law

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6
February 1952), represented by Governor General Sir Orville
TURNQUEST (since 2 January 1995)

head of government:  Prime Minister Hubert Alexander INGRAHAM (since
19 August 1992) and Deputy Prime Minister Frank WATSON (since
December 1994)

cabinet:  Cabinet appointed by the governor general on the prime
minister's recommendation

elections:  none; the monarch is hereditary; governor general
appointed by the monarch; prime minister and deputy prime minister
appointed by the governor general

Legislative branch: bicameral Parliament consists of the Senate
(16-member body appointed by the governor general upon the advice of
the prime minister and the opposition leader for five-year terms)
and the House of Assembly (40 seats; members elected by direct
popular vote to serve five-year terms)

elections:  last held 14 March 1997 (next to be held by March 2002)

election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
FNM 35, PLP 5

Judicial branch: Supreme Court; Court of Appeal; magistrates courts

Political parties and leaders: Free National Movement or FNM [Hubert
Alexander INGRAHAM]; Progressive Liberal Party or PLP [Perry
CHRISTIE]

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: ACP, C, Caricom, CCC, CDB,
ECLAC, FAO, G-77, IADB, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, ICRM, IFC, IFRCS, ILO,
IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, ITU, LAES, NAM, OAS,
OPANAL, OPCW, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTrO
(observer)

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Joshua SEARS

chancery:  2220 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone:  [1] (202) 319-2660

FAX:  [1] (202) 319-2668

consulate(s) general:  Miami and New York

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:
Ambassador-designate J. Richard BLANKENSHIP

embassy:  Queen Street, Nassau

mailing address:  local or express mail address: P. O. Box N-8197,
Nassau; stateside address: American Embassy Nassau, P. O. Box
599009, Miami, FL 33159-9009; pouch address: Nassau, Department of
State, Washington, DC 20521-3370

telephone:  [1] (242) 322-1181, 328-2206

FAX:  [1] (242) 356-0222

Flag description: three equal horizontal bands of aquamarine (top),
gold, and aquamarine, with a black equilateral triangle based on the
hoist side



Bahamas, The    Economy

Economy - overview: The Bahamas is a stable, developing nation with
an economy heavily dependent on tourism and offshore banking.
Tourism alone accounts for more than 60% of GDP and directly or
indirectly employs 40% of the archipelago's labor force. Moderate
growth in tourism receipts and a boom in construction of new hotels,
resorts, and residences led to an increase of the country's GDP by
an estimated 3% in 1998, 6% in 1999, and 4.5% in 2000. Manufacturing
and agriculture together contribute only 10% of GDP and show little
growth, despite government incentives aimed at those sectors.
Overall growth prospects in the short run will depend heavily on the
fortunes of the tourism sector and continued sturdy growth in the
US, which accounts for the majority of tourist visitors.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $4.5 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 4.5% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $15,000 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  3%

industry:  7%

services:  90% (1999 est.)

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 1.9% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 156,000 (1999)

Labor force - by occupation: tourism 40%, other services 50%,
industry 5%, agriculture 5% (1995 est.)

Unemployment rate: 9% (1998 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $766 million

expenditures:  $845 million, including capital expenditures of $97
million (FY97/98)

Industries: tourism, banking, cement, oil refining and
transshipment, salt, rum, aragonite, pharmaceuticals, spiral-welded
steel pipe

Industrial production growth rate: NA%

Electricity - production: 1.465 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  100%

hydro:  0%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 1.362 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: citrus, vegetables; poultry

Exports: $376.8 million (2000 est.)

Exports - commodities: pharmaceuticals, cement, rum, crawfish,
refined petroleum products

Exports - partners: US 22.3%, Switzerland 15.6%, UK 15%, Denmark
7.4% (1998)

Imports: $1.73 billion (2000 est.)

Imports - commodities: foodstuffs, manufactured goods, crude oil,
vehicles, electronics

Imports - partners: US 27.3%, Italy 26.5%, Japan 10%, Denmark 4.2%
(1998)

Debt - external: $385.8 million (2000 est.)

Economic aid - recipient: $9.8 million (1995)

Currency: Bahamian dollar (BSD)

Currency code: BSD

Exchange rates: Bahamian dollars per US dollar - 1.000 (fixed rate
pegged to the dollar)

Fiscal year: 1 July - 30 June



Bahamas, The    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 96,000 (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 6,152 (1997)

Telephone system: general assessment:  modern facilities

domestic:  totally automatic system; highly developed

international:  tropospheric scatter and submarine cable to Florida;
3 coaxial submarine cables; satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat
(Atlantic Ocean) (1997)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 3, FM 4, shortwave 0 (1998)

Radios: 215,000 (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 1 (1997)

Televisions: 67,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .bs

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 19 (2000)

Internet users: 15,000 (2000)



Bahamas, The    Transportation

Railways: 0 km

Highways: total:  2,693 km

paved:  1,546 km

unpaved:  1,147 km (1997)

Waterways: none

Ports and harbors: Freeport, Matthew Town, Nassau

Merchant marine: total:  1,049 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
30,000,221 GRT/44,601,471 DWT

ships by type:  bulk 185, cargo 214, chemical tanker 36, combination
bulk 15, combination ore/oil 22, container 66, liquefied gas 33,
livestock carrier 1, multi-functional large-load carrier 4,
passenger 79, passenger/cargo 1, petroleum tanker 182, railcar
carrier 1, refrigerated cargo 118, roll on/roll off 50, short-sea
passenger 15, specialized tanker 3, vehicle carrier 24

note:  includes some foreign-owned ships registered here as a flag
of convenience: Algeria 2, Australia 1, Austria 1, Bermuda 6,
Belgium 14, Canada 1, Cuba 1, Cyprus 2, Denmark 17, Finland 7,
France 9, Germany 9, Greece 89, Hong Kong 7, Indonesia 2, India 1,
Israel 4, Italy 8, Japan 23, Jamaica 1, Kenya 1, Lebanon 2,
Luxembourg 2, Monaco 15, Malaysia 1, Netherlands 16, Norway 139,
Poland 3, Portugal 2, Russia 2, Saudi Arabia 5, Singapore 12, Spain
7, Sweden 14, Syria 1, Switzerland 7, UAE 1, Trinidad and Tobago 2,
UK 67, Ukraine 3, US 50, British Virgin Islands 1, British Virgin
Islands 1 (2000 est.)

Airports: 65 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  36

over 3,047 m:  2

2,438 to 3,047 m:  2

1,524 to 2,437 m:  16

914 to 1,523 m:  13

under 914 m:  3 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  29

914 to 1,523 m:  6

under 914 m:  23 (2000 est.)

Heliports: 1 (2000 est.)



Bahamas, The    Military

Military branches: Royal Bahamas Defense Force (Coast Guard only),
Royal Bahamas Police Force

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $20 million (FY95/96)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: NA%



Bahamas, The    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

Illicit drugs: transshipment point for cocaine and marijuana bound
for US and Europe; banking industry vulnerable to money laundering

======================================================================

@Bahrain




Bahrain    Introduction

Background: Bahrain's small size and central location among Persian
Gulf countries require it to play a delicate balancing act in
foreign affairs among its larger neighbors. Possessing minimal oil
reserves, Bahrain has turned to petroleum processing and refining,
and has transformed itself into an international banking center. The
new amir is pushing economic and political reforms, and has worked
to improve relations with the Shi'a community. In 2001, the
International Court of Justice awarded the Hawar Islands, long
disputed with Qatar, to Bahrain.



Bahrain    Geography

Location: Middle East, archipelago in the Persian Gulf, east of
Saudi Arabia

Geographic coordinates: 26 00 N, 50 33 E

Map references: Middle East

Area: total:  620 sq km

land:  620 sq km

water:  0 sq km

Area - comparative: 3.5 times the size of Washington, DC

Land boundaries: 0 km

Coastline: 161 km

Maritime claims: contiguous zone:  24 NM

continental shelf:  extending to boundaries to be determined

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: arid; mild, pleasant winters; very hot, humid summers

Terrain: mostly low desert plain rising gently to low central
escarpment

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Persian Gulf 0 m

highest point:  Jabal ad Dukhan 122 m

Natural resources: oil, associated and nonassociated natural gas,
fish, pearls

Land use: arable land:  1%

permanent crops:  1%

permanent pastures:  6%

forests and woodland:  0%

other:  92% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 10 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: periodic droughts; dust storms

Environment - current issues: desertification resulting from the
degradation of limited arable land, periods of drought, and dust
storms; coastal degradation (damage to coastlines, coral reefs, and
sea vegetation) resulting from oil spills and other discharges from
large tankers, oil refineries, and distribution stations; no natural
fresh water resources so that groundwater and sea water are the only
sources for all water needs

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Desertification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea,
Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands

signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Geography - note: close to primary Middle Eastern petroleum sources;
strategic location in Persian Gulf which much of Western world's
petroleum must transit to reach open ocean



Bahrain    People

Population: 645,361

note:  includes 228,424 non-nationals (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  29.6% (male 96,697; female 94,330)

15-64 years:  67.43% (male 257,360; female 177,839)

65 years and over:  2.97% (male 9,721; female 9,414) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 1.73% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 20.07 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 3.92 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 1.1 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.03 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.03 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1.45 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  1.03 male(s)/female

total population:  1.29 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 19.77 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  73.2 years

male:  70.81 years

female:  75.67 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 2.79 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 0.15% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: NA

HIV/AIDS - deaths: NA

Nationality: noun:  Bahraini(s)

adjective:  Bahraini

Ethnic groups: Bahraini 63%, Asian 19%, other Arab 10%, Iranian 8%

Religions: Shi'a Muslim 70%, Sunni Muslim 30%

Languages: Arabic, English, Farsi, Urdu

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  85.2%

male:  89.1%

female:  79.4% (1995 est.)



Bahrain    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  State of Bahrain

conventional short form:  Bahrain

local long form:  Dawlat al Bahrayn

local short form:  Al Bahrayn

former:  Dilmun

Government type: constitutional monarchy

Capital: Manama

Administrative divisions: 12 municipalities (manatiq, singular -
mintaqah); Al Hadd, Al Manamah, Al Mintaqah al Gharbiyah, Al
Mintaqah al Wusta, Al Mintaqah ash Shamaliyah, Al Muharraq, Ar Rifa'
wa al Mintaqah al Janubiyah, Jidd Hafs, Madinat Hamad, Madinat 'Isa,
Juzur Hawar, Sitrah

note:  all municipalities administered from Manama

Independence: 15 August 1971 (from UK)

National holiday: National Day, 16 December (1971); note - 15 August
1971 is the date of independence from the UK, 16 December 1971 is
the date of independence from British protection

Constitution: adopted late December 2000 (new constitution calls for
a partially elected legislature, a constitutional monarchy, and an
independent judiciary)

Legal system: based on Islamic law and English common law

Suffrage: none

Executive branch: chief of state:  Amir HAMAD bin Isa Al Khalifa
(since 6 March 1999); Heir Apparent Crown Prince SALMAN bin Hamad
(son of the monarch, born 21 October 1969)

head of government:  Prime Minister KHALIFA bin Salman Al Khalifa
(since NA 1971)

cabinet:  Cabinet appointed by the monarch

elections:  none; the monarch is hereditary; prime minister
appointed by the monarch

Legislative branch: unicameral National Assembly was dissolved 26
August 1975 and legislative powers were assumed by the Cabinet;
appointed Advisory Council established 16 December 1992; the
National Action Charter created a bicameral legislature on 23
December 2000; approved by referendum of 14 February 2001

Judicial branch: High Civil Appeals Court

Political parties and leaders: political parties prohibited

Political pressure groups and leaders: Shi'a activists fomented
unrest sporadically 1994-97, demanding the return of an elected
National Assembly and an end to unemployment; several small,
clandestine leftist and Islamic fundamentalist groups are active

International organization participation: ABEDA, AFESD, AL, AMF,
ESCWA, FAO, G-77, GCC, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICRM, IDB, IFC, IFRCS, IHO,
ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, ISO
(correspondent), ITU, NAM, OAPEC, OIC, OPCW, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO,
UNIDO, UPU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTrO

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
(vacant)

chancery:  3502 International Drive NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone:  [1] (202) 342-0741

FAX:  [1] (202) 362-2192

consulate(s) general:  New York

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Johnny YOUNG

embassy:  #979, Road 3119 (next to Al-Ahli Sports Club), Block 321,
Zinj District, Manama

mailing address:  American Embassy Manama, PSC 451, FPO AE
09834-5100; international mail: American Embassy, Box 26431, Manama

telephone:  [973] 273-300

FAX:  [973] 272-594

Flag description: red with a white serrated band (eight white
points) on the hoist side



Bahrain    Economy

Economy - overview: In Bahrain, petroleum production and refining
account for about 60% of export receipts, 60% of government
revenues, and 30% of GDP. With its highly developed communication
and transport facilities, Bahrain is home to numerous multinational
firms with business in the Gulf. Bahrain is dependent on Saudi
Arabia for oil revenue granted as aid. A large share of exports
consists of petroleum products made from imported crude.
Construction proceeds on several major industrial projects.
Unemployment, especially among the young, and the depletion of both
oil and underground water resources are major long-term economic
problems.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $10.1 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 5% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $15,900 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  1%

industry:  46%

services:  53% (1996 est.)

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 2% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 295,000 (1998 est.)

note:  44% of the population in the 15-64 age group is non-national
(July 1998 est.)

Labor force - by occupation: industry, commerce, and service 79%,
government 20%, agriculture 1% (1997 est.)

Unemployment rate: 15% (1998 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $1.8 billion

expenditures:  $2.2 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
(2001 est.)

Industries: petroleum processing and refining, aluminum smelting,
offshore banking, ship repairing; tourism

Industrial production growth rate: 2% (2000 est.)

Electricity - production: 6.185 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  100%

hydro:  0%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 5.752 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: fruit, vegetables; poultry, dairy products;
shrimp, fish

Exports: $5.8 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Exports - commodities: petroleum and petroleum products 61%,
aluminum 7%

Exports - partners: India 14%, Saudi Arabia 5%, US 5%, UAE 5%, Japan
4%, South Korea 4% (1999)

Imports: $4.2 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Imports - commodities: nonoil 59%, crude oil 41%

Imports - partners: France 20%, US 14%, UK 8%, Saudi Arabia 7%,
Japan 5% (1999)

Debt - external: $2.7 billion (2000)

Economic aid - recipient: $48.4 million (1995)

Currency: Bahraini dinar (BHD)

Currency code: BHD

Exchange rates: Bahraini dinars per US dollar - 0.3760 (fixed rate
pegged to the US dollar)

Fiscal year: calendar year



Bahrain    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 152,000 (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 58,543 (1997)

Telephone system: general assessment:  modern system

domestic:  modern fiber-optic integrated services; digital network
with rapidly growing use of mobile cellular telephones

international:  tropospheric scatter to Qatar and UAE; microwave
radio relay to Saudi Arabia; submarine cable to Qatar, UAE, and
Saudi Arabia; satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat (1 Atlantic
Ocean and 1 Indian Ocean) and 1 Arabsat (1997)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 2, FM 3, shortwave 0 (1998)

Radios: 338,000 (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 4 (1997)

Televisions: 275,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .bh

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 1 (2000)

Internet users: 37,500 (2000)



Bahrain    Transportation

Railways: 0 km

Highways: total:  3,164 km

paved:  2,433 km

unpaved:  731 km

note:  there is a paved causeway connecting Bahrain to Saudi Arabia
(1997)

Waterways: none

Pipelines: crude oil 56 km; petroleum products 16 km; natural gas 32
km

Ports and harbors: Manama, Mina' Salman, Sitrah

Merchant marine: total:  7 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
175,609 GRT/207,652 DWT

ships by type:  bulk 2, cargo 3, container 2 (2000 est.)

Airports: 3 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  2

over 3,047 m:  2 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  1

1,524 to 2,437 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Heliports: 1 (2000 est.)



Bahrain    Military

Military branches: Ground Force, Navy, Air Force, Coast Guard,
Police Force

Military manpower - military age: 15 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  222,141 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
121,833 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  5,926
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $318 million (FY99)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 5.2% (FY99)



Bahrain    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: in March of 2001, the International Court
of Justice (ICJ) awarded the Hawar Islands to Bahrain and also
adjusted Bahrain's maritime boundary with Qatar

======================================================================

@Baker Island




Baker Island    Introduction

Background: The US took possession of the island in 1857, and its
guano deposits were mined by US and British companies during the
second half of the 19th century. In 1935, a short-lived attempt at
colonization was begun on this island - as well as on nearby Howland
Island - but was disrupted by World War II and thereafter abandoned.
Presently the island is a National Wildlife Refuge run by the US
Department of the Interior; a day beacon is situated near the middle
of the west coast.



Baker Island    Geography

Location: Oceania, atoll in the North Pacific Ocean, about one-half
of the way from Hawaii to Australia

Geographic coordinates: 0 13 N, 176 31 W

Map references: Oceania

Area: total:  1.4 sq km

land:  1.4 sq km

water:  0 sq km

Area - comparative: about 2.5 times the size of The Mall in
Washington, DC

Land boundaries: 0 km

Coastline: 4.8 km

Maritime claims: exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: equatorial; scant rainfall, constant wind, burning sun

Terrain: low, nearly level coral island surrounded by a narrow
fringing reef

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Pacific Ocean 0 m

highest point:  unnamed location 8 m

Natural resources: guano (deposits worked until 1891), terrestrial
and aquatic wildlife

Land use: arable land:  0%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  0%

forests and woodland:  0%

other:  100%

Irrigated land: 0 sq km (1993)

Natural hazards: the narrow fringing reef surrounding the island can
be a maritime hazard

Environment - current issues: no natural fresh water resources

Geography - note: treeless, sparse, and scattered vegetation
consisting of grasses, prostrate vines, and low growing shrubs;
primarily a nesting, roosting, and foraging habitat for seabirds,
shorebirds, and marine wildlife



Baker Island    People

Population: uninhabited

note:  American civilians evacuated in 1942 after Japanese air and
naval attacks during World War II; occupied by US military during
World War II, but abandoned after the war; public entry is by
special-use permit from US Fish and Wildlife Service only and
generally restricted to scientists and educators; a cemetery and
remnants of structures from early settlement are located near the
middle of the west coast; visited annually by US Fish and Wildlife
Service (July 2001 est.)



Baker Island    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  none

conventional short form:  Baker Island

Dependency status: unincorporated territory of the US; administered
from Washington, DC, by the Fish and Wildlife Service of the US
Department of the Interior as part of the National Wildlife Refuge
system

Legal system: the laws of the US, where applicable, apply

Flag description: the flag of the US is used



Baker Island    Economy

Economy - overview: no economic activity



Baker Island    Transportation

Waterways: none

Ports and harbors: none; offshore anchorage only; note - there is
one small boat landing area along the middle of the west coast

Airports: 1 abandoned World War II runway of 1,665 m, completely
covered with vegetation and unusable (2000 est.)

Transportation - note: there is a day beacon near the middle of the
west coast



Baker Island    Military

Military - note: defense is the responsibility of the US; visited
annually by the US Coast Guard



Baker Island    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

======================================================================

@Bangladesh




Bangladesh    Introduction

Background: Bangladesh came into existence in 1971 when Bengali East
Pakistan seceded from its union with West Pakistan. About a third of
this extremely poor country annually floods during the monsoon rainy
season, hampering economic development.



Bangladesh    Geography

Location: Southern Asia, bordering the Bay of Bengal, between Burma
and India

Geographic coordinates: 24 00 N, 90 00 E

Map references: Asia

Area: total:  144,000 sq km

land:  133,910 sq km

water:  10,090 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly smaller than Wisconsin

Land boundaries: total:  4,246 km

border countries:  Burma 193 km, India 4,053 km

Coastline: 580 km

Maritime claims: contiguous zone:  18 NM

continental shelf:  up to the outer limits of the continental margin

exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: tropical; mild winter (October to March); hot, humid summer
(March to June); humid, warm rainy monsoon (June to October)

Terrain: mostly flat alluvial plain; hilly in southeast

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Indian Ocean 0 m

highest point:  Keokradong 1,230 m

Natural resources: natural gas, arable land, timber, coal

Land use: arable land:  73%

permanent crops:  2%

permanent pastures:  5%

forests and woodland:  15%

other:  5% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 31,000 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: droughts, cyclones; much of the country routinely
inundated during the summer monsoon season

Environment - current issues: many people are landless and forced to
live on and cultivate flood-prone land; water-borne diseases
prevalent in surface water; water pollution, especially of fishing
areas, results from the use of commercial pesticides; ground water
contaminated by naturally-occurring arsenic; intermittent water
shortages because of falling water tables in the northern and
central parts of the country; soil degradation and erosion;
deforestation; severe overpopulation

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental
Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer
Protection, Wetlands

signed, but not ratified:  Law of the Sea



Bangladesh    People

Population: 131,269,860 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  35.04% (male 23,550,607; female
22,451,006)

15-64 years:  61.6% (male 41,432,123; female 39,434,633)

65 years and over:  3.36% (male 2,389,639; female 2,011,852) (2001
est.)

Population growth rate: 1.59% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 25.3 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 8.6 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: -0.76 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.06 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  1.19 male(s)/female

total population:  1.05 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 69.85 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  60.54 years

male:  60.74 years

female:  60.33 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 2.78 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 0.02% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 13,000 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: 1,000 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Bangladeshi(s)

adjective:  Bangladeshi

Ethnic groups: Bengali 98%, tribal groups, non-Bengali Muslims (1998)

Religions: Muslim 83%, Hindu 16%, other 1% (1998)

Languages: Bangla (official, also known as Bengali), English

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  56%

male:  63%

female:  49% (2000 est.)



Bangladesh    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  People's Republic of
Bangladesh

conventional short form:  Bangladesh

former:  East Pakistan

Government type: parliamentary democracy

Capital: Dhaka

Administrative divisions: 5 divisions; Barisal, Chittagong, Dhaka,
Khulna, Rajshahi; note - there may be one additional division named
Sylhet

Independence: 16 December 1971 (from West Pakistan); note - 26 March
1971 is the date of independence from West Pakistan, 16 December
1971 is known as Victory Day and commemorates the official creation
of the state of Bangladesh

National holiday: Independence Day, 26 March (1971); note - 26 March
1971 is the date of independence from West Pakistan, 16 December
1971 is Victory Day and commemorates the official creation of the
state of Bangladesh

Constitution: 4 November 1972, effective 16 December 1972, suspended
following coup of 24 March 1982, restored 10 November 1986, amended
many times

Legal system: based on English common law

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Shahabuddin AHMED
(since 9 October 1996); note - the president's duties are normally
ceremonial, but with the 13th amendment to the constitution
("Caretaker Government Amendment"), the president's role becomes
significant at times when Parliament is dissolved and a caretaker
government is installed - at presidential direction - to supervise
the elections

head of government:  Prime Minister Sheikh HASINA (since 13 July
1996)

cabinet:  Cabinet selected by the prime minister and appointed by
the president

elections:  president elected by National Parliament for a five-year
term; election last held 24 July 1996 (next to be held by NA October
2001); following legislative elections, the leader of the party that
wins the most seats is usually appointed prime minister by the
president

election results:  Shahabuddin AHMED elected president without
opposition; percent of National Parliament vote - NA%

Legislative branch: unicameral National Parliament or Jatiya Sangsad
(330 seats; 300 elected by popular vote from single territorial
constituencies, 30 seats reserved for women; members serve five-year
terms)

elections:  last held 12 June 1996 (next to be held before 13
October 2001)

election results:  percent of vote by party - AL 33.87%, BNP 30.87%;
seats by party - AL 178, BNP 113, JP 33, JI 3, other 3; note - the
elections of 12 June 1996 brought to power an Awami League
government for the first time in twenty-one years; held under a
neutral, caretaker administration, the elections were characterized
by a peaceful, orderly process and massive voter turnout, ending a
bitter two-year impasse between the former BNP and opposition
parties that had paralyzed National Parliament and led to widespread
street violence

Judicial branch: Supreme Court (the chief justices and other judges
are appointed by the president)

Political parties and leaders: Awami League or AL [Sheikh HASINA];
Bangladesh Communist Party or BCP [Saifuddin Ahmed MANIK];
Bangladesh Nationalist Party or BNP [Khaleda ZIAur Rahman]; Islami
Oikya Jote or IOJ [Azizol HAQ]; Jamaat-E-Islami or JI [Motiur Rahman
NIZAMI]; Jatiya Party or JP [Hussain Mohammad ERSHAD]

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: AsDB, C, CCC, CP, ESCAP,
FAO, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC,
IFRCS, IHO (pending member), ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat,
Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO, ITU, MINURSO, MONUC, NAM, OIC, OPCW, SAARC,
UN, UN Security Council (temporary), UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO,
UNIKOM, UNMEE, UNMIBH, UNMIK, UNMOP, UNMOT, UNOMIG, UNTAET, UNU,
UPU, WCL, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:
Ambassador-designate A. Tariq KARIM

chancery:  3510 International Drive NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone:  [1] (202) 244-0183

consulate(s) general:  Los Angeles and New York

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Mary Ann PETERS

embassy:  Road 27, House 110, Banani, Dhaka

mailing address:  G. P. O. Box 323, Dhaka 1000

telephone:  [880] (2) 8824700 through 8824722

FAX:  [880] (2) 8823744

Flag description: green with a large red disk slightly to the hoist
side of center; the red sun of freedom represents the blood shed to
achieve independence; the green field symbolizes the lush
countryside, and secondarily, the traditional color of Islam



Bangladesh    Economy

Economy - overview: Despite sustained domestic and international
efforts to improve economic and demographic prospects, Bangladesh
remains one of the world's poorest, most densely populated, and
least developed nations. Although more than half of GDP is generated
through the service sector, nearly two-thirds of Bangladeshis are
employed in the agriculture sector, with rice as the single most
important product. Major impediments to growth include frequent
cyclones and floods, inefficient state-owned enterprises, inadequate
port facilities, a rapidly growing labor force that cannot be
absorbed by agriculture, delays in exploiting energy resources
(natural gas), insufficient power supplies, and slow implementation
of economic reforms. Reform is stalled in many instances by
political infighting and corruption at all levels of government.
Even so, Prime Minister Sheikh HASINA's Awami League government has
made some headway improving the climate for foreign investors and
liberalizing the capital markets. Progress on other economic reforms
has been halting because of opposition from the bureaucracy, public
sector unions, and other vested interest groups.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $203 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 5.3% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $1,570 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  30%

industry:  18%

services:  52% (2000 est.)

Population below poverty line: 35.6% (FY95/96 est.)

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:
3.9%

highest 10%:  28.6% (1995-96 est.)

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 5.8% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 64.1 million (1998)

note:  extensive export of labor to Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, UAE, Oman,
Qatar, and Malaysia; workers' remittances estimated at $1.71 billion
in 1998-99

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture 63%, services 26%, industry
11% (FY95/96)

Unemployment rate: 35.2% (1996)

Budget: revenues:  $4.9 billion

expenditures:  $6.8 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
(FY99/00 est.)

Industries: cotton textiles, jute, garments, tea processing, paper
newsprint, cement, chemical fertilizer, light engineering, sugar

Industrial production growth rate: 6.1% (2000 est.)

Electricity - production: 12.06 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  93.7%

hydro:  6.3%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 11.216 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: rice, jute, tea, wheat, sugarcane, potatoes,
tobacco, pulses, oilseeds, spices, fruit; beef, milk, poultry

Exports: $5.9 billion (2000)

Exports - commodities: garments, jute and jute goods, leather,
frozen fish and seafood

Exports - partners: US 31.2%, Germany 9.95%, UK 8.06%, France 5.82%,
Italy 4.42% (1999)

Imports: $8.1 billion (2000)

Imports - commodities: machinery and equipment, chemicals, iron and
steel, textiles, raw cotton, food, crude oil and petroleum products,
cement

Imports - partners: India 12.2%, Singapore 7.8%, Japan 6.7%, China
6.4%, US 5.3% (1999)

Debt - external: $17 billion (2000)

Economic aid - recipient: $1.575 billion (2000 est.)

Currency: taka (BDT)

Currency code: BDT

Exchange rates: taka per US dollar - 54.000 (January 2001), 52.142
(2000), 49.085 (1999), 46.906 (1998), 43.892 (1997), 41.794 (1996)

Fiscal year: 1 July - 30 June



Bangladesh    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 500,000 (2000)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 283,000 (2000)

Telephone system: general assessment:  totally inadequate for a
modern country

domestic:  modernizing; introducing digital systems; trunk systems
include VHF and UHF microwave radio relay links, and some
fiber-optic cable in cities

international:  satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat (Indian
Ocean); international radiotelephone communications and landline
service to neighboring countries (2000)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 12, FM 12, shortwave 2 (1999)

Radios: 6.15 million (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 15 (1999)

Televisions: 770,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .bd

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 10 (2000)

Internet users: 30,000 (2000)



Bangladesh    Transportation

Railways: total:  2,745 km

broad gauge:  923 km 1.676-m gauge

narrow gauge:  1,822 km 1.000-m gauge (2000)

Highways: total:  201,182 km

paved:  19,112 km

unpaved:  182,070 km (1997)

Waterways: up to 8,046 km depending on season

note:  includes 3,058 km main cargo routes

Pipelines: natural gas 1,250 km

Ports and harbors: Chittagong, Dhaka, Mongla Port, Narayanganj (2001)

Merchant marine: total:  35 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
268,566 GRT/375,110 DWT

ships by type:  bulk 2, cargo 25, container 3, petroleum tanker 2,
refrigerated cargo 1, roll on/roll off 2 (2000 est.)

Airports: 18 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  15

over 3,047 m:  2

2,438 to 3,047 m:  3

1,524 to 2,437 m:  4

914 to 1,523 m:  1

under 914 m:  5 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  3

1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

under 914 m:  2 (2000 est.)



Bangladesh    Military

Military branches: Army, Navy, Coast Guard, Air Force, paramilitary
forces (includes Bangladesh Rifles, Bangladesh Ansars, Village
Defense Parties, National Cadet Corps), Armed Police battalions

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  36,005,553 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
21,362,279 (2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $559 million (FY96/97)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 1.8% (FY96/97)



Bangladesh    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: a portion of the boundary with India is
indefinite; exchange of 151 enclaves along border with India subject
to ratification by Indian parliament; dispute with India over South
Talpatty/New Moore Island

Illicit drugs: transit country for illegal drugs produced in
neighboring countries

======================================================================

@Barbados




Barbados    Introduction

Background: The island was uninhabited when first settled by the
British in 1627. Its economy remained heavily dependent on sugar,
rum, and molasses production through most of the 20th century. In
the 1990s, tourism and manufacturing surpassed the sugar industry in
economic importance.



Barbados    Geography

Location: Caribbean, island between the Caribbean Sea and the North
Atlantic Ocean, northeast of Venezuela

Geographic coordinates: 13 10 N, 59 32 W

Map references: Central America and the Caribbean

Area: total:  430 sq km

land:  430 sq km

water:  0 sq km

Area - comparative: 2.5 times the size of Washington, DC

Land boundaries: 0 km

Coastline: 97 km

Maritime claims: exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: tropical; rainy season (June to October)

Terrain: relatively flat; rises gently to central highland region

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Atlantic Ocean 0 m

highest point:  Mount Hillaby 336 m

Natural resources: petroleum, fish, natural gas

Land use: arable land:  37%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  5%

forests and woodland:  12%

other:  46% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: NA sq km

Natural hazards: infrequent hurricanes; periodic landslides

Environment - current issues: pollution of coastal waters from waste
disposal by ships; soil erosion; illegal solid waste disposal
threatens contamination of aquifers

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Climate Change,
Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer
Protection, Ship Pollution

signed, but not ratified:  Biodiversity

Geography - note: easternmost Caribbean island



Barbados    People

Population: 275,330 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  21.68% (male 30,122; female 29,572)

15-64 years:  69.44% (male 93,283; female 97,915)

65 years and over:  8.88% (male 9,432; female 15,006) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 0.46% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 13.47 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 8.53 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: -0.32 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.01 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.02 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  0.95 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.63 male(s)/female

total population:  0.93 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 12.04 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  73.25 years

male:  70.66 years

female:  75.86 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 1.64 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 1.17% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 1,800 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: 130 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Barbadian(s) or Bajan (colloquial)

adjective:  Barbadian or Bajan (colloquial)

Ethnic groups: black 80%, white 4%, other 16%

Religions: Protestant 67% (Anglican 40%, Pentecostal 8%, Methodist
7%, other 12%), Roman Catholic 4%, none 17%, other 12%

Languages: English

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over has ever attended school

total population:  97.4%

male:  98%

female:  96.8% (1995 est.)



Barbados    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  none

conventional short form:  Barbados

Government type: parliamentary democracy; independent sovereign
state within the Commonwealth

Capital: Bridgetown

Administrative divisions: 11 parishes; Christ Church, Saint Andrew,
Saint George, Saint James, Saint John, Saint Joseph, Saint Lucy,
Saint Michael, Saint Peter, Saint Philip, Saint Thomas; note - the
city of Bridgetown may be given parish status

Independence: 30 November 1966 (from UK)

National holiday: Independence Day, 30 November (1966)

Constitution: 30 November 1966

Legal system: English common law; no judicial review of legislative
acts

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6
February 1952), represented by Governor General Sir Clifford
Straughn HUSBANDS (since 1 June 1996)

head of government:  Prime Minister Owen Seymour ARTHUR (since 6
September 1994); Deputy Prime Minister Billie MILLER (since 6
September 1994)

cabinet:  Cabinet appointed by the governor general on the advice of
the prime minister

elections:  none; the monarch is hereditary; governor general
appointed by the monarch; prime minister appointed by the governor
general

Legislative branch: bicameral Parliament consists of the Senate
(21-member body appointed by the governor general) and the House of
Assembly (28 seats; members are elected by direct popular vote to
serve five-year terms)

elections:  House of Assembly - last held 20 January 1999 (next to
be held by January 2004)

election results:  House of Assembly - percent of vote by party -
NA%; seats by party - BLP 26, DLP 2

Judicial branch: Supreme Court of Judicature (judges are appointed
by the Service Commissions for the Judicial and Legal Services)

Political parties and leaders: Barbados Labor Party or BLP [Owen
ARTHUR]; Democratic Labor Party or DLP [David THOMPSON]; National
Democratic Party or NDP [Richard HAYNES]

Political pressure groups and leaders: Barbados Workers Union [Leroy
TROTMAN]; Clement Payne Labor Union [David COMMISSIONG]; People's
Progressive Movement [Eric SEALY]; Worker's Party of Barbados [Dr.
George BELLE]

International organization participation: ACP, C, Caricom, CCC, CDB,
ECLAC, FAO, G-77, IADB, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, ICRM, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS,
ILO, IMF, IMO, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, ISO, ITU, LAES, NAM, OAS,
OPANAL, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTrO

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Michael KING

chancery:  2144 Wyoming Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone:  [1] (202) 939-9200

FAX:  [1] (202) 332-7467

consulate(s) general:  Miami and New York

consulate(s):  Los Angeles

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
James A. DALEY

embassy:  Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce Building, Broad Street,
Bridgetown

mailing address:  P. O. Box 302, Bridgetown; FPO AA 34055

telephone:  [1] (246) 436-4950

FAX:  [1] (246) 429-5246

Flag description: three equal vertical bands of blue (hoist side),
gold, and blue with the head of a black trident centered on the gold
band; the trident head represents independence and a break with the
past (the colonial coat of arms contained a complete trident)



Barbados    Economy

Economy - overview: Historically, the Barbadian economy had been
dependent on sugarcane cultivation and related activities, but
production in recent years has diversified into manufacturing and
tourism. The start of the Port Charles Marina project in
Speightstown helped the tourism industry continue to expand in
1996-2000. Offshore finance and information services are important
foreign exchange earners, and there is also a light manufacturing
sector. The government continues its efforts to reduce unemployment,
encourage direct foreign investment, and privatize remaining
state-owned enterprises. Growth should remain steady in 2001, with
new tourist facilities a plus factor.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $4 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 2.8% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $14,500 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  4%

industry:  16%

services:  80% (1998)

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 2% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 136,000 (1998 est.)

Labor force - by occupation: services 75%, industry 15%, agriculture
10% (1996 est.)

Unemployment rate: 11% (1999 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $725.5 million

expenditures:  $750.6 million, including capital expenditures of
$126.3 million (FY97/98 est.)

Industries: tourism, sugar, light manufacturing, component assembly
for export

Industrial production growth rate: 0.8% (1996)

Electricity - production: 718 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  100%

hydro:  0%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 667.7 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: sugarcane, vegetables, cotton

Exports: $260 million (2000 est.)

Exports - commodities: sugar and molasses, rum, other foods and
beverages, chemicals, electrical components, clothing

Exports - partners: UK 14.8%, US 11.6%, Trinidad and Tobago 7.6%,
Venezuela 6.1%, Jamaica 5.8% (1998)

Imports: $800.3 million (2000 est.)

Imports - commodities: consumer goods, machinery, foodstuffs,
construction materials, chemicals, fuel, electrical components

Imports - partners: US 30.7%, Trinidad and Tobago 10.2%, Japan 8.3%,
UK 7.7%, Canada 2.2% (1998)

Debt - external: $425 million (2000 est.)

Economic aid - recipient: $9.1 million (1995)

Currency: Barbadian dollar (BBD)

Currency code: BBD

Exchange rates: Barbadian dollars per US dollar - 2.0000 (fixed rate
pegged to the US dollar)

Fiscal year: 1 April - 31 March



Barbados    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 108,000 (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 8,013 (1997)

Telephone system: general assessment:  NA

domestic:  island-wide automatic telephone system

international:  satellite earth stations - 4 Intelsat (Atlantic
Ocean); tropospheric scatter to Trinidad and Saint Lucia

Radio broadcast stations: AM 2, FM 3, shortwave 0 (1998)

Radios: 237,000 (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 1 (plus two cable channels) (1997)

Televisions: 76,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .bb

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 19 (2000)

Internet users: 6,000 (2000)



Barbados    Transportation

Railways: 0 km

Highways: total:  1,600 km

paved:  1,578 km

unpaved:  22 km (1998)

Waterways: none

Ports and harbors: Bridgetown, Speightstown (Port Charles Marina)

Merchant marine: total:  47 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
671,545 GRT/1,125,635 DWT

ships by type:  bulk 10, cargo 28, combination bulk 1, container 2,
petroleum tanker 4, refrigerated cargo 1, roll on/roll off 1

note:  includes some foreign-owned ships registered here as a flag
of convenience: Canada 2, Hong Kong 1 (2000 est.)

Airports: 1 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  1

over 3,047 m:  1 (2000 est.)



Barbados    Military

Military branches: Royal Barbados Defense Force (includes Ground
Forces and Coast Guard), Royal Barbados Police Force

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  78,069 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
53,576 (2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $NA

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: NA%



Barbados    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

Illicit drugs: one of many Caribbean transshipment points for
narcotics bound for Europe and the US

======================================================================

@Bassas da India




Bassas da India    Introduction

Background: This atoll is a volcanic rock surrounded by reefs and is
awash at high tide. A French possession since 1897, it was placed
under the administration of a commissioner residing in Reunion in
1968.



Bassas da India    Geography

Location: Southern Africa, islands in the southern Mozambique
Channel, about one-half of the way from Madagascar to Mozambique

Geographic coordinates: 21 30 S, 39 50 E

Map references: Africa

Area: total:  0.2 sq km

land:  0.2 sq km

water:  0 sq km

Area - comparative: about one-third the size of The Mall in
Washington, DC

Land boundaries: 0 km

Coastline: 35.2 km

Maritime claims: exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: tropical

Terrain: volcanic rock

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Indian Ocean 0 m

highest point:  unnamed location 2.4 m

Natural resources: none

Land use: arable land:  0%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  0%

forests and woodland:  0%

other:  100% (all rock)

Irrigated land: 0 sq km (1993)

Natural hazards: maritime hazard since it is usually under water
during high tide and surrounded by reefs; subject to periodic
cyclones

Environment - current issues: NA



Bassas da India    People

Population: uninhabited (July 2001 est.)



Bassas da India    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  none

conventional short form:  Bassas da India

Dependency status: possession of France; administered by a high
commissioner of the Republic, resident in Reunion

Legal system: the laws of France, where applicable, apply

Flag description: the flag of France is used



Bassas da India    Economy

Economy - overview: no economic activity



Bassas da India    Transportation

Waterways: none

Ports and harbors: none; offshore anchorage only



Bassas da India    Military

Military - note: defense is the responsibility of France



Bassas da India    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: claimed by Madagascar

======================================================================

@Belarus




Belarus    Introduction

Background: After seven decades as a constituent republic of the
USSR, Belarus attained its independence in 1991. It has retained
closer political and economic ties to Russia than any of the other
former Soviet republics. Belarus and Russia signed a treaty on a
two-state union on 8 December 1999 envisioning greater political and
economic integration but, to date, neither side has actively sought
to implement the accord.



Belarus    Geography

Location: Eastern Europe, east of Poland

Geographic coordinates: 53 00 N, 28 00 E

Map references: Commonwealth of Independent States

Area: total:  207,600 sq km

land:  207,600 sq km

water:  0 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly smaller than Kansas

Land boundaries: total:  3,098 km

border countries:  Latvia 141 km, Lithuania 502 km, Poland 605 km,
Russia 959 km, Ukraine 891 km

Coastline: 0 km (landlocked)

Maritime claims: none (landlocked)

Climate: cold winters, cool and moist summers; transitional between
continental and maritime

Terrain: generally flat and contains much marshland

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Nyoman River 90 m

highest point:  Dzyarzhynskaya Hara 346 m

Natural resources: forests, peat deposits, small quantities of oil
and natural gas

Land use: arable land:  29%

permanent crops:  1%

permanent pastures:  15%

forests and woodland:  34%

other:  21% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 1,000 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: NA

Environment - current issues: soil pollution from pesticide use;
southern part of the country contaminated with fallout from 1986
nuclear reactor accident at Chornobyl' in northern Ukraine

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Air Pollution,
Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air Pollution-Sulphur 85,
Biodiversity, Climate Change, Endangered Species, Environmental
Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer
Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands

signed, but not ratified:  Law of the Sea

Geography - note: landlocked



Belarus    People

Population: 10,350,194 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  17.93% (male 947,820; female 908,210)

15-64 years:  68.21% (male 3,428,920; female 3,631,290)

65 years and over:  13.86% (male 473,992; female 959,962) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: -0.15% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 9.57 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 13.97 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 2.89 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  0.94 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.49 male(s)/female

total population:  0.88 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 14.38 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  68.14 years

male:  62.06 years

female:  74.52 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 1.28 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 0.28% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 14,000 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: 400 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Belarusian(s)

adjective:  Belarusian

Ethnic groups: Byelorussian 81.2%, Russian 11.4%, Polish, Ukrainian,
and other 7.4%

Religions: Eastern Orthodox 80%, other (including Roman Catholic,
Protestant, Jewish, and Muslim) 20% (1997 est.)

Languages: Byelorussian, Russian, other

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  98%

male:  99%

female:  97% (1989 est.)



Belarus    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Republic of Belarus

conventional short form:  Belarus

local long form:  Respublika Byelarus'

local short form:  none

former:  Belorussian (Byelorussian) Soviet Socialist Republic

Government type: republic

Capital: Minsk

Administrative divisions: 6 voblastsi (singular - voblasts') and one
municipality* (harady, singular - horad); Brestskaya (Brest),
Homyel'skaya (Homyel'), Horad Minsk*, Hrodzyenskaya (Hrodna),
Mahilyowskaya (Mahilyow), Minskaya, Vitsyebskaya (Vitsyebsk); note -
when using a place name with the adjectival ending 'skaya' the word
voblasts' should be added to the place name

note:  voblasti have the administrative center name following in
parentheses

Independence: 25 August 1991 (from Soviet Union)

National holiday: Independence Day, 3 July (1944); note - 3 July
1944 was the date Minsk was liberated from German troops, 25 August
1991 was the date of independence from the Soviet Union

Constitution: 30 March 1994; revised by national referendum of 24
November 1996 giving the presidency greatly expanded powers and
became effective 27 November 1996

Legal system: based on civil law system

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Aleksandr LUKASHENKO
(since 20 July 1994)

head of government:  Prime Minister Vladimir YERMOSHIN (since 18
February 2000); First Deputy Prime Minister Andrey KOBYAKOV (since
13 March 2000); Deputy Prime Ministers Mikhail DEMCHUK (since 14
July 2000), Mikhail KHORSTOV (since 27 November 2000), Valeriy
KOKOREV (since 23 August 1994), Leonid KOZIK (since 4 February
1997), Gennadiy NOVITSKIY (since 11 February 1997), Aleksandr POPKOV
(since 10 November 1998)

cabinet:  Council of Ministers

elections:  president elected by popular vote for a five-year term;
first election took place 23 June and 10 July 1994 (next to be held
NA; according to the 1994 constitution, the next election should
have been held in 1999, however LUKASHENKO extended his term to 2001
via the November 1996 referendum); prime minister and deputy prime
ministers appointed by the president

election results:  Aleksandr LUKASHENKO elected president; percent
of vote - Aleksandr LUKASHENKO 85%, Vyacheslav KEBICH 15%

Legislative branch: bicameral Parliament or Natsionalnoye Sobranie
consists of the Council of the Republic or Soviet Respubliki (64
seats) and the Chamber of Representatives or Palata Pretsaviteley
(110 seats)

elections:  last held October 2000 (next to be held NA)

election results:  party affiliation data unavailable; under present
political conditions party designations are meaningless

Judicial branch: Supreme Court (judges are appointed by the
president); Constitutional Court (half of the judges appointed by
the president and half appointed by the Chamber of Representatives)

Political parties and leaders: Agrarian Party or AP [Semyon
SHARETSKY, chairman]; Belarusian Communist Party or KPB [Viktor
CHIKIN, chairman]; Belarusian Ecological Green Party (merger of
Belarusian Ecological Party and Green Party of Belarus) [leader NA];
Belarusian Patriotic Movement (Belarusian Patriotic Party) or BPR
[Anatoliy BARANKEVICH, chairman]; Belarusian Popular Front or BNF
[Vintsuk VYACHORKA]; Belarusian Social-Democrat or SDBP [Nikolay
STATKEVICH, chairman]; Belarusian Social-Democratic Party Hromada
[Stanislav SHUSHKEVICH, chairman]; Belarusian Socialist Party
[Vyacheslav KUZNETSOV]; Civic Accord Bloc (United Civic Party) or
CAB [Stanislav BOGDANKEVICH, chairman]; Liberal Democratic Party or
LDPB [Sergei GAYDUKEVICH, chairman]; Party of Communists Belarusian
or PKB [Sergei KALYAKIN, chairman]; Republican Party of Labor and
Justice or RPPS [Anatoliy NETYLKIN, chairman]; Social-Democrat Party
of Popular Accord or PPA [Leanid SECHKA]; Women's Party Nadezhda
[Valentina POLEVIKOVA, chairperson]

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: CCC, CEI, CIS, EAPC, EBRD,
ECE, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICRM, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, Inmarsat,
Intelsat (nonsignatory user), Interpol, IOC, IOM (observer), ISO,
ITU, NAM, NSG, OPCW, OSCE, PCA, PFP, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU,
WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTrO (observer)

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Valeriy TSEPAKLO

chancery:  1619 New Hampshire Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20009

telephone:  [1] (202) 986-1604

FAX:  [1] (202) 986-1805

consulate(s) general:  New York

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Michael KOZAK

embassy:  46 Starovilenskaya St., Minsk 220002

mailing address:  use embassy street address

telephone:  [375] (17) 210-12-83

FAX:  [375] (17) 234-7853

Flag description: red horizontal band (top) and green horizontal
band one-half the width of the red band; a white vertical stripe on
the hoist side bears the Belarusian national ornament in red



Belarus    Economy

Economy - overview: Belarus has seen little structural reform since
1995, when President LUKASHENKO launched the country on the path of
"market socialism." In keeping with this policy, LUKASHENKO
reimposed administrative controls over prices and currency exchange
rates and expanded the state's right to intervene in the management
of private enterprise. In addition to the burdens imposed by
extremely high inflation, businesses have been subject to pressure
on the part of central and local governments, e.g., arbitrary
changes in regulations, numerous rigorous inspections, and
retroactive application of new business regulations prohibiting
practices that had been legal. Further economic problems are two
consecutive bad harvests, 1998-99, and persistent trade deficits.
Close relations with Russia, possibly leading to reunion, color the
pattern of economic developments. For the time being, Belarus
remains self-isolated from the West and its open-market economies.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $78.8 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 4% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $7,500 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  13%

industry:  46%

services:  41% (1999 est.)

Population below poverty line: 22% (1995 est.)

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:
4.9%

highest 10%:  19.4% (1993)

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 200% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 4.8 million (2000)

Labor force - by occupation: industry and construction NA%,
agriculture and forestry NA%, services NA%

Unemployment rate: 2.1% officially registered unemployed (December
2000); large number of underemployed workers

Budget: revenues:  $4 billion

expenditures:  $4.1 billion, including capital expenditures of $180
million (1997 est.)

Industries: metal-cutting machine tools, tractors, trucks, earth
movers, motorcycles, television sets, chemical fibers, fertilizer,
textiles, radios, refrigerators

Industrial production growth rate: 5% (2000 est.)

Electricity - production: 24.911 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  99.9%

hydro:  0.1%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 27.647 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 2.62 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 7.1 billion kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: grain, potatoes, vegetables, sugar beets,
flax; beef, milk

Exports: $7.4 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Exports - commodities: machinery and equipment, chemicals, metals,
textiles, foodstuffs

Exports - partners: Russia 66%, Ukraine, Poland, Germany, Lithuania
(1998)

Imports: $8.3 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Imports - commodities: mineral products, machinery and equipment,
metals, chemicals, foodstuffs

Imports - partners: Russia 54%, Ukraine, Germany, Poland, Lithuania
(1998)

Debt - external: $1 billion (2000 est.)

Economic aid - recipient: $194.3 million (1995)

Currency: Belarusian ruble (BYB/BYR)

Currency code: BYB/BYR

Exchange rates: Belarusian rubles per US dollar - 1,180 (yearend
2000), 730,000 (15 December 1999), 139,000 (25 January 1999), 46,080
(second quarter 1998), 25,964 (1997), 15,500 (yearend 1996); note -
on 1 January 2000, the national currency was redenominated at one
new ruble to 2,000 old rubles

Fiscal year: calendar year



Belarus    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 2.313 million (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 8,167 (1997)

Telephone system: general assessment:  the Ministry of
Telecommunications controls all telecommunications through its
carrier (a joint stock company) Beltelcom which is a monopoly

domestic:  local - Minsk has a digital metropolitan network and a
cellular NMT-450 network; waiting lists for telephones are long;
local service outside Minsk is neglected and poor; intercity -
Belarus has a partly developed fiber-optic backbone system presently
serving at least 13 major cities (1998); Belarus's fiber optics form
synchronous digital hierarchy rings through other countries'
systems; an inadequate analog system remains operational

international:  Belarus is a member of the Trans-European Line
(TEL), Trans-Asia-Europe (TAE) fiber-optic line, and has access to
the Trans-Siberia Line (TSL); three fiber-optic segments provide
connectivity to Latvia, Poland, Russia, and Ukraine; worldwide
service is available to Belarus through this infrastructure;
additional analog lines to Russia; Intelsat, Eutelsat, and
Intersputnik earth stations

Radio broadcast stations: AM 28, FM 37, shortwave 11 (1998)

Radios: 3.02 million (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 47 (plus 27 repeaters) (1995)

Televisions: 2.52 million (1997)

Internet country code: .by

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 4 (2000)

Internet users: 10,000 (2000)



Belarus    Transportation

Railways: total:  5,523 km

broad gauge:  5,523 km 1.520-m gauge (875 km electrified) (2000)

Highways: total:  63,355 km

paved:  60,567 km (these roads are said to be hard-surfaced, and
include, in addition to conventionally paved roads, some that are
surfaced with gravel or other coarse aggregate, making them
trafficable in all weather)

unpaved:  2,788 km (these roads are made of unstabilized earth and
are difficult to negotiate in wet weather) (1998)

Waterways: NA km; note - Belarus has extensive and widely used canal
and river systems

Pipelines: crude oil 1,470 km; refined products 1,100 km; natural
gas 1,980 km (1992)

Ports and harbors: Mazyr

Airports: 136 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  33

over 3,047 m:  2

2,438 to 3,047 m:  19

1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

under 914 m:  11 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  103

over 3,047 m:  3

2,438 to 3,047 m:  10

1,524 to 2,437 m:  11

914 to 1,523 m:  14

under 914 m:  65 (2000 est.)



Belarus    Military

Military branches: Army, Air Force, Air Defense Force, Interior
Ministry Troops, Border Guards

Military manpower - military age: 18 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  2,729,956 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
2,138,743 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  86,396
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $156 million (FY98)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 1.2% (FY98)



Belarus    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

Illicit drugs: limited cultivation of opium poppy and cannabis,
mostly for the domestic market; transshipment point for illicit
drugs to and via Russia, and to the Baltics and Western Europe

======================================================================

@Belgium




Belgium    Introduction

Background: Belgium became independent from the Netherlands in 1830
and was occupied by Germany during World Wars I and II. It has
prospered in the past half century as a modern, technologically
advanced European state and member of NATO and the EU. Tensions
between the Dutch-speaking Flemings of the north and the
French-speaking Walloons of the south have led in recent years to
constitutional amendments granting these regions formal recognition
and autonomy.



Belgium    Geography

Location: Western Europe, bordering the North Sea, between France
and the Netherlands

Geographic coordinates: 50 50 N, 4 00 E

Map references: Europe

Area: total:  30,510 sq km

land:  30,230 sq km

water:  280 sq km

Area - comparative: about the size of Maryland

Land boundaries: total:  1,385 km

border countries:  France 620 km, Germany 167 km, Luxembourg 148 km,
Netherlands 450 km

Coastline: 66 km

Maritime claims: continental shelf:  median line with neighbors

exclusive fishing zone:  median line with neighbors (extends about
68 km from coast)

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: temperate; mild winters, cool summers; rainy, humid, cloudy

Terrain: flat coastal plains in northwest, central rolling hills,
rugged mountains of Ardennes Forest in southeast

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  North Sea 0 m

highest point:  Signal de Botrange 694 m

Natural resources: coal, natural gas

Land use: arable land:  24%

permanent crops:  1%

permanent pastures:  20%

forests and woodland:  21%

other:  34%

Irrigated land: NA sq km

Natural hazards: flooding is a threat in areas of reclaimed coastal
land, protected from the sea by concrete dikes

Environment - current issues: the environment is exposed to intense
pressures from human activities: urbanization, dense transportation
network, industry, intense animal breeding and crop cultivation; air
and water pollution also have repercussions for neighboring
countries; uncertainties regarding federal and regional
responsibilities (now resolved) have impeded progress in tackling
environmental challenges

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Air Pollution,
Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air Pollution-Sulphur 94, Air
Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds, Air Pollution-Sulphur 85,
Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic-Marine Living Resources,
Antarctic Seals, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change,
Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification,
Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Marine Life
Conservation, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship
Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands

signed, but not ratified:  Air Pollution-Persistent Organic
Pollutants, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol

Geography - note: crossroads of Western Europe; majority of West
European capitals within 1,000 km of Brussels which is the seat of
both the EU and NATO



Belgium    People

Population: 10,258,762 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  17.48% (male 916,957; female 876,029)

15-64 years:  65.57% (male 3,390,145; female 3,336,908)

65 years and over:  16.95% (male 709,212; female 1,029,511) (2001
est.)

Population growth rate: 0.16% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 10.74 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 10.1 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 0.97 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1.02 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.69 male(s)/female

total population:  0.96 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 4.7 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  77.96 years

male:  74.63 years

female:  81.46 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 1.61 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 0.15% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 7,700 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: less than 100 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Belgian(s)

adjective:  Belgian

Ethnic groups: Fleming 58%, Walloon 31%, mixed or other 11%

Religions: Roman Catholic 75%, Protestant or other 25%

Languages: Dutch 58%, French 32%, German 10%, legally bilingual
(Dutch and French)

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  98%

male:  NA%

female:  NA%



Belgium    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Kingdom of Belgium

conventional short form:  Belgium

local long form:  Royaume de Belgique/Koninkrijk Belgie

local short form:  Belgique/Belgie

Government type: federal parliamentary democracy under a
constitutional monarch

Capital: Brussels

Administrative divisions: 10 provinces (French: provinces, singular
- province; Flemish: provincien, singular - provincie); Antwerpen,
Brabant Wallon, Hainaut, Liege, Limburg, Luxembourg, Namur,
Oost-Vlaanderen, Vlaams Brabant, West-Vlaanderen; note - the
Brussels Capitol Region is not included within the 10 provinces

Independence: 21 July 1831 (from the Netherlands)

National holiday: Independence Day, 21 July (1831)

Constitution: 7 February 1831, last revised 14 July 1993; parliament
approved a constitutional package creating a federal state

Legal system: civil law system influenced by English constitutional
theory; judicial review of legislative acts; accepts compulsory ICJ
jurisdiction, with reservations

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal and compulsory

Executive branch: chief of state:  King ALBERT II (since 9 August
1993); Heir Apparent Prince PHILIPPE, son of the monarch

head of government:  Prime Minister Guy VERHOFSTADT (since 13 July
1999)

cabinet:  Council of Ministers appointed by the monarch and approved
by Parliament

elections:  none; the monarch is hereditary; prime minister
appointed by the monarch and then approved by Parliament

note:  government coalition - VLD, PRL, PS, SP, AGALEV, and ECOLO

Legislative branch: bicameral Parliament consists of a Senate or
Senaat in Dutch, Senat in French (71 seats; 40 members are directly
elected by popular vote, 31 are indirectly elected; members serve
four-year terms) and a Chamber of Deputies or Kamer van
Volksvertegenwoordigers in Dutch, Chambre des Representants in
French (150 seats; members are directly elected by popular vote on
the basis of proportional representation to serve four-year terms)

elections:  Senate and Chamber of Deputies - last held 13 June 1999
(next to be held in NA 2003)

election results:  Senate - percent of vote by party - VLD 15.4%,
CVP 14.7%, PRL 10.6%, PS 9.7%, VB 9.4%, SP 8.9%, ECOLO 7.4%, AGALEV
7.1%, PSC 6.0%, VU 5.1%; seats by party - VLD 11, CVP 10, PS 10, PRL
9, VB 6, SP 6, ECOLO 6, AGALEV 5, PSC 5, VU 3; Chamber of Deputies -
percent of vote by party - VLD 14.3%, CVP 14.1%, PS 10.2%, PRL
10.1%, VB 9.9%, SP 9.5%, ECOLO 7.4%, AGALEV 7.0%, PSC 5.9%, VU 5.6%;
seats by party - VLD 23, CVP 22, PS 19, PRL 18, VB 15, SP 14, ECOLO
11, PSC 10, AGALEV 9, VU 8, FN 1

note:  as a result of the 1993 constitutional revision that
furthered devolution into a federal state, there are now three
levels of government (federal, regional, and linguistic community)
with a complex division of responsibilities; this reality leaves six
governments each with its own legislative assembly; for other
acronyms of the listed parties see Political parties and leaders

Judicial branch: Supreme Court of Justice or Hof van Cassatie (in
Dutch) or Cour de Cassation (in French) (judges are appointed for
life by the monarch)

Political parties and leaders: AGALEV (Flemish Greens) [Dos
GEYSELS]; ECOLO (Francophone Greens) [no president]; Flemish
Christian Democrats or CVP (Christian People's Party) [Stefaan DE
CLERCK, president]; Flemish Liberal Democrats or VLD [Karel DE
GUCHT, president]; Flemish Socialist Party or SP [Patrick JANSSENS,
president]; Francophone Christian Democrats or PSC (Social Christian
Party) [Joelle MILQUET, president]; Francophone Liberal Reformation
Party or PRL [Daniel DUCARME, president]; Francophone Socialist
Party or PS [Elio DI RUPO, president]; National Front or FN [Daniel
FERET]; Vlaams Blok or VB [Frank VANHECKE]; Volksunie or VU [leader
vacant]; other minor parties

Political pressure groups and leaders: Christian and Socialist Trade
Unions; Federation of Belgian Industries; numerous other
associations representing bankers, manufacturers, middle-class
artisans, and the legal and medical professions; various
organizations represent the cultural interests of Flanders and
Wallonia; various peace groups such as Pax Christi and groups
representing immigrants

International organization participation: ACCT, AfDB, AsDB,
Australia Group, Benelux, BIS, CCC, CE, CERN, EAPC, EBRD, ECE, EIB,
EMU, ESA, EU, FAO, G- 9, G-10, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU,
ICRM, IDA, IEA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat,
Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO, ITU, MINURSO, MONUC, NATO, NEA,
NSG, OAS (observer), OECD, OPCW, OSCE, PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO,
UNHCR, UNIDO, UNMIK, UNMOGIP, UNMOP, UNRWA, UNTSO, UPU, WADB
(nonregional), WCL, WEU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTrO, ZC

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Alexis REYN

chancery:  3330 Garfield Street NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone:  [1] (202) 333-6900

FAX:  [1] (202) 333-3079

consulate(s) general:  Atlanta, Chicago, Los Angeles, and New York

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
(vacant)

embassy:  27 Boulevard du Regent, B-1000 Brussels

mailing address:  PSC 82, Box 002, APO AE 09710

telephone:  [32] (2) 508-2111

FAX:  [32] (2) 511-2725

Flag description: three equal vertical bands of black (hoist side),
yellow, and red; the design was based on the flag of France



Belgium    Economy

Economy - overview: This modern private enterprise economy has
capitalized on its central geographic location, highly developed
transport network, and diversified industrial and commercial base.
Industry is concentrated mainly in the populous Flemish area in the
north, although the government is encouraging investment in the
southern region of Wallonia. With few natural resources, Belgium
must import substantial quantities of raw materials and export a
large volume of manufactures, making its economy unusually dependent
on the state of world markets. About three-quarters of its trade is
with other EU countries. Belgium's public debt is expected to fall
below 100% of GDP in 2002, and the government has succeeded in
balancing is budget. Belgium became a charter member of the European
Monetary Union (EMU) in January 1999. Economic growth in 2000 was
broad based, putting the government in a good position to pursue its
energy market liberalization policies and planned tax cuts.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $259.2 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 4.1% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $25,300 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  1.4%

industry:  26%

services:  72.6% (2000 est.)

Population below poverty line: 4%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:
3.7%

highest 10%:  20.2% (1992)

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 2.2% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 4.34 million (1999)

Labor force - by occupation: services 73%, industry 25%, agriculture
2% (1999 est.)

Unemployment rate: 8.4% (2000 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $114.8 billion

expenditures:  $117 billion, including capital expenditures of $7.6
billion (1999)

Industries: engineering and metal products, motor vehicle assembly,
processed food and beverages, chemicals, basic metals, textiles,
glass, petroleum, coal

Industrial production growth rate: 5.5% (2000 est.)

Electricity - production: 79.829 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  40.01%

hydro:  0.42%

nuclear:  58.33%

other:  1.24% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 75.089 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 8.207 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 9.055 billion kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: sugar beets, fresh vegetables, fruits,
grain, tobacco; beef, veal, pork, milk

Exports: $181.4 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Exports - commodities: machinery and equipment, chemicals, diamonds,
metals and metal products

Exports - partners: EU 76% (Germany 18%, France 18%, Netherlands
12%, UK 10%) (1999)

Imports: $166 billion (c.i.f., 2000)

Imports - commodities: machinery and equipment, chemicals, metals
and metal products

Imports - partners: EU 71% (Germany 18%, Netherlands 17%, France
14%, UK 9%) (1999)

Debt - external: $28.3 billion (1999 est.)

Economic aid - donor: ODA, $764 million (1997)

Currency: Belgian franc (BEF); euro (EUR)

note:  on 1 January 1999, the EU introduced the euro as a common
currency that is now being used by financial institutions in Belgium
at a fixed rate of 40.3399 Belgian francs per euro and will replace
the local currency for all transactions in 2002

Currency code: BEF; EUR

Exchange rates: euros per US dollar - 1.0659 (January 2001), 1.0854
(2000), 0.9386 (1999); Belgian francs per US dollar - 34.77 (January
1999), 36.229 (1998), 35.774 (1997), 30.962 (1996)

Fiscal year: calendar year



Belgium    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 4.769 million (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 974,494 (1997)

Telephone system: general assessment:  highly developed,
technologically advanced, and completely automated domestic and
international telephone and telegraph facilities

domestic:  nationwide cellular telephone system; extensive cable
network; limited microwave radio relay network

international:  5 submarine cables; satellite earth stations - 2
Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean) and 1 Eutelsat

Radio broadcast stations: FM 79, AM 7, shortwave 1 (1998)

Radios: 8.075 million (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 25 (plus 10 repeaters) (1997)

Televisions: 4.72 million (1997)

Internet country code: .be

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 61 (2000)

Internet users: 2.7 million (2000)



Belgium    Transportation

Railways: total:  3,437 km (2,446 km electrified; 2,563 km double
track)

standard gauge:  3,437 km 1.435-m gauge (1998)

Highways: total:  145,774 km

paved:  116,182 km (including 1,674 km of expressways)

unpaved:  29,592 km (1999)

Waterways: 2,043 km (1,528 km in regular commercial use)

Pipelines: crude oil 161 km; petroleum products 1,167 km; natural
gas 3,300 km

Ports and harbors: Antwerp (one of the world's busiest ports),
Brugge, Gent, Hasselt, Liege, Mons, Namur, Oostende, Zeebrugge

Merchant marine: total:  21 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
32,912 GRT/53,161 DWT

ships by type:  cargo 6, chemical tanker 9, petroleum tanker 6 (2000
est.)

Airports: 42 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  24

over 3,047 m:  6

2,438 to 3,047 m:  8

1,524 to 2,437 m:  3

914 to 1,523 m:  1

under 914 m:  6 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  18

914 to 1,523 m:  2

under 914 m:  16 (2000 est.)

Heliports: 1 (2000 est.)



Belgium    Military

Military branches: Army, Navy, Air Force, National Gendarmerie,
Medical Service

Military manpower - military age: 19 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  2,517,596 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
2,079,624 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  63,247
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $2.5 billion (FY01)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 1.2% (FY99)



Belgium    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

Illicit drugs: growing producer of synthetic drugs; transit point
for US-bound ecstasy; source of precursor chemicals for South
American cocaine processors; transshipment point for cocaine,
heroin, hashish, and marijuana entering Western Europe

======================================================================

@Belize




Belize    Introduction

Background: Territorial disputes between the UK and Guatemala
delayed the independence of Belize (formerly British Honduras) until
1981. Guatemala refused to recognize the new nation until 1992.
Tourism has become the mainstay of the economy. The country remains
plagued by high unemployment, growing involvement in the South
American drug trade, and increased urban crime.



Belize    Geography

Location: Middle America, bordering the Caribbean Sea, between
Guatemala and Mexico

Geographic coordinates: 17 15 N, 88 45 W

Map references: Central America and the Caribbean

Area: total:  22,966 sq km

land:  22,806 sq km

water:  160 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly smaller than Massachusetts

Land boundaries: total:  516 km

border countries:  Guatemala 266 km, Mexico 250 km

Coastline: 386 km

Maritime claims: exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM in the north, 3 NM in the south; note - from
the mouth of the Sarstoon River to Ranguana Cay, Belize's
territorial sea is 3 NM; according to Belize's Maritime Areas Act,
1992, the purpose of this limitation is to provide a framework for
the negotiation of a definitive agreement on territorial differences
with Guatemala

Climate: tropical; very hot and humid; rainy season (May to
November); dry season (February to May)

Terrain: flat, swampy coastal plain; low mountains in south

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Caribbean Sea 0 m

highest point:  Victoria Peak 1,160 m

Natural resources: arable land potential, timber, fish, hydropower

Land use: arable land:  10%

permanent crops:  1%

permanent pastures:  2%

forests and woodland:  84%

other:  3% (2000 est.)

Irrigated land: 20 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: frequent, devastating hurricanes (September to
December) and coastal flooding (especially in south)

Environment - current issues: deforestation; water pollution from
sewage, industrial effluents, agricultural runoff; solid waste
disposal

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous
Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution,
Wetlands

signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Geography - note: only country in Central America without a
coastline on the North Pacific Ocean



Belize    People

Population: 256,062 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  42.04% (male 54,876; female 52,780)

15-64 years:  54.43% (male 70,534; female 68,837)

65 years and over:  3.53% (male 4,403; female 4,632) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 2.7% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 31.69 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 4.7 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1.02 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.95 male(s)/female

total population:  1.03 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 25.14 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  71.19 years

male:  68.91 years

female:  73.57 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 4.05 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 2.01% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 2,400 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: 170 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Belizean(s)

adjective:  Belizean

Ethnic groups: mestizo 43.7%, Creole 29.8%, Maya 10%, Garifuna 6.2%,
other 10.3%

Religions: Roman Catholic 62%, Protestant 30% (Anglican 12%,
Methodist 6%, Mennonite 4%, Seventh-Day Adventist 3%, Pentecostal
2%, Jehovah's Witnesses 1%, other 2%), none 2%, other 6% (1980)

Languages: English (official), Spanish, Mayan, Garifuna (Carib),
Creole

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  70.3%

male:  70.3%

female:  70.3% (1991 est.)

note:  other sources list the literacy rate as high as 75%



Belize    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  none

conventional short form:  Belize

former:  British Honduras

Government type: parliamentary democracy

Capital: Belmopan

Administrative divisions: 6 districts; Belize, Cayo, Corozal, Orange
Walk, Stann Creek, Toledo

Independence: 21 September 1981 (from UK)

National holiday: Independence Day, 21 September (1981)

Constitution: 21 September 1981

Legal system: English law

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6
February 1952), represented by Governor General Sir Colville YOUNG
(since 17 November 1993)

head of government:  Prime Minister Said MUSA (since 27 August
1998); Deputy Prime Minister John BRICENO (since 1 September 1998)

cabinet:  Cabinet appointed by the governor general on the advice of
the prime minister

elections:  none; the monarch is hereditary; governor general
appointed by the monarch; governor general appoints the member of
the House of Representatives who is leader of the majority party to
be prime minister

Legislative branch: bicameral National Assembly consists of the
Senate (eight members, five appointed on the advice of the prime
minister, two on the advice of the leader of the opposition, and one
by the governor general; members are appointed for five-year terms);
and the House of Representatives (29 seats; members are elected by
direct popular vote to serve five-year terms)

elections:  House of Representatives - last held 27 August 1998
(next to be held by NA August 2003)

election results:  percent of vote by party - PUP 59.2%, UDP 40.8%;
seats by party - PUP 26, UDP 3

Judicial branch: Supreme Court (the chief justice is appointed by
the governor general on the advice of the prime minister)

Political parties and leaders: People's United Party or PUP [Said
MUSA]; United Democratic Party or UDP [Manuel ESQUIVEL, Dean BARROW,
Doug SINGH]

Political pressure groups and leaders: Society for the Promotion of
Education and Research or SPEAR [Diane HAYLOCK]; United Worker's
Front

International organization participation: ACP, C, Caricom, CDB,
ECLAC, FAO, G-77, IADB, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC,
IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Intelsat (nonsignatory user), Interpol, IOC,
IOM, ITU, LAES, NAM, OAS, OPANAL, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU,
WCL, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTrO

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Lisa M. SHOMAN

chancery:  2535 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone:  [1] (202) 332-9636

FAX:  [1] (202) 332-6888

consulate(s) general:  Los Angeles

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Carolyn CURIEL

embassy:  29 Gabourel Lane and Hutson Street, Belize City

mailing address:  P. O. Box 286, Unit 7401, APO AA 34025

telephone:  [501] (2) 77161

FAX:  [501] (2) 30802

Flag description: blue with a narrow red stripe along the top and
the bottom edges; centered is a large white disk bearing the coat of
arms; the coat of arms features a shield flanked by two workers in
front of a mahogany tree with the related motto SUB UMBRA FLOREO (I
Flourish in the Shade) on a scroll at the bottom, all encircled by a
green garland



Belize    Economy

Economy - overview: The small, essentially private enterprise
economy is based primarily on agriculture, agro-based industry, and
merchandising, with tourism and construction assuming greater
importance. Sugar, the chief crop, accounts for nearly half of
exports, while the banana industry is the country's largest
employer. The government's tough austerity program in 1997 resulted
in an economic slowdown that continued in 1998. The trade deficit
has been growing, mostly as a result of low export prices for sugar
and bananas. The tourist and construction sectors strengthened in
early 1999, supporting growth of 6% in 1999 and 4% in 2000. Aided by
international donors, the government's key short-term objective
remains the reduction of poverty.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $790 million (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 4% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $3,200 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  18%

industry:  24%

services:  58% (2000 est.)

Population below poverty line: 33% (1999 est.)

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 2% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 71,000

note:  shortage of skilled labor and all types of technical
personnel (1997 est.)

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture 38%, industry 32%, services
30% (1994)

Unemployment rate: 12.8% (1999)

Budget: revenues:  $157 million

expenditures:  $279 million, including capital expenditures of $NA
(1999 est.)

Industries: garment production, food processing, tourism,
construction

Industrial production growth rate: 4.6% (1999)

Electricity - production: 185 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  56.76%

hydro:  43.24%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 172.1 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: bananas, coca, citrus, sugarcane; lumber;
fish, cultured shrimp

Exports: $235.7 million (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Exports - commodities: sugar, bananas, citrus, clothing, fish
products, molasses, wood

Exports - partners: US 42%, UK 33%, EU 12%, Caricom 4.8%, Canada 2%,
Mexico 1% (1999)

Imports: $413 million (c.i.f., 2000 est.)

Imports - commodities: machinery and transportation equipment,
manufactured goods; food, beverages, tobacco; fuels, chemicals,
pharmaceuticals

Imports - partners: US 58%, Mexico 12%, UK 5% EU 5%, Central America
5%, Caricom 4% (1998)

Debt - external: $338 million (1998)

Economic aid - recipient: $NA

Currency: Belizean dollar (BZD)

Currency code: BZD

Exchange rates: Belizean dollars per US dollar - 2.0000 (fixed rate
pegged to the US dollar)

Fiscal year: 1 April - 31 March



Belize    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 31,000 (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 3,023 (1997)

Telephone system: general assessment:  above-average system

domestic:  trunk network depends primarily on microwave radio relay

international:  satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 1, FM 12, shortwave 0 (1998)

Radios: 133,000 (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 2 (1997)

Televisions: 41,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .bz

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 2 (2000)

Internet users: 12,000 (2000)



Belize    Transportation

Railways: 0 km

Highways: total:  2,872 km

paved:  488 km

unpaved:  2,384 km (1998 est.)

Waterways: 825 km (river network used by shallow-draft craft;
seasonally navigable)

Ports and harbors: Belize City, Big Creek, Corozol, Punta Gorda

Merchant marine: total:  402 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
1,575,851 GRT/2,241,731 DWT

ships by type:  bulk 27, cargo 265, chemical tanker 6, combination
ore/oil 1, container 14, passenger 1, passenger/cargo 2, petroleum
tanker 56, refrigerated cargo 18, roll on/roll off 7, short-sea
passenger 1, specialized tanker 1, vehicle carrier 3

note:  includes some foreign-owned ships registered here as a flag
of convenience: Cuba 1, Singapore 1, US 1 (2000 est.)

Airports: 44 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  4

1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

914 to 1,523 m:  1

under 914 m:  2 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  40

2,438 to 3,047 m:  1

914 to 1,523 m:  10

under 914 m:  29 (2000 est.)



Belize    Military

Military branches: Belize Defense Force (includes Army, Maritime
Wing, Air Wing, and Volunteer Guard)

Military manpower - military age: 18 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  62,698 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
37,174 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  2,847
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $17 million (FY98/99)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 2.4% (FY98/99)



Belize    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: Guatemala periodically asserts claims to
territory in southern Belize; to deter cross-border squatting, both
states in 2000 agreed to a "line of adjacency" based on the de facto
boundary, which is not recognized by Guatemala

Illicit drugs: minor transshipment point for cocaine; small-scale
illicit producer of cannabis for the international drug trade; minor
money-laundering center

======================================================================

@Benin




Benin    Introduction

Background: Dahomey gained its independence from France in 1960; the
name was changed to Benin in 1975. From 1974 to 1989 the country was
a socialist state; free elections were reestablished in 1991.



Benin    Geography

Location: Western Africa, bordering the North Atlantic Ocean,
between Nigeria and Togo

Geographic coordinates: 9 30 N, 2 15 E

Map references: Africa

Area: total:  112,620 sq km

land:  110,620 sq km

water:  2,000 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly smaller than Pennsylvania

Land boundaries: total:  1,989 km

border countries:  Burkina Faso 306 km, Niger 266 km, Nigeria 773
km, Togo 644 km

Coastline: 121 km

Maritime claims: territorial sea:  200 NM

Climate: tropical; hot, humid in south; semiarid in north

Terrain: mostly flat to undulating plain; some hills and low
mountains

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Atlantic Ocean 0 m

highest point:  Mont Sokbaro 658 m

Natural resources: small offshore oil deposits, limestone, marble,
timber

Land use: arable land:  13%

permanent crops:  4%

permanent pastures:  4%

forests and woodland:  31%

other:  48% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 100 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: hot, dry, dusty harmattan wind may affect north in
winter

Environment - current issues: inadequate supplies of potable water;
poaching threatens wildlife populations; deforestation;
desertification

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental
Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Nuclear Test Ban,
Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands

signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Geography - note: no natural harbors



Benin    People

Population: 6,590,782

note:  estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
life expectancy, higher infant mortality and death rates, lower
population and growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  47.32% (male 1,574,124; female 1,544,741)

15-64 years:  50.38% (male 1,607,900; female 1,712,360)

65 years and over:  2.3% (male 64,756; female 86,901) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 2.97% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 44.23 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 14.51 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.03 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.02 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  0.94 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.75 male(s)/female

total population:  0.97 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 89.68 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  49.94 years

male:  49.02 years

female:  50.88 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 6.23 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 2.45% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 70,000 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: 5,600 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Beninese (singular and plural)

adjective:  Beninese

Ethnic groups: African 99% (42 ethnic groups, most important being
Fon, Adja, Yoruba, Bariba), Europeans 5,500

Religions: indigenous beliefs 50%, Christian 30%, Muslim 20%

Languages: French (official), Fon and Yoruba (most common
vernaculars in south), tribal languages (at least six major ones in
north)

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  37.5%

male:  52.2%

female:  23.6% (2000)



Benin    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Republic of Benin

conventional short form:  Benin

local long form:  Republique du Benin

local short form:  Benin

former:  Dahomey

Government type: republic under multiparty democratic rule; dropped
Marxism-Leninism December 1989; democratic reforms adopted February
1990; transition to multiparty system completed 4 April 1991

Capital: Porto-Novo is the official capital; Cotonou is the seat of
government

Administrative divisions: 6 provinces; Atakora, Atlantique, Borgou,
Mono, Oueme, Zou; note - six additional provinces have been reported
but not confirmed; they are Alibori, Collines, Couffo, Donga,
Littoral, and Plateau; moreover, the term "province" may have been
changed to "department"

Independence: 1 August 1960 (from France)

National holiday: National Day, 1 August (1960)

Constitution: December 1990

Legal system: based on French civil law and customary law; has not
accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Mathieu KEREKOU (since
4 April 1996); note - the president is both the chief of state and
head of government

head of government:  President Mathieu KEREKOU (since 4 April 1996);
note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
government

cabinet:  Council of Ministers appointed by the president

elections:  president reelected by popular vote for a five-year
term; runoff election held 22 March 2001 (next to be held NA March
2006)

election results:  Mathieu KEREKOU reelected president; percent of
vote - Mathieu KEREKOU 84.1%, Bruno AMOUSSOU 15.9%

note:  the four top-ranking contenders following the first round
presidential elections were: Mathieu KEREKOU (incumbent) 45.4%,
Nicephore SOGOLO (former president) 27.1%, Adrien HOUNGBEDJI
(National Assembly Speaker) 12.6%, and Bruno AMOUSSOU (Minister of
State) 8.6%; the second round balloting, originally scheduled for 18
March, was postponed four days because both SOGOLO and HOUNGBEDJI
withdrew alleging electoral fraud; this left KEREKOU to run against
his own Minister of State, AMOUSSOU, in what was termed a "friendly
match"

Legislative branch: unicameral National Assembly or Assemblee
Nationale (83 seats; members are elected by direct popular vote to
serve four-year terms)

elections:  last held 30 March 1999 (next to be held NA March 2003)

election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
RB 27, PRD 11, FARD-ALAFIA 10, PSD 9, MADEP 6, E'toile 4, Alliance
IPD 4, Car-DUNYA 3, MERCI 2, other 7

Judicial branch: Constitutional Court or Cour Constitutionnelle;
Supreme Court or Cour Supreme; High Court of Justice

Political parties and leaders: African Movement for Democracy and
Progress or MADEP [Sefou FAGBOHOUN]; Alliance for Democracy and
Progress or ADP [Sylvain Adekpedjou AKINDES]; Alliance of the Social
Democratic Party or PSD and the National Union for Solidarity and
Progress or UNSP [Bruno AMOUSSOU]; Cameleon Alliance or AC [leader
NA]; Car-DUNYA [Saka SALEY]; Communist Party of Benin or PCB [Pascal
FANTONDJI, first secretary]; Democratic Renewal Party or PRD [Adrien
HOUNGBEDJI]; Front for Renewal and Development or FARD-ALAFIA
[Jerome Sakia KINA]; Impulse for Progress and Democracy or IPD
[Bertin BORNA]; Liberal Democrats' Rally for National
Reconstruction-Vivoten or RDL-Vivoten [Severin ADJOVI]; Movement for
Citizens' Commitment and Awakening or MERCI [Severin ADJOVI]; New
Generation for the Republic or NGR [Paul DOSSOU]; Our Common Cause
or NCC [Francois Odjo TANKPINON]; Party Democratique du Benin or PDB
[Col. Soule DANKORO]; Rally for Democracy and Pan-Africanism or RDP
[Dominique HOYMINOU, Dr. Giles Auguste MINONTIN]; Renaissance Party
du Benin or RB [Nicephore SOGLO]; The Star Alliance (Alliance
E'toile) [Sacca LAFIA]; Union for National Democracy and Solidarity
or UDS [Adamou N'Diaye MAMA]

note:  the Coalition of Democratic Forces is an alliance of parties
and organizations supporting President KEREKOU [Gatien HOUNGBEDJI]

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: ACCT, ACP, AfDB, CCC, ECA,
ECOWAS, Entente, FAO, FZ, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA,
IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM,
ISO (subscriber), ITU, MIPONUH, MONUC, NAM, OAU, OIC, OPCW, UN,
UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNMEE, UNTAET, UPU, WADB, WADB (regional),
WAEMU, WCL, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Lucien Edgar TONOUKOUIN

chancery:  2737 Cathedral Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone:  [1] (202) 232-6656

FAX:  [1] (202) 265-1996

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Pamela E. BRIDGEWATER

embassy:  Rue Caporal Bernard Anani, Cotonou

mailing address:  B. P. 2012, Cotonou

telephone:  [229] 30-06-50, 30-05-13, 30-17-92

FAX:  [229] 30-14-39, 30-19-74

Flag description: two equal horizontal bands of yellow (top) and red
with a vertical green band on the hoist side



Benin    Economy

Economy - overview: The economy of Benin remains underdeveloped and
dependent on subsistence agriculture, cotton production, and
regional trade. Growth in real output averaged a sound 5% in
1996-99, but a rapid population rise offset much of this growth.
Inflation has subsided over the past several years. Commercial and
transport activities, which make up a large part of GDP, are
vulnerable to developments in Nigeria, particularly fuel shortages.
The Paris Club and bilateral creditors have eased the external debt
situation in recent years. While high fuel prices constrained growth
in 2000, increased cotton production - enabled by a major
restructuring program - and an expansion of the Cotonou port, may
lead to increased growth in 2001.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $6.6 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 5% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $1,030 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  37.9%

industry:  13.5%

services:  48.6% (1999)

Population below poverty line: 37.2% (1999 est.)

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 3% (2000 est.)

Labor force: NA

Unemployment rate: NA%

Budget: revenues:  $299 million

expenditures:  $445 million, including capital expenditures of $14
million (1995 est.)

Industries: textiles, cigarettes; beverages, food; construction
materials, petroleum

Industrial production growth rate: 6.9% (2000 est.)

Electricity - production: 226 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  24.78%

hydro:  75.22%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 510.2 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 300 million kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: corn, sorghum, cassava (tapioca), yams,
beans, rice, cotton, palm oil, peanuts; poultry, livestock

Exports: $396 million (f.o.b., 1999)

Exports - commodities: cotton, crude oil, palm products, cocoa

Exports - partners: Brazil 14%, Libya 5%, Indonesia 4%, Italy 4%
(1999)

Imports: $566 million (c.i.f., 1999)

Imports - commodities: foodstuffs, tobacco, petroleum products,
capital goods

Imports - partners: France 38%, China 16%, UK 9%, Cote d'Ivoire 5%
(1999)

Debt - external: $1.6 billion (1998 est.)

Economic aid - recipient: $274.6 million (1997)

Currency: Communaute Financiere Africaine franc (XOF); note -
responsible authority is the Central Bank of the West African States

Currency code: XOF

Exchange rates: Communaute Financiere Africaine francs (XOF) per US
dollar - 699.21 (January 2001), 711.98 (2000), 615.70 (1999), 589.95
(1998), 583.67 (1997), 511.55 (1996); note - from 1 January 1999,
the XOF is pegged to the euro at a rate of 655.957 XOF per euro

Fiscal year: calendar year



Benin    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 36,000 (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 4,295 (1997)

Telephone system: general assessment:  NA

domestic:  fair system of open wire, microwave radio relay, and
cellular connections

international:  satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (Atlantic
Ocean); submarine cable

Radio broadcast stations: AM 2, FM 9, shortwave 4 (1998)

Radios: 620,000 (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 2 (one privately-owned) (1997)

Televisions: 60,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .bj

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 1 (2000)

Internet users: 10,000 (2000)



Benin    Transportation

Railways: total:  578 km (single track)

narrow gauge:  578 km 1.000-m gauge (2000)

Highways: total:  6,787 km

paved:  1,357 km (including 10 km of expressways)

unpaved:  5,430 km (1997 est.)

Waterways: streams navigable along small sections, important only
locally

Ports and harbors: Cotonou, Porto-Novo

Merchant marine: none (2000 est.)

Airports: 5 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  1

1,524 to 2,437 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  4

2,438 to 3,047 m:  1

1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

914 to 1,523 m:  2 (2000 est.)



Benin    Military

Military branches: Armed Forces (includes Army, Navy, Air Force),
National Gendarmerie

Military manpower - military age: 18 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  1,455,433

females age 15-49:  1,489,947

note:  both sexes are liable for military service (2001 est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
743,980

females age 15-49:  755,149 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  70,088

females:  73,618 (2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $27 million (FY96)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 1.2% (FY96)



Benin    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

Illicit drugs: transshipment point for narcotics associated with
Nigerian trafficking organizations and most commonly destined for
Western Europe and the US

======================================================================

@Bermuda





Bermuda    Introduction

Background: Bermuda was first settled in 1609 by shipwrecked English
colonists headed for Virginia. Tourism to the island to escape North
American winters first developed in Victorian times. Bermuda has
developed into a highly successful offshore financial center. A
referendum on independence was soundly defeated in 1995.



Bermuda    Geography

Location: North America, group of islands in the North Atlantic
Ocean, east of North Carolina (US)

Geographic coordinates: 32 20 N, 64 45 W

Map references: North America

Area: total:  58.8 sq km

land:  58.8 sq km

water:  0 sq km

Area - comparative: about 0.3 times the size of Washington, DC

Land boundaries: 0 km

Coastline: 103 km

Maritime claims: exclusive fishing zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: subtropical; mild, humid; gales, strong winds common in
winter

Terrain: low hills separated by fertile depressions

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Atlantic Ocean 0 m

highest point:  Town Hill 76 m

Natural resources: limestone, pleasant climate fostering tourism

Land use: arable land:  6%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  0%

forests and woodland:  0%

other:  94% (55% developed, 39% rural/open space) (1997 est.)

Irrigated land: NA sq km

Natural hazards: hurricanes (June to November)

Environment - current issues: asbestos disposal; water pollution;
preservation of open space

Geography - note: consists of about 360 small coral islands with
ample rainfall, but no rivers or freshwater lakes; some land,
reclaimed and otherwise, was leased by US Government from 1941 to
1995



Bermuda    People

Population: 63,503 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  19.4% (male 6,091; female 6,230)

15-64 years:  69.43% (male 21,783; female 22,309)

65 years and over:  11.17% (male 3,073; female 4,017) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 0.74% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 12.16 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 7.42 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 2.66 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  0.94 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  0.98 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  0.98 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.76 male(s)/female

total population:  0.95 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 9.55 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  77.12 years

male:  75.04 years

female:  79.06 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 1.81 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: NA%

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: NA

HIV/AIDS - deaths: NA

Nationality: noun:  Bermudian(s)

adjective:  Bermudian

Ethnic groups: black 58%, white 36%, other 6%

Religions: non-Anglican Protestant 39%, Anglican 27%, Roman Catholic
15%, other 19%

Languages: English (official), Portuguese

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  98%

male:  98%

female:  99% (1970 est.)



Bermuda    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  none

conventional short form:  Bermuda

former:  Somers Islands

Dependency status: overseas territory of the UK

Government type: parliamentary British overseas territory with
internal self-government

Capital: Hamilton

Administrative divisions: 9 parishes and 2 municipalities*;
Devonshire, Hamilton, Hamilton*, Paget, Pembroke, Saint George*,
Saint Georges, Sandys, Smiths, Southampton, Warwick

Independence: none (overseas territory of the UK)

National holiday: Bermuda Day, 24 May

Constitution: 8 June 1968, amended 1989

Legal system: English law

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6
February 1952), represented by Governor Thorold MASEFIELD (since NA
June 1997)

head of government:  Premier Jennifer SMITH (since 10 November 1998)

cabinet:  Cabinet nominated by the premier, appointed by the governor

elections:  none; the monarch is hereditary; governor appointed by
the monarch; governor invites leader of largest party in Parliament
to form a government as premier

Legislative branch: bicameral Parliament consists of the Senate (an
11-member body appointed by the governor) and the House of Assembly
(40 seats; members are elected by popular vote to serve five-year
terms)

elections:  last held 9 November 1998 (next to be held NA November
2003)

election results:  percent of vote by party - PLP 54%, UBP 44%, NLP
1%, independents 1%; seats by party - PLP 26, UBP 14

Judicial branch: Supreme Court; Court of Appeal; Magistrate Courts

Political parties and leaders: National Liberal Party or NLP
[Dessaline WALDRON]; Progressive Labor Party or PLP [Jennifer
SMITH]; United Bermuda Party or UBP [Pamela GORDON]

Political pressure groups and leaders: Bermuda Industrial Union or
BIU [Derrick BURGESS]; Bermuda Public Services Association or BPSA
[Betty CHRISTOPHER]

International organization participation: Caricom (observer), CCC,
ICFTU, Interpol (subbureau), IOC

Diplomatic representation in the US: none (overseas territory of the
UK)

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Consul
General Lawrence D. OWEN

consulate(s) general:  Crown Hill, 16 Middle Road, Devonshire,
Hamilton

mailing address:  P. O. Box HM325, Hamilton HMBX; American Consulate
General Hamilton, Department of State, Washington, DC 20520-5300

telephone:  [1] (441) 295-1342

FAX:  [1] (441) 295-1592

Flag description: red, with the flag of the UK in the upper
hoist-side quadrant and the Bermudian coat of arms (white and green
shield with a red lion holding a scrolled shield showing the sinking
of the ship Sea Venture off Bermuda in 1609) centered on the outer
half of the flag



Bermuda    Economy

Economy - overview: Bermuda enjoys one of the highest per capita
incomes in the world, having successfully exploited its location by
providing financial services for international firms and luxury
tourist facilities for 360,000 visitors annually. The tourist
industry, which accounts for an estimated 28% of GDP, attracts 84%
of its business from North America. The industrial sector is small,
and agriculture is severely limited by a lack of suitable land.
About 80% of food needs are imported. International business
contributes over 60% of Bermuda's economic output; a failed
independence vote in late 1995 can be partially attributed to
Bermudian fears of scaring away foreign firms. Government economic
priorities are the further strengthening of the tourist and
international financial sectors.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $2.1 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 1.5% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $33,000 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  1%

industry:  10%

services:  89% (1995 est.)

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 2.7% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 35,296 (1997)

Labor force - by occupation: clerical 23%, services 22%, laborers
17%, professional and technical 17%, administrative and managerial
12%, sales 7%, agriculture and fishing 2% (1996)

Unemployment rate: NEGL% (1995)

Budget: revenues:  $504.6 million

expenditures:  $537 million, including capital expenditures of $75
million (FY97/98)

Industries: tourism, finance, insurance, structural concrete
products, paints, perfumes, pharmaceuticals, ship repairing

Industrial production growth rate: NA%

Electricity - production: 550 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  100%

hydro:  0%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 511.5 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: bananas, vegetables, citrus, flowers; dairy
products

Exports: $56 million (2000 est.)

Exports - commodities: reexports of pharmaceuticals

Exports - partners: UK 29.5%, US 9.8% (1997)

Imports: $739 million (2000 est.)

Imports - commodities: machinery and transport equipment,
construction materials, chemicals, food and live animals

Imports - partners: US 34%, UK 9%, Mexico 8% (1997)

Debt - external: $NA

Economic aid - recipient: $27.9 million (1995)

Currency: Bermudian dollar (BMD)

Currency code: BMD

Exchange rates: Bermudian dollar per US dollar - 1.0000 (fixed rate
pegged to the US dollar)

Fiscal year: 1 April - 31 March



Bermuda    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 52,000 (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 7,980 (1996)

Telephone system: general assessment:  NA

domestic:  modern, fully automatic telephone system

international:  3 submarine cables; satellite earth stations - 3
Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 5, FM 3, shortwave 0 (1998)

Radios: 82,000 (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 3 (1997)

Televisions: 66,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .bm

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 20 (2000)

Internet users: 25,000 (2000)



Bermuda    Transportation

Railways: 0 km

Highways: total:  225 km

paved:  225 km

unpaved:  0 km

note:  in addition, there are 232 km of paved and unpaved roads that
are privately owned (1997)

Waterways: none

Ports and harbors: Hamilton, Saint George

Merchant marine: total:  105 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
5,836,538 GRT/9,728,045 DWT

ships by type:  bulk 27, cargo 4, container 15, liquefied gas 7,
passenger 2, petroleum tanker 23, refrigerated cargo 16, roll
on/roll off 8, short-sea passenger 3

note:  includes some foreign-owned ships registered here as a flag
of convenience: Canada 10, Hong Kong 10, Japan 1, Nigeria 4, Saudi
Arabia 1, Sweden 3, Switzerland 2, UK 10, US 7 (2000 est.)

Airports: 1 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  1

2,438 to 3,047 m:  1 (2000 est.)



Bermuda    Military

Military branches: Bermuda Regiment, Bermuda Police Force, Bermuda
Reserve Constabulary

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $NA

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: NA%

Military - note: defense is the responsibility of the UK



Bermuda    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

======================================================================

@Bhutan




Bhutan    Introduction

Background: Under British influence a monarchy was set up in 1907;
three years later a treaty was signed whereby the country became a
British protectorate. Independence was attained in 1949, with India
subsequently guiding foreign relations and supplying aid. A refugee
issue of some 100,000 Bhutanese in Nepal remains unresolved; 90% of
these displaced persons are housed in seven United Nations Office of
the High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) camps. Maoist Assamese
separatists from India, who have established themselves in the
southeast portion of Bhutan, have drawn Indian cross-border
incursions.



Bhutan    Geography

Location: Southern Asia, between China and India

Geographic coordinates: 27 30 N, 90 30 E

Map references: Asia

Area: total:  47,000 sq km

land:  47,000 sq km

water:  0 sq km

Area - comparative: about half the size of Indiana

Land boundaries: total:  1,075 km

border countries:  China 470 km, India 605 km

Coastline: 0 km (landlocked)

Maritime claims: none (landlocked)

Climate: varies; tropical in southern plains; cool winters and hot
summers in central valleys; severe winters and cool summers in
Himalayas

Terrain: mostly mountainous with some fertile valleys and savanna

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Drangme Chhu 97 m

highest point:  Kula Kangri 7,553 m

Natural resources: timber, hydropower, gypsum, calcium carbide

Land use: arable land:  2%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  6%

forests and woodland:  66%

other:  26% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 340 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: violent storms coming down from the Himalayas are
the source of the country's name which translates as Land of the
Thunder Dragon; frequent landslides during the rainy season

Environment - current issues: soil erosion; limited access to
potable water

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Nuclear Test Ban

signed, but not ratified:  Law of the Sea

Geography - note: landlocked; strategic location between China and
India; controls several key Himalayan mountain passes



Bhutan    People

Population: 2,049,412 (July 2001 est.)

note:  other estimates range as low as 800,000

Age structure: 0-14 years:  39.99% (male 424,832; female 394,725)

15-64 years:  56.05% (male 591,152; female 557,498)

65 years and over:  3.96% (male 41,125; female 40,080) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 2.17% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 35.73 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 14.03 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.08 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1.06 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  1.03 male(s)/female

total population:  1.07 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 108.89 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  52.79 years

male:  53.16 years

female:  52.41 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 5.07 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: less than 0.01% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: less than 100 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: NA

Nationality: noun:  Bhutanese (singular and plural)

adjective:  Bhutanese

Ethnic groups: Bhote 50%, ethnic Nepalese 35%, indigenous or migrant
tribes 15%

Religions: Lamaistic Buddhist 75%, Indian- and Nepalese-influenced
Hinduism 25%

Languages: Dzongkha (official), Bhotes speak various Tibetan
dialects, Nepalese speak various Nepalese dialects

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  42.2%

male:  56.2%

female:  28.1% (1995 est.)



Bhutan    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Kingdom of Bhutan

conventional short form:  Bhutan

Government type: monarchy; special treaty relationship with India

Capital: Thimphu

Administrative divisions: 18 districts (dzongkhag, singular and
plural); Bumthang, Chhukha, Chirang, Daga, Geylegphug, Ha, Lhuntshi,
Mongar, Paro, Pemagatsel, Punakha, Samchi, Samdrup Jongkhar,
Shemgang, Tashigang, Thimphu, Tongsa, Wangdi Phodrang

note:  there may be two new districts named Gasa and Yangtse

Independence: 8 August 1949 (from India)

National holiday: National Day (Ugyen WANGCHUCK became first
hereditary king), 17 December (1907)

Constitution: no written constitution or bill of rights; note -
Bhutan uses 1953 Royal decree for the Constitution of the National
Assembly; on 7 July 1998, a Royal edict was ratified giving the
National Assembly additional powers

Legal system: based on Indian law and English common law; has not
accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Suffrage: each family has one vote in village-level elections

Executive branch: chief of state:  King Jigme Singye WANGCHUCK
(since 24 July 1972)

head of government:  Chairman of the Council of Ministers Sangay
NGEDUP (since NA 1999)

cabinet:  Council of Ministers (Lhengye Shungtsog) nominated by the
monarch, approved by the National Assembly; members serve fixed,
five-year terms; note - there is also a Royal Advisory Council
(Lodoi Tsokde), members nominated by the monarch

elections:  none; the monarch is hereditary, but democratic reforms
in July 1998 give the National Assembly authority to remove the
monarch with two-thirds vote

Legislative branch: unicameral National Assembly or Tshogdu (150
seats; 105 elected from village constituencies, 10 represent
religious bodies, and 35 are designated by the monarch to represent
government and other secular interests; members serve three-year
terms)

elections:  last held NA (next to be held NA)

election results:  NA

Judicial branch: Supreme Court of Appeal (the monarch); High Court
(judges appointed by the monarch)

Political parties and leaders: no legal parties

Political pressure groups and leaders: Buddhist clergy; ethnic
Nepalese organizations leading militant antigovernment campaign;
Indian merchant community; United Front for Democracy (exiled)

International organization participation: AsDB, CP, ESCAP, FAO,
G-77, IBRD, ICAO, IDA, IFAD, IMF, Intelsat, IOC, IOM (observer),
ITU, NAM, OPCW, SAARC, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WHO, WIPO,
WTrO (observer)

Diplomatic representation in the US: none; note - Bhutan has a
Permanent Mission to the UN; address: 2 United Nations Plaza, 27th
Floor, New York, NY 10017; telephone [1] (212) 826-1919; the
Bhutanese mission to the UN has consular jurisdiction in the US

consulate(s) general:  New York

Diplomatic representation from the US: the US and Bhutan have no
formal diplomatic relations, although informal contact is maintained
between the Bhutanese and US Embassy in New Delhi (India)

Flag description: divided diagonally from the lower hoist side
corner; the upper triangle is yellow and the lower triangle is
orange; centered along the dividing line is a large black and white
dragon facing away from the hoist side



Bhutan    Economy

Economy - overview: The economy, one of the world's smallest and
least developed, is based on agriculture and forestry, which provide
the main livelihood for more than 90% of the population. Agriculture
consists largely of subsistence farming and animal husbandry. Rugged
mountains dominate the terrain and make the building of roads and
other infrastructure difficult and expensive. The economy is closely
aligned with India's through strong trade and monetary links. The
industrial sector is technologically backward, with most production
of the cottage industry type. Most development projects, such as
road construction, rely on Indian migrant labor. Bhutan's hydropower
potential and its attraction for tourists are key resources. The
Bhutanese Government has made some progress in expanding the
nation's productive base and improving social welfare. Model
education, social, and environment programs in Bhutan are underway
with support from multilateral development organizations. Each
economic program takes into account the government's desire to
protect the country's environment and cultural traditions. Detailed
controls and uncertain policies in areas like industrial licensing,
trade, labor, and finance continue to hamper foreign investment.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $2.3 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 6% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $1,100 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  38%

industry:  37%

services:  25% (2000 est.)

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 7% (2000 est.)

Labor force: NA

note:  massive lack of skilled labor

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture 93%, services 5%, industry
and commerce 2%

Unemployment rate: NA%

Budget: revenues:  $146 million

expenditures:  $152 million, including capital expenditures of $NA
(FY95/96 est.)

note:  the government of India finances nearly three-fifths of
Bhutan's budget expenditures

Industries: cement, wood products, processed fruits, alcoholic
beverages, calcium carbide

Industrial production growth rate: 9.3% (1996 est.)

Electricity - production: 1.856 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  0.05%

hydro:  99.95%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 191.1 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 1.55 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 15 million kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: rice, corn, root crops, citrus, foodgrains;
dairy products, eggs

Exports: $154 million (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Exports - commodities: cardamom, gypsum, timber, handicrafts,
cement, fruit, electricity (to India), precious stones, spices

Exports - partners: India 94%, Bangladesh

Imports: $269 million (c.i.f., 2000 est.)

Imports - commodities: fuel and lubricants, grain, machinery and
parts, vehicles, fabrics, rice

Imports - partners: India 77%, Japan, UK, Germany, US

Debt - external: $120 million (1998)

Economic aid - recipient: $73.8 million (1995)

Currency: ngultrum (BTN); Indian rupee (INR)

Currency code: BTN; INR

Exchange rates: ngultrum per US dollar - 46.540 (January 2001),
44.942 (2000), 43.055 (1999), 41.259 (1998), 36.313 (1997), 35.433
(1996); note - the Bhutanese ngultrum is at par with the Indian
rupee which is also legal tender

Fiscal year: 1 July - 30 June



Bhutan    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 6,000 (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: NA

Telephone system: general assessment:  NA

domestic:  domestic telephone service is very poor with few
telephones in use

international:  international telephone and telegraph service is by
landline through India; a satellite earth station was planned (1990)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 0, FM 1, shortwave 1 (1998)

Radios: 37,000 (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 0 (1997)

Televisions: 11,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .bt

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): NA

Internet users: 500 (2000)



Bhutan    Transportation

Railways: 0 km

Highways: total:  3,285 km

paved:  1,994 km

unpaved:  1,291 km (1996)

Waterways: none

Ports and harbors: none

Airports: 2 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  1

1,524 to 2,437 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  1

914 to 1,523 m:  1 (2000 est.)



Bhutan    Military

Military branches: Royal Bhutan Army, National Militia, Royal Bhutan
Police, Royal Body Guards, Forest Guards (paramilitary)

Military manpower - military age: 18 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  504,342 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
269,251 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  21,167
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $NA

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: NA%



Bhutan    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: refugee issue over the presence in Nepal
of approximately 98,700 Bhutanese refugees, 90% of whom are in seven
United Nations Office of the High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR)
camps

======================================================================

@Bolivia




Bolivia    Introduction

Background: Bolivia, named after independence fighter Simon BOLIVAR,
broke away from Spanish rule in 1825; much of its subsequent history
has consisted of a series of nearly 200 coups and counter-coups.
Comparatively democratic civilian rule was established in the 1980s,
but leaders have faced difficult problems of deep-seated poverty,
social unrest, and drug production. Current goals include attracting
foreign investment, strengthening the educational system, continuing
the privatization program, and waging an anti-corruption campaign.



Bolivia    Geography

Location: Central South America, southwest of Brazil

Geographic coordinates: 17 00 S, 65 00 W

Map references: South America

Area: total:  1,098,580 sq km

land:  1,084,390 sq km

water:  14,190 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly less than three times the size of
Montana

Land boundaries: total:  6,743 km

border countries:  Argentina 832 km, Brazil 3,400 km, Chile 861 km,
Paraguay 750 km, Peru 900 km

Coastline: 0 km (landlocked)

Maritime claims: none (landlocked)

Climate: varies with altitude; humid and tropical to cold and
semiarid

Terrain: rugged Andes Mountains with a highland plateau (Altiplano),
hills, lowland plains of the Amazon Basin

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Rio Paraguay 90 m

highest point:  Nevado Sajama 6,542 m

Natural resources: tin, natural gas, petroleum, zinc, tungsten,
antimony, silver, iron, lead, gold, timber, hydropower

Land use: arable land:  2%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  24%

forests and woodland:  53%

other:  21% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 1,750 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: flooding in the northeast (March-April)

Environment - current issues: the clearing of land for agricultural
purposes and the international demand for tropical timber are
contributing to deforestation; soil erosion from overgrazing and
poor cultivation methods (including slash-and-burn agriculture);
desertification; loss of biodiversity; industrial pollution of water
supplies used for drinking and irrigation

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification,
Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Nuclear Test
Ban, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands

signed, but not ratified:  Environmental Modification, Marine
Dumping, Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer Protection

Geography - note: landlocked; shares control of Lago Titicaca,
world's highest navigable lake (elevation 3,805 m), with Peru



Bolivia    People

Population: 8,300,463 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  38.46% (male 1,626,698; female 1,565,748)

15-64 years:  57.07% (male 2,315,098; female 2,421,987)

65 years and over:  4.47% (male 166,986; female 203,946) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 1.76% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 27.27 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 8.2 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: -1.45 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  0.96 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.82 male(s)/female

total population:  0.98 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 58.98 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  64.06 years

male:  61.53 years

female:  66.72 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 3.51 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 0.1% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 4,200 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: 380 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Bolivian(s)

adjective:  Bolivian

Ethnic groups: Quechua 30%, Aymara 25%, mestizo (mixed white and
Amerindian ancestry) 30%, white 15%

Religions: Roman Catholic 95%, Protestant (Evangelical Methodist)

Languages: Spanish (official), Quechua (official), Aymara (official)

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  83.1%

male:  90.5%

female:  76% (1995 est.)



Bolivia    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Republic of Bolivia

conventional short form:  Bolivia

local long form:  Republica de Bolivia

local short form:  Bolivia

Government type: republic

Capital: La Paz (seat of government); Sucre (legal capital and seat
of judiciary)

Administrative divisions: 9 departments (departamentos, singular -
departamento); Chuquisaca, Cochabamba, Beni, La Paz, Oruro, Pando,
Potosi, Santa Cruz, Tarija

Independence: 6 August 1825 (from Spain)

National holiday: Independence Day, 6 August (1825)

Constitution: 2 February 1967; revised in August 1994

Legal system: based on Spanish law and Napoleonic Code; has not
accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Suffrage: 18 years of age, universal and compulsory (married); 21
years of age, universal and compulsory (single)

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Hugo BANZER Suarez
(since 6 August 1997); Vice President Jorge Fernando QUIROGA Ramirez
(since 6 August 1997); note - the president is both the chief of
state and head of government

head of government:  President Hugo BANZER Suarez (since 6 August
1997); Vice President Jorge Fernando QUIROGA Ramirez (since 6 August
1997); note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
government

cabinet:  Cabinet appointed by the president

elections:  president and vice president elected on the same ticket
by popular vote for five-year terms; election last held 1 June 1997
(next to be held May or June 2002)

election results:  Hugo BANZER Suarez elected president; percent of
vote - Hugo BANZER Suarez (ADN) 22%; Jaime PAZ Zamora (MIR) 17%,
Juan Carlos DURAN (MNR) 18%, Ivo KULJIS (UCS) 16%, Remedios LOZA
(CONDEPA) 17%; no candidate received a majority of the popular vote;
Hugo BANZER Suarez won a congressional runoff election on 5 August
1997 after forming a "megacoalition" with MIR, UCS, CONDEPA, NFR,
and PDC

Legislative branch: bicameral National Congress or Congreso Nacional
consists of Chamber of Senators or Camara de Senadores (27 seats;
members are directly elected by popular vote to serve five-year
terms) and Chamber of Deputies or Camara de Diputados (130 seats;
members are directly elected by popular vote to serve five-year
terms; note - some members are drawn from party lists, thus not
directly elected)

elections:  Chamber of Senators and Chamber of Deputies - last held
1 June 1997 (next to be held NA June 2002)

election results:  Chamber of Senators - percent of vote by party -
NA%; seats by party - ADN 11, MIR 7, MNR 4, CONDEPA 3, UCS 2;
Chamber of Deputies - percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party
- ADN 32, MNR 26, MIR 23, UCS 21, CONDEPA 19, MBL 5, IU 4

Judicial branch: Supreme Court or Corte Suprema (judges appointed
for 10-year terms by National Congress); District Courts (one in
each department); provincial and local courts (to try minor cases)

Political parties and leaders: Christian Democratic Party or PDC
[leader NA]; Civic Solidarity Union or UCS [Johnny FERNANDEZ];
Conscience of the Fatherland or CONDEPA [Remedios LOZA Alvarado];
Free Bolivia Movement or MBL [Antonio ARANIBAR]; Movement of the
Revolutionary Left or MIR [Jaime PAZ Zamora]; Nationalist Democratic
Action or ADN [Hugo BANZER Suarez]; Nationalist Revolutionary
Movement or MNR [Gonzalo SANCHEZ DE LOZADA]; New Republican Force or
NFR [leader NA]; Pachacuti Indigenous Movement [Filipe QUISPE];
United Left or IU [Marcos DOMIC]

note:  the ADN, MIR, and UCS comprise the ruling coalition

Political pressure groups and leaders: Cocalero Groups; indigenous
organizations; labor unions

International organization participation: CAN, CCC, ECLAC, FAO,
G-11, G-77, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS,
ILO, IMF, IMO, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM, ITU, LAES, LAIA,
Mercosur (associate), MONUC, NAM, OAS, OPANAL, OPCW, PCA, RG, UN,
UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNMIK, UNTAET, UPU, WCL, WFTU, WHO, WIPO,
WMO, WToO, WTrO

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Marlene FERNANDEZ del Granado

chancery:  3014 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone:  [1] (202) 483-4410

FAX:  [1] (202) 328-3712

consulate(s) general:  Los Angeles, Miami, New York, and San
Francisco

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
V. Manuel ROCHA

embassy:  Avenida Arce 2780, San Jorge, La Paz

mailing address:  P. O. Box 425, La Paz; APO AA 34032

telephone:  [591] (2) 432254

FAX:  [591] (2) 433854

Flag description: three equal horizontal bands of red (top), yellow,
and green with the coat of arms centered on the yellow band; similar
to the flag of Ghana, which has a large black five-pointed star
centered in the yellow band



Bolivia    Economy

Economy - overview: Bolivia, long one of the poorest and least
developed Latin American countries, has made considerable progress
toward the development of a market-oriented economy. Successes under
President SANCHEZ DE LOZADA (1993-97) included the signing of a free
trade agreement with Mexico and joining the Southern Cone Common
Market (Mercosur), as well as the privatization of the state
airline, telephone company, railroad, electric power company, and
oil company. His successor, Hugo BANZER Suarez has tried to further
improve the country's investment climate with an anticorruption
campaign. Growth slowed in 1999, in part due to tight government
budget policies, which limited needed appropriations for
anti-poverty programs, and the fallout from the Asian financial
crisis. In 2000, major civil disturbances in April, and again in
September and October, held down overall growth to 2.5%.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $20.9 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 2.5% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $2,600 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  16%

industry:  31%

services:  53% (1999 est.)

Population below poverty line: 70% (1999 est.)

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:
2.3%

highest 10%:  31.7% (1990)

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 4.4% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 2.5 million

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture NA%, industry NA%, services
NA%

Unemployment rate: 11.4% (1997)

note:  widespread underemployment

Budget: revenues:  $2.7 billion

expenditures:  $2.7 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
(1998)

Industries: mining, smelting, petroleum, food and beverages,
tobacco, handicrafts, clothing

Industrial production growth rate: 4% (1995 est.)

Electricity - production: 3.625 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  56.61%

hydro:  41.6%

nuclear:  0%

other:  1.79% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 3.377 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 4 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 10 million kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: soybeans, coffee, coca, cotton, corn,
sugarcane, rice, potatoes; timber

Exports: $1.26 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Exports - commodities: soybeans, natural gas, zinc, gold, wood

Exports - partners: UK 16%, US 12%, Peru 11%, Argentina 10%,
Colombia 7% (1998)

Imports: $1.86 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Imports - commodities: capital goods, raw materials and
semi-manufactures, chemicals, petroleum, food

Imports - partners: US 32%, Japan 24%, Brazil 12%, Argentina 12%,
Chile 7%, Peru 4%, Germany 3%, other 6% (1998)

Debt - external: $6.6 billion (2000)

Economic aid - recipient: $588 million (1997)

Currency: boliviano (BOB)

Currency code: BOB

Exchange rates: bolivianos per US dollar - 6.4071 (January 2001),
6.1835 (2000), 5.8124 (1999), 5.5101 (1998), 5.2543 (1997), 5.0746
(1996)

Fiscal year: calendar year



Bolivia    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 327,600 (1996)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 116,000 (1997)

Telephone system: general assessment:  new subscribers face
bureaucratic difficulties; most telephones are concentrated in La
Paz and other cities; mobile cellular telephone use expanding rapidly

domestic:  primary trunk system, which is being expanded, employs
digital microwave radio relay; some areas are served by fiber-optic
cable; mobile cellular systems are being expanded

international:  satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 171, FM 73, shortwave 77 (1999)

Radios: 5.25 million (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 48 (1997)

Televisions: 900,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .bo

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 9 (2000)

Internet users: 35,000 (2000)



Bolivia    Transportation

Railways: total:  3,691 km (single track)

narrow gauge:  3,652 km 1.000-m gauge; 39 km 0.760-m gauge (13 km
electrified) (1995)

Highways: total:  49,400 km

paved:  2,500 km (including 30 km of expressways)

unpaved:  46,900 km (1996)

Waterways: 10,000 km (commercially navigable)

Pipelines: crude oil 1,800 km; petroleum products 580 km; natural
gas 1,495 km

Ports and harbors: none; however, Bolivia has free port privileges
in maritime ports in Argentina, Brazil, Chile, and Paraguay

Merchant marine: total:  42 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
141,017 GRT/211,058 DWT

ships by type:  bulk 5, cargo 20, chemical tanker 3, container 1,
petroleum tanker 10, roll on/roll off 3 (2000 est.)

Airports: 1,093 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  13

over 3,047 m:  4

2,438 to 3,047 m:  3

1,524 to 2,437 m:  4

914 to 1,523 m:  2 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  1,080

2,438 to 3,047 m:  3

1,524 to 2,437 m:  65

914 to 1,523 m:  212

under 914 m:  800 (2000 est.)



Bolivia    Military

Military branches: Army (Ejercito Boliviano), Navy (Fuerza Naval
Boliviana, includes Marines), Air Force (Fuerza Aerea Boliviana),
National Police Force (Policia Nacional de Bolivia)

Military manpower - military age: 19 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  2,005,660 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
1,306,452 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  90,120
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $147 million (FY99)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 1.8% (FY99)



Bolivia    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: has wanted a sovereign corridor to the
South Pacific Ocean since the Atacama area was lost to Chile in
1884; dispute with Chile over Rio Lauca water rights

Illicit drugs: world's third-largest cultivator of coca (after
Colombia and Peru, a distant second) with an estimated 14,600
hectares under cultivation in 2000, a 33% decrease in overall
cultivation of coca from 1999 levels; intermediate coca products and
cocaine exported to or through Colombia, Brazil, Argentina, and
Chile to the US and other international drug markets; eradication
and alternative crop programs have slashed illicit coca cultivation
during the BANZER administration beginning in 1997

======================================================================

@Bosnia and Herzegovina




Bosnia and Herzegovina    Introduction

Background: Bosnia and Herzegovina's declaration of sovereignty in
October 1991, was followed by a referendum for independence from the
former Yugoslavia in February 1992. The Bosnian Serbs - supported by
neighboring Serbia - responded with armed resistance aimed at
partitioning the republic along ethnic lines and joining Serb-held
areas to form a "greater Serbia." In March 1994, Bosniaks and Croats
reduced the number of warring factions from three to two by signing
an agreement creating a joint Bosniak/Croat Federation of Bosnia and
Herzegovina. On 21 November 1995, in Dayton, Ohio, the warring
parties signed a peace agreement that brought to a halt the three
years of interethnic civil strife (the final agreement was signed in
Paris on 14 December 1995). The Dayton Agreement retained Bosnia and
Herzegovina's international boundaries and created a joint
multi-ethnic and democratic government. This national government is
charged with conducting foreign, economic, and fiscal policy. Also
recognized was a second tier of government comprised of two entities
roughly equal in size: the Bosniak/Croat Federation of Bosnia and
Herzegovina and the Bosnian Serb-led Republika Srpska (RS). The
Federation and RS governments are charged with overseeing internal
functions. In 1995-96, a NATO-led international peacekeeping force
(IFOR) of 60,000 troops served in Bosnia to implement and monitor
the military aspects of the agreement. IFOR was succeeded by a
smaller, NATO-led Stabilization Force (SFOR) whose mission is to
deter renewed hostilities. SFOR remains in place at a level of
approximately 21,000 troops.



Bosnia and Herzegovina    Geography

Location: Southeastern Europe, bordering the Adriatic Sea and Croatia

Geographic coordinates: 44 00 N, 18 00 E

Map references: Bosnia and Herzegovina, Europe

Area: total:  51,129 sq km

land:  51,129 sq km

water:  0 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly smaller than West Virginia

Land boundaries: total:  1,459 km

border countries:  Croatia 932 km, Yugoslavia 527 km

Coastline: 20 km

Maritime claims: NA

Climate: hot summers and cold winters; areas of high elevation have
short, cool summers and long, severe winters; mild, rainy winters
along coast

Terrain: mountains and valleys

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Adriatic Sea 0 m

highest point:  Maglic 2,386 m

Natural resources: coal, iron, bauxite, manganese, forests, copper,
chromium, lead, zinc, hydropower

Land use: arable land:  14%

permanent crops:  5%

permanent pastures:  20%

forests and woodland:  39%

other:  22% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 20 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: destructive earthquakes

Environment - current issues: air pollution from metallurgical
plants; sites for disposing of urban waste are limited; water
shortages and destruction of infrastructure because of the 1992-95
civil strife

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Air Pollution,
Climate Change, Law of the Sea, Marine Life Conservation, Nuclear
Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection

signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Geography - note: within Bosnia and Herzegovina's recognized
borders, the country is divided into a joint Bosniak/Croat
Federation (about 51% of the territory) and the Bosnian Serb-led
Republika Srpska or RS (about 49% of the territory); the region
called Herzegovina is contiguous to Croatia and traditionally has
been settled by an ethnic Croat majority



Bosnia and Herzegovina    People

Population: 3,922,205

note:  all data dealing with population are subject to considerable
error because of the dislocations caused by military action and
ethnic cleansing (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  20.13% (male 405,713; female 383,850)

15-64 years:  70.78% (male 1,422,796; female 1,353,410)

65 years and over:  9.09% (male 150,802; female 205,634) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 1.38% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 12.86 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 7.99 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 8.91 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.07 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.06 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.73 male(s)/female

total population:  1.02 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 24.35 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  71.75 years

male:  69.04 years

female:  74.65 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 1.71 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 0.04% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: NA

HIV/AIDS - deaths: less than 100 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Bosnian(s), Herzegovinian(s)

adjective:  Bosnian, Herzegovinian

Ethnic groups: Serb 31%, Bosniak 44%, Croat 17%, Yugoslav 5.5%,
other 2.5% (1991)

note:  Bosniak has replaced muslim as an ethnic term in part to
avoid confusion with the religious term Muslim - an adherent of Islam

Religions: Muslim 40%, Orthodox 31%, Roman Catholic 15%, Protestant
4%, other 10%

Languages: Croatian, Serbian, Bosnian

Literacy: definition:  NA

total population:  NA%

male:  NA%

female:  NA%



Bosnia and Herzegovina    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  none

conventional short form:  Bosnia and Herzegovina

local long form:  none

local short form:  Bosna i Hercegovina

Government type: emerging democracy

Capital: Sarajevo

Administrative divisions: there are two first-order administrative
divisions - the Bosniak/Croat Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina
(Federacija Bosna i Hercegovina) and the Bosnian Serb-led Republika
Srpska; note - Brcko in northeastern Bosnia is a self-governing
administrative unit under the sovereignty of Bosnia and Herzegovina;
it is not part of either the Federation or Republika Srpska

Independence: 1 March 1992 (from Yugoslavia)

National holiday: National Day, 25 November (1943)

Constitution: the Dayton Agreement, signed 14 December 1995,
included a new constitution now in force

Legal system: based on civil law system

Suffrage: 16 years of age, if employed; 18 years of age, universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  Chairman of the Presidency Jozo
KRIZANOVI (chairman since 14 June 2001, presidency member since NA
March 2001 - Croat); other members of the three-member rotating
(every 8 months) presidency: Zivko RADISIC (since 13 October 1998 -
Serb) and Beriz BELKIC (since NA March 2001 - Bosniak); note - Ante
JELAVIC was dismissed from his post by the UN High Representative in
March 2001

head of government:  Chairman of the Council of Ministers Zlatko
LAGUMDZIJA (since 18 July 2001)

cabinet:  Council of Ministers nominated by the council chairman;
approved by the National House of Representatives

elections:  the three members of the presidency (one Bosniak, one
Croat, one Serb) are elected by popular vote for a four-year term;
the member with the most votes becomes the chairman unless he or she
was the incumbent chairman at the time of the election; election
last held 12-13 September 1998 (next to be held NA September 2002);
the chairman of the Council of Ministers is appointed by the
presidency and confirmed by the National House of Representatives

election results:  percent of vote - Zivko RADISIC with 52% of the
Serb vote was elected chairman of the collective presidency for the
first 8 months; Ante JELAVIC with 52% of the Croat vote followed
RADISIC in the rotation; Alija IZETBEGOVIC with 87% of the Bosniak
vote won the highest number of votes in the election but was
ineligible to serve a second term until RADISIC and JELAVIC had each
served a first term as Chairman of the Presidency; IZETBEGOVIC
retired from the presidency 14 October 2000 and was temporarily
replaced by Halid GENJAC; Ante JELAVIC was replaced by Jozo
KRIZANOVIC in March 2001

note:  President of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina: Karlo
FILIPOVIC (since 27 February 2001); Vice President Safet HALILOVIC
(since 27 February 2001); note - president and vice president rotate
every year; President of the Republika Srpska: Mirko SAROVIC (since
11 November 2000)

Legislative branch: bicameral Parliamentary Assembly or Skupstina
consists of the National House of Representatives or Predstavnicki
Dom (42 seats - 14 Serb, 14 Croat, and 14 Bosniak; members elected
by popular vote to serve two-year terms) and the House of Peoples or
Dom Naroda (15 seats - 5 Bosniak, 5 Croat, 5 Serb; members elected
by the Bosniak/Croat Federation's House of Representatives and the
Republika Srpska's National Assembly to serve two-year terms); note
- as of 1 January 2001, Bosnia and Herzegovina does not have a
permanent election law; a draft law specifies four-year terms for
the state and first-order administrative division entity
legislatures; officials elected in 2000 were elected to two-year
terms on the presumption that a permanent law would be in place
before 2002

elections:  National House of Representatives - elections last held
11 November 2000 (next to be held in the fall of 2002); House of
Peoples - last constituted after the 11 November 2000 elections
(next to be constituted in the fall of 2002)

election results:  National House of Representatives - percent of
vote by party/coalition - NA%; seats by party/coalition - SDP 9, SDA
8, SDS 6, HDZ-BiH 5, SBH 5, PDP 2, NHI 1, BPS 1, DPS 1, SNS 1,
SNSD-DSP 1, DNZ 1, SPRS 1; House of Peoples - percent of vote by
party/coalition - NA%; seats by party/coalition - NA

note:  the Bosniak/Croat Federation has a bicameral legislature that
consists of a House of Representatives (140 seats; members elected
by popular vote to serve four-year terms); elections last held 11
November 2000 (next to be held NA 2002); percent of vote by party -
NA%; seats by party/coalition - SDA 38, SDP 37, HDZ-BiH 25, SBH 21,
DNZ 3, NHI 2, BPS 2, DPS 2, BOSS 2, GDS 1, RP 1, HSS 1, LDS 1,
Pensioners' Party of FBiH 1, SNSD-DSP 1, HKDU 1, HSP 1; and a House
of Peoples (74 seats - 30 Bosniak, 30 Croat, and 14 others); last
constituted November 2000; the Republika Srpska has a National
Assembly (83 seats; members elected by popular vote to serve
four-year terms); elections last held 11 November 2000 (next to be
held NA 2002); percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by
party/coalition - SDS 31, PDP 11, SNSD 11, SDA 6, DSP 4, SDP 4, SPRS
4, SBH 4, DNS 3, SNS 2, NHI 1, DSRS 1, Pensioners' Party 1; as of 1
January 2001, Bosnia and Herzegovina does not have a permanent
election law; a draft law specifies four-year terms for the state
and first-order administrative division entity legislatures;
officials elected in 2000 were elected to two-year terms on the
presumption that a permanent law would be in place before 2002

Judicial branch: BiH Constitutional Court (consists of nine members:
four members are selected by the Bosniak/Croat Federation's House of
Representatives, two members by the Republika Srpska's National
Assembly, and three non-Bosnian members by the president of the
European Court of Human Rights)

note:  a new state court, established in November 1999, has
jurisdiction over cases related to state-level law and appellate
jurisdiction over cases initiated in the entities; the entities each
have a Supreme Court; each entity also has a number of lower courts;
there are ten cantonal courts in the Federation, plus a number of
municipal courts; the Republika Srpska has five municipal courts

Political parties and leaders: Bosnian Party or BOSS [Mirnes
AJANOVIC]; Bosnian Patriotic Party or BPS [Sefer HALILOVIC]; Civic
Democratic Party of BiH or GDS [Ibrahim SPAHIC]; Croat Christian
Democratic Union or HKDU BiH [Ante PASALIC]; Croatian Democratic
Union of BiH or HDZ-BiH [leader vacant]; Croatian Party of Rights or
HSP [Zdravko HRSTIC]; Croatian Peasants Party of BiH or HSS-BiH
[Ilija SIMIC]; Democratic Action Party or SDA [Alija IZETBEGOVIC];
Democratic National Alliance or DNS [Dragan KOSTIC]; Democratic
Party of Pensioners or DPS [Alojz KNEZOVIC]; Democratic Party of RS
or DSRS [Dragomir DUMIC]; Democratic Peoples Union or DNZ [Fikret
ABDIC]; Democratic Socialist Party or DSP [Nebojsa RADMANOVIC];
Liberal Democratic Party or LDS [Rasim KADIC]; New Croatian
Initiative or NHI [Kresimir ZUBAK]; Party for Bosnia and Herzegovina
or SBH [Haris SILAJDZIC]; Party of Democratic Progress or PDP
[Mladen IVANIC]; Party of Independent Social Democrats or SNSD
[Milorad DODIK]; Pensioners' Party of FBiH [Husein VOJNIKOVIC];
Pensioners' Party of SR [Stojan BOGOSAVAC]; Republican Party of BiH
or RP [Stjepan KLJUIC]; Serb Democratic Party or Serb Lands or SDS
[Dragan KALINIC]; Serb National Alliance (Serb People's Alliance) or
SNS [Biljana PLAVSIC]; Social Democratic Party BIH or SDP-BiH
[Zlatko LAGUMDZIJA]; Socialist Party of Republika Srpska or SPRS
[Zivko RADISIC]

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: BIS, CE (guest), CEI,
EBRD, ECE, FAO, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, IDA, IFAD, IFC, ILO, IMF,
IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM (observer), ISO, ITU,
NAM (guest), OAS (observer), OIC (observer), OPCW, OSCE, UN, UNCTAD,
UNESCO, UNIDO, UNMEE, UNTAET, UPU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO
(observer)

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Igor DAVIDOVIC

chancery:  2109 E Street NW, Washington, DC 20037

telephone:  [1] (202) 337-1500

FAX:  [1] (202) 337-1502

consulate(s) general:  New York

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Thomas J. MILLER

embassy:  Alipasina 43, 71000 Sarajevo

mailing address:  use street address

telephone:  [387] (33) 445-700

FAX:  [387] (33) 659-722

branch office(s):  Banja Luka, Mostar

Flag description: a wide medium blue vertical band on the fly side
with a yellow isosceles triangle abutting the band and the top of
the flag; the remainder of the flag is medium blue with seven full
five-pointed white stars and two half stars top and bottom along the
hypotenuse of the triangle

Government - note: The Dayton Agreement, signed in Paris on 14
December 1995, retained Bosnia and Herzegovina's exterior border and
created a joint multi-ethnic and democratic government. This
national government - based on proportional representation similar
to that which existed in the former socialist regime - is charged
with conducting foreign, economic, and fiscal policy. The Dayton
Agreement also recognized a second tier of government, comprised of
two entities - a joint Bosniak/Croat Federation of Bosnia and
Herzegovina and the Bosnian Serb Republika Srpska (RS) - each
presiding over roughly one-half the territory. The Federation and RS
governments are charged with overseeing internal functions. The
Dayton Agreement established the Office of the High Representative
(OHR) to oversee the implementation of the civilian aspects of the
agreement. About 250 international and 450 local staff members are
employed by the OHR.



Bosnia and Herzegovina    Economy

Economy - overview: Bosnia and Herzegovina ranked next to The Former
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia as the poorest republic in the old
Yugoslav federation. Although agriculture is almost all in private
hands, farms are small and inefficient, and the republic
traditionally is a net importer of food. Industry has been greatly
overstaffed, one reflection of the socialist economic structure of
Yugoslavia. TITO had pushed the development of military industries
in the republic with the result that Bosnia hosted a large share of
Yugoslavia's defense plants. The bitter interethnic warfare in
Bosnia caused production to plummet by 80% from 1990 to 1995,
unemployment to soar, and human misery to multiply. With an uneasy
peace in place, output recovered in 1996-98 at high percentage rates
from a low base; but output growth slowed appreciably in 1999 and
2000, and GDP remains far below the 1990 level. Economic data are of
limited use because, although both entities issue figures,
national-level statistics are not available. Moreover, official data
do not capture the large share of activity that occurs on the black
market. The marka - the national currency introduced in 1998 - has
gained wide acceptance, and the Central Bank of Bosnia and
Herzegovina has dramatically increased its reserve holdings.
Implementation of privatization, however, has been slower than
anticipated. Banking reform accelerated in early 2001 as all the
communist-era payments bureaus were shut down. The country receives
substantial amounts of reconstruction assistance and humanitarian
aid from the international community but will have to prepare for an
era of declining assistance.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $6.5 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 8% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $1,700 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  19%

industry:  23%

services:  58% (1996 est.)

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 8% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 1.026 million

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture NA%, industry NA%, services
NA%

Unemployment rate: 35%-40% (1999 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $1.9 billion

expenditures:  $2.2 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
(1999 est.)

Industries: steel, coal, iron ore, lead, zinc, manganese, bauxite,
vehicle assembly, textiles, tobacco products, wooden furniture, tank
and aircraft assembly, domestic appliances, oil refining

Industrial production growth rate: 10% (2000 est.)

Electricity - production: 2.585 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  38.68%

hydro:  61.32%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 2.684 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 150 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 430 million kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: wheat, corn, fruits, vegetables; livestock

Exports: $950 million (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Exports - commodities: NA

Exports - partners: Croatia, Switzerland, Italy, Germany

Imports: $2.45 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Imports - commodities: NA

Imports - partners: Croatia, Slovenia, Germany, Italy

Debt - external: $3.4 billion (2000 est.)

Economic aid - recipient: $1 billion (1999 est.)

Currency: marka (BAM)

Currency code: BAM

Exchange rates: marka per US dollar - 2.086 (January 2001), 2.124
(2000), 1.837 (1999), 1.760 (1998), 1.734 (1997), 0.015 (1996)

Fiscal year: calendar year



Bosnia and Herzegovina    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 303,000 (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 9,000 (1997)

Telephone system: general assessment:  telephone and telegraph
network is in need of modernization and expansion; many urban areas
are below average when compared with services in other former
Yugoslav republics

domestic:  NA

international:  no satellite earth stations

Radio broadcast stations: AM 8, FM 16, shortwave 1 (1998)

Radios: 940,000 (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 33 (plus 277 repeaters) (September
1995)

Televisions: NA

Internet country code: .ba

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 3 (2000)

Internet users: 3,500 (2000)



Bosnia and Herzegovina    Transportation

Railways: total:  1,021 km (electrified 795 km; operating as diesel
or steam until grids are repaired)

standard gauge:  1,021 km 1.435-m gauge; note - many segments still
need repair and/or reconstruction (2000)

Highways: total:  21,846 km

paved:  14,020 km

unpaved:  7,826 km

note:  road system is in need of maintenance and repair (2001)

Waterways: NA km; large sections of the Sava blocked by downed
bridges, silt, and debris

Pipelines: crude oil 174 km; natural gas 90 km (1992)

Ports and harbors: Bosanska Gradiska, Bosanski Brod, Bosanski Samac,
and Brcko (all inland waterway ports on the Sava), Orasje

Merchant marine: none (2000 est.)

Airports: 28 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  9

2,438 to 3,047 m:  4

1,524 to 2,437 m:  2

under 914 m:  3 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  19

1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

914 to 1,523 m:  7

under 914 m:  11 (2000 est.)

Heliports: 4 (2000 est.)



Bosnia and Herzegovina    Military

Military branches: Federation Army or VF (composed of both Croatian
and Bosniak elements), Republika Srpska Army or VRS (composed of
Bosnian Serb elements); note - within both of these forces air and
air defense are subordinate commands

Military manpower - military age: 19 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  1,127,146 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
895,780 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  29,757
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $NA

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: NA%



Bosnia and Herzegovina    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

Illicit drugs: minor transit point for marijuana and opiate
trafficking routes to Western Europe

======================================================================

@Botswana




Botswana    Introduction

Background: Formerly the British protectorate of Bechuanaland,
Botswana adopted its new name upon independence in 1966. The
economy, one of the most robust on the continent, is dominated by
diamond mining.



Botswana    Geography

Location: Southern Africa, north of South Africa

Geographic coordinates: 22 00 S, 24 00 E

Map references: Africa

Area: total:  600,370 sq km

land:  585,370 sq km

water:  15,000 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly smaller than Texas

Land boundaries: total:  4,013 km

border countries:  Namibia 1,360 km, South Africa 1,840 km, Zimbabwe
813 km

Coastline: 0 km (landlocked)

Maritime claims: none (landlocked)

Climate: semiarid; warm winters and hot summers

Terrain: predominantly flat to gently rolling tableland; Kalahari
Desert in southwest

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  junction of the Limpopo and
Shashe Rivers 513 m

highest point:  Tsodilo Hills 1,489 m

Natural resources: diamonds, copper, nickel, salt, soda ash, potash,
coal, iron ore, silver

Land use: arable land:  1%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  46%

forests and woodland:  47%

other:  6% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 20 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: periodic droughts; seasonal August winds blow from
the west, carrying sand and dust across the country, which can
obscure visibility

Environment - current issues: overgrazing; desertification; limited
fresh water resources

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous
Wastes, Law of the Sea, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection,
Wetlands

signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Geography - note: landlocked; population concentrated in eastern
part of the country



Botswana    People

Population: 1,586,119

note:  estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
life expectancy, higher infant mortality and death rates, lower
population and growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  40.3% (male 321,164; female 318,007)

15-64 years:  55.56% (male 423,954; female 457,227)

65 years and over:  4.14% (male 26,691; female 39,076) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 0.47% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 28.85 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 24.18 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.03 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.01 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  0.93 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.68 male(s)/female

total population:  0.95 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 63.2 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  37.13 years

male:  36.77 years

female:  37.51 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 3.7 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 35.8% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 290,000 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: 24,000 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Motswana (singular), Batswana (plural)

adjective:  Motswana (singular), Batswana (plural)

Ethnic groups: Tswana (or Setswana) 79%, Kalanga 11%, Basarwa 3%,
other, including Kgalagadi and white 7%

Religions: indigenous beliefs 50%, Christian 50%

Languages: English (official), Setswana

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  69.8%

male:  80.5%

female:  59.9% (1995 est.)



Botswana    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Republic of Botswana

conventional short form:  Botswana

former:  Bechuanaland

Government type: parliamentary republic

Capital: Gaborone

Administrative divisions: 10 districts and four town councils*;
Central, Chobe, Francistown*, Gaborone*, Ghanzi, Kgalagadi,
Kgatleng, Kweneng, Lobatse*, Ngamiland, North-East, Selebi-Pikwe*,
South-East, Southern

Independence: 30 September 1966 (from UK)

National holiday: Independence Day, 30 September (1966)

Constitution: March 1965, effective 30 September 1966

Legal system: based on Roman-Dutch law and local customary law;
judicial review limited to matters of interpretation; has not
accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Festus MOGAE (since 1
April 1998) and Vice President Seretse Ian KHAMA (since 13 July
1998); note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
government

head of government:  President Festus MOGAE (since 1 April 1998) and
Vice President Seretse Ian KHAMA (since 13 July 1998); note - the
president is both the chief of state and head of government

cabinet:  Cabinet appointed by the president

elections:  president elected by the National Assembly for a
five-year term; election last held 16 October 1999 (next to be held
NA October 2004); vice president appointed by the president

election results:  Festus MOGAE elected president; percent of
National Assembly vote - 54.3%

Legislative branch: bicameral Parliament consists of the House of
Chiefs (a largely advisory 15-member body consisting of the chiefs
of the eight principal tribes, four elected subchiefs, and three
members selected by the other 12) and the National Assembly (44
seats, 40 members are directly elected by popular vote and 4
appointed by the majority party; members serve five-year terms)

elections:  National Assembly elections last held 16 October 1999
(next to be held NA October 2004)

election results:  percent of vote by party - BDP 57.2%, BNF 26%,
other 16.8%; seats by party - BDP 33, BNF 6, other 1

Judicial branch: High Court; Court of Appeal; Magistrates' Courts
(one in each district)

Political parties and leaders: Botswana Democratic Party or BDP
[Festus MOGAE]; Botswana National Front or BNF [Kenneth KOMA];
Botswana Congress Party or BCP [Michael DINGAKE]; Botswana Alliance
Movement or BAM [Ephraim Lepetu SETSHWAELO]

note:  main parties are: BDP, BNF, BCP; other minor parties joined
forces in 1999 to form the Botswana Alliance Movement or BAM
[Ephraim SETSHWAELO, chairman] but did not capture any parliamentary
seats; the BAM parties are: the United Action Party [Ephraim Lepetu
SETSHWAELO], the Botswana Peoples Party, the Independence Freedom
Party [Motsamai MPHO], and the Botswana Progressive Union [D. K.
KWELE]

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: ACP, AfDB, C, CCC, ECA,
FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF,
Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, ISO, ITU, NAM, OAU, OPCW, SACU, SADC, UN,
UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Kgosi SEEPAPITSO IV

chancery:  1531-1533 New Hampshire Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20036

telephone:  [1] (202) 244-4990

FAX:  [1] (202) 244-4164

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
John E. LANGE

embassy:  address NA, Gaborone

mailing address:  P. O. Box 90, Gaborone

telephone:  [267] 353982

FAX:  [267] 356947

Flag description: light blue with a horizontal white-edged black
stripe in the center



Botswana    Economy

Economy - overview: Botswana has maintained one of the world's
highest growth rates since independence in 1966. Through fiscal
discipline and sound management, Botswana has transformed itself
from one of the poorest countries in the world to a middle-income
country with a per capita GDP of $6,600 in 2000. Diamond mining has
fueled much of Botswana's economic expansion and currently accounts
for more than one-third of GDP and for three-fourths of export
earnings. Tourism, subsistence farming, and cattle raising are other
key sectors. The government must deal with high rates of
unemployment and poverty. Unemployment officially is 19%, but
unofficial estimates place it closer to 40%. HIV/AIDS infection
rates are the highest in the world and threaten Botswana's
impressive economic gains.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $10.4 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 6% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $6,600 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  4%

industry:  46% (including 36% mining)

services:  50% (1998 est.)

Population below poverty line: 47% (2000 est.)

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 8.6% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 235,000 formal sector employees (1995)

Labor force - by occupation: 100,000 public sector; 135,000 private
sector, including 14,300 who are employed in various mines in South
Africa; most others engaged in cattle raising and subsistence
agriculture (1995 est.)

Unemployment rate: 40% (2000 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $1.6 billion

expenditures:  $1.8 billion, including capital expenditures of $560
million (FY96)

Industries: diamonds, copper, nickel, coal, salt, soda ash, potash;
livestock processing

Industrial production growth rate: 6.2% (2000 est.)

Electricity - production: 610 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  100%

hydro:  0%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 1.517 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 950 million kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: sorghum, corn, millet, pulses, groundnuts
(peanuts), beans, cowpeas, sunflower seed; livestock

Exports: $2.6 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Exports - commodities: diamonds 72%, vehicles, copper, nickel, meat
(1998)

Exports - partners: EU 77%, Southern African Customs Union (SACU)
18%, Zimbabwe 3% (1998)

Imports: $2.2 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Imports - commodities: foodstuffs, machinery and transport
equipment, textiles, petroleum products

Imports - partners: Southern African Customs Union (SACU) 76%,
Europe 10%, South Korea 5% (1998)

Debt - external: $455 million (2000)

Economic aid - recipient: $73 million (1995)

Currency: pula (BWP)

Currency code: BWP

Exchange rates: pulas per US dollar - 5.4585 (January 2001), 5.1018
(2000), 4.6244 (1999), 4.2259 (1998), 3.6508 (1997), 3.3242 (1996)

Fiscal year: 1 April - 31 March



Botswana    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 86,000 (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: NA

Telephone system: general assessment:  sparse system

domestic:  small system of open-wire lines, microwave radio relay
links, and a few radiotelephone communication stations

international:  two international exchanges; digital microwave radio
relay links to Zambia, Zimbabwe, and South Africa; satellite earth
station - 1 Intelsat (Indian Ocean)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 7, FM 15, shortwave 5 (1998)

Radios: 237,000 (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 0 (1997)

Televisions: 31,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .bw

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 3 (2000)

Internet users: 12,000 (2000)



Botswana    Transportation

Railways: total:  888 km

narrow gauge:  888 km 1.067-m gauge (2000)

Highways: total:  18,482 km

paved:  4,343 km

unpaved:  14,139 km (1996)

Waterways: none

Ports and harbors: none

Airports: 92 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  11

2,438 to 3,047 m:  2

1,524 to 2,437 m:  8

914 to 1,523 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  81

1,524 to 2,437 m:  3

914 to 1,523 m:  56

under 914 m:  22 (2000 est.)



Botswana    Military

Military branches: Botswana Defense Force (includes Army and Air
Wing), Botswana National Police

Military manpower - military age: 18 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  380,152 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
199,995 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  19,479
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $61 million (FY99)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 1.2% (FY99)



Botswana    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

======================================================================

@Bouvet Island





Bouvet Island    Introduction

Background: This uninhabited volcanic island is almost entirely
covered by glaciers and is difficult to approach. It was discovered
in 1739 by a French naval officer after whom the island was named.
No claim was made until 1825 when the British flag was raised. In
1928, the UK waived its claim in favor of Norway, which had occupied
the island the previous year. In 1971, Bouvet Island and the
adjacent territorial waters were designated a nature reserve. Since
1977, Norway has run an automated meteorological station on the
island.



Bouvet Island    Geography

Location: Southern Africa, island in the South Atlantic Ocean,
south-southwest of the Cape of Good Hope (South Africa)

Geographic coordinates: 54 26 S, 3 24 E

Map references: Antarctic Region

Area: total:  58.5 sq km

land:  58.5 sq km

water:  0 sq km

Area - comparative: about 0.3 times the size of Washington, DC

Land boundaries: 0 km

Coastline: 29.6 km

Maritime claims: territorial sea:  4 NM

Climate: antarctic

Terrain: volcanic; maximum elevation about 800 m; coast is mostly
inaccessible

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  South Atlantic Ocean 0 m

highest point:  Olav Peak 935 m

Natural resources: none

Land use: arable land:  0%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  0%

forests and woodland:  0%

other:  100% (93% ice)

Irrigated land: 0 sq km (1993)

Natural hazards: NA

Environment - current issues: NA

Geography - note: covered by glacial ice; declared a nature reserve



Bouvet Island    People

Population: uninhabited (July 2001 est.)



Bouvet Island    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  none

conventional short form:  Bouvet Island

Dependency status: territory of Norway; administered by the Polar
Department of the Ministry of Justice and Police from Oslo

Legal system: the laws of Norway, where applicable, apply

Flag description: the flag of Norway is used



Bouvet Island    Economy

Economy - overview: no economic activity; declared a nature reserve



Bouvet Island    Communications

Internet country code: .bv

Communications - note: automatic meteorological station



Bouvet Island    Transportation

Waterways: none

Ports and harbors: none; offshore anchorage only



Bouvet Island    Military

Military - note: defense is the responsibility of Norway



Bouvet Island    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

======================================================================

@Brazil




Brazil    Introduction

Background: Following three centuries under the rule of Portugal,
Brazil became an independent nation in 1822. By far the largest and
most populous country in South America, Brazil has overcome more
than half a century of military intervention in the governance of
the country to pursue industrial and agricultural growth and
development of the interior. Exploiting vast natural resources and a
large labor pool, Brazil became Latin America's leading economic
power by the 1970s. Highly unequal income distribution remains a
pressing problem.



Brazil    Geography

Location: Eastern South America, bordering the Atlantic Ocean

Geographic coordinates: 10 00 S, 55 00 W

Map references: South America

Area: total:  8,511,965 sq km

land:  8,456,510 sq km

water:  55,455 sq km

note:  includes Arquipelago de Fernando de Noronha, Atol das Rocas,
Ilha da Trindade, Ilhas Martin Vaz, and Penedos de Sao Pedro e Sao
Paulo

Area - comparative: slightly smaller than the US

Land boundaries: total:  14,691 km

border countries:  Argentina 1,224 km, Bolivia 3,400 km, Colombia
1,643 km, French Guiana 673 km, Guyana 1,119 km, Paraguay 1,290 km,
Peru 1,560 km, Suriname 597 km, Uruguay 985 km, Venezuela 2,200 km

Coastline: 7,491 km

Maritime claims: contiguous zone:  24 NM

continental shelf:  200 NM

exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: mostly tropical, but temperate in south

Terrain: mostly flat to rolling lowlands in north; some plains,
hills, mountains, and narrow coastal belt

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Atlantic Ocean 0 m

highest point:  Pico da Neblina 3,014 m

Natural resources: bauxite, gold, iron ore, manganese, nickel,
phosphates, platinum, tin, uranium, petroleum, hydropower, timber

Land use: arable land:  5%

permanent crops:  1%

permanent pastures:  22%

forests and woodland:  58%

other:  14% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 28,000 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: recurring droughts in northeast; floods and
occasional frost in south

Environment - current issues: deforestation in Amazon Basin destroys
the habitat and endangers the existence of a multitude of plant and
animal species indigenous to the area; air and water pollution in
Rio de Janeiro, Sao Paulo, and several other large cities; land
degradation and water pollution caused by improper mining activities

note:  President CARDOSO in September 1999 signed into force an
environmental crime bill which for the first time defines pollution
and deforestation as crimes punishable by stiff fines and jail
sentences

Environment - international agreements: party to:
Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic-Marine Living Resources,
Antarctic Seals, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change,
Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification,
Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Nuclear Test Ban,
Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical
Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling

signed, but not ratified:  Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol

Geography - note: largest country in South America; shares common
boundaries with every South American country except Chile and Ecuador



Brazil    People

Population: 174,468,575

note:  Brazil took an intercensal count in August 1996 which
reported a population of 157,079,573; that figure was about 5% lower
than projections by the US Census Bureau, which is close to the
implied underenumeration of 4.6% for the 1991 census; estimates for
this country explicitly take into account the effects of excess
mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower life expectancy,
higher infant mortality and death rates, lower population and growth
rates, and changes in the distribution of population by age and sex
than would otherwise be expected (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  28.57% (male 25,390,039; female
24,449,902)

15-64 years:  65.98% (male 56,603,895; female 58,507,289)

65 years and over:  5.45% (male 3,857,564; female 5,659,886) (2001
est.)

Population growth rate: 0.91% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 18.45 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 9.34 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: -0.03 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  0.97 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.68 male(s)/female

total population:  0.97 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 36.96 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  63.24 years

male:  58.96 years

female:  67.73 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 2.09 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 0.57% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 540,000 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: 18,000 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Brazilian(s)

adjective:  Brazilian

Ethnic groups: white (includes Portuguese, German, Italian, Spanish,
Polish) 55%, mixed white and black 38%, black 6%, other (includes
Japanese, Arab, Amerindian) 1%

Religions: Roman Catholic (nominal) 80%

Languages: Portuguese (official), Spanish, English, French

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  83.3%

male:  83.3%

female:  83.2% (1995 est.)



Brazil    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Federative Republic of Brazil

conventional short form:  Brazil

local long form:  Republica Federativa do Brasil

local short form:  Brasil

Government type: federative republic

Capital: Brasilia

Administrative divisions: 26 states (estados, singular - estado) and
1 federal district* (distrito federal); Acre, Alagoas, Amapa,
Amazonas, Bahia, Ceara, Distrito Federal*, Espirito Santo, Goias,
Maranhao, Mato Grosso, Mato Grosso do Sul, Minas Gerais, Para,
Paraiba, Parana, Pernambuco, Piaui, Rio de Janeiro, Rio Grande do
Norte, Rio Grande do Sul, Rondonia, Roraima, Santa Catarina, Sao
Paulo, Sergipe, Tocantins

Independence: 7 September 1822 (from Portugal)

National holiday: Independence Day, 7 September (1822)

Constitution: 5 October 1988

Legal system: based on Roman codes; has not accepted compulsory ICJ
jurisdiction

Suffrage: voluntary between 16 and 18 years of age and over 70;
compulsory over 18 and under 70 years of age

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Fernando Henrique
CARDOSO (since 1 January 1995); Vice President Marco MACIEL (since 1
January 1995); note - the president is both the chief of state and
head of government

head of government:  President Fernando Henrique CARDOSO (since 1
January 1995); Vice President Marco MACIEL (since 1 January 1995);
note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
government

cabinet:  Cabinet appointed by the president

elections:  president and vice president elected on the same ticket
by popular vote for four-year terms; election last held 4 October
1998 (next to be held NA October 2002)

election results:  Fernando Henrique CARDOSO reelected president;
percent of vote - 53%

Legislative branch: bicameral National Congress or Congresso
Nacional consists of the Federal Senate or Senado Federal (81 seats;
three members from each state or federal district elected according
to the principle of majority to serve eight-year terms; one-third
elected after a four year period, two-thirds elected after the next
four-year period) and the Chamber of Deputies or Camara dos
Deputados (513 seats; members are elected by proportional
representation to serve four-year terms)

elections:  Federal Senate - last held 4 October 1998 for one-third
of Senate (next to be held NA October 2002 for two-thirds of the
Senate); Chamber of Deputies - last held 4 October 1998 (next to be
held NA October 2002)

election results:  Federal Senate - percent of vote by party - NA%;
seats by party - PMDB 27, PFL 20, PSDB 16, PT 7, PPB 5, PSB 3, PDT
2, PPS 1; Chamber of Deputies - percent of vote by party - NA%;
seats by party - PFL 106, PSDB 99, PMDB 82, PPB 60, PT 58, PTB 31,
PDT 25, PSB 19, PL 12, PCdoB 7, other 14

Judicial branch: Supreme Federal Tribunal (11 ministers are
appointed by the president and confirmed by the Senate); Higher
Tribunal of Justice; Regional Federal Tribunals (judges are
appointed for life)

Political parties and leaders: Brazilian Democratic Movement Party
or PMDB [Jader BARBALHO, president]; Brazilian Labor Party or PTB
[Roberto JEFFERSON]; Brazilian Social Democracy Party or PSDB
[Teotonio VILELA Filno]; Brazilian Socialist Party or PSB [Miguel
ARRAES, president]; Brazilian Progressive Party or PPB [Paulo Salim
MALUF]; Communist Party of Brazil or PCdoB [Sergio Roberto Gomes
SOUZA, chairman]; Democratic Labor Party or PDT [Leonel BRIZOLA,
president]; Liberal Front Party or PFL [Jorge BORNHAUSEN,
president]; Liberal Party or PL [Francisco Teixeira de OLIVEIRA];
Popular Socialist Party or PPS [Ciro GOMEZ, president]; Worker's
Party or PT [Jose DIRCEU, president]

Political pressure groups and leaders: left wing of the Catholic
Church, Landless Worker's Movement, and labor unions allied to
leftist Worker's Party are critical of government's social and
economic policies

International organization participation: AfDB, BIS, CCC, ECLAC,
FAO, G-11, G-15, G-19, G-24, G-77, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC,
ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat,
Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM (observer), ISO, ITU, LAES, LAIA,
Mercosur, NAM (observer), NSG, OAS, OPANAL, OPCW, PCA, RG, UN,
UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNITAR, UNMOP, UNTAET, UNU, UPU, WCL,
WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Rubens Antonio BARBOSA

chancery:  3006 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone:  [1] (202) 238-2700

FAX:  [1] (202) 238-2827

consulate(s) general:  Boston, Chicago, Houston, Los Angeles, Miami,
New York, and San Francisco

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Anthony S. HARRINGTON

embassy:  Avenida das Nacoes, Quadra 801, Lote 3, Distrito Federal
Cep 70403-900, Brasilia

mailing address:  Unit 3500, APO AA 34030

telephone:  [55] (061) 321-7272

FAX:  [55] (061) 225-9136

consulate(s) general:  Rio de Janeiro, Sao Paulo

consulate(s):  Recife

Flag description: green with a large yellow diamond in the center
bearing a blue celestial globe with 27 white five-pointed stars (one
for each state and the Federal District) arranged in the same
pattern as the night sky over Brazil; the globe has a white
equatorial band with the motto ORDEM E PROGRESSO (Order and Progress)



Brazil    Economy

Economy - overview: Possessing large and well-developed
agricultural, mining, manufacturing, and service sectors, Brazil's
economy outweighs that of all other South American countries and is
expanding its presence in world markets. In the late eighties and
early nineties, high inflation hindered economic activity and
investment. "The Real Plan", instituted in the spring of 1994,
sought to break inflationary expectations by pegging the real to the
US dollar. Inflation was brought down to single digit annual
figures, but not fast enough to avoid substantial real exchange rate
appreciation during the transition phase of the "Real Plan". This
appreciation meant that Brazilian goods were now more expensive
relative to goods from other countries, which contributed to large
current account deficits. However, no shortage of foreign currency
ensued because of the financial community's renewed interest in
Brazilian markets as inflation rates stabilized and the debt crisis
of the eighties faded from memory. The maintenance of large current
account deficits via capital account surpluses became problematic as
investors became more risk averse to emerging market exposure as a
consequence of the Asian financial crisis in 1997 and the Russian
bond default in August 1998. After crafting a fiscal adjustment
program and pledging progress on structural reform, Brazil received
a $41.5 billion IMF-led international support program in November
1998. In January 1999, the Brazilian Central Bank announced that the
real would no longer be pegged to the US dollar. This devaluation
helped moderate the downturn in economic growth in 1999 that
investors had expressed concerns about over the summer of 1998.
Brazil's debt to GDP ratio for 1999 beat the IMF target and helped
reassure investors that Brazil will maintain tight fiscal and
monetary policy even with a floating currency. The economy continued
to recover in 2000, with inflation remaining in the single digits
and expected growth for 2001 of 4.5%. Foreign direct investment set
a record of more than $30 billion in 2000.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $1.13 trillion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 4.2% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $6,500 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  9%

industry:  29%

services:  62% (1999 est.)

Population below poverty line: 17.4% (1990 est.)

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  1%

highest 10%:  47.6% (1996)

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 6% (2000)

Labor force: 79 million (1999 est.)

Labor force - by occupation: services 53.2%, agriculture 23.1%,
industry 23.7%

Unemployment rate: 7.1% (2000 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $151 billion

expenditures:  $149 billion, including capital expenditures of $36
billion (1998)

Industries: textiles, shoes, chemicals, cement, lumber, iron ore,
tin, steel, aircraft, motor vehicles and parts, other machinery and
equipment

Industrial production growth rate: 6.9% (2000 est.)

Electricity - production: 337.44 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  5.28%

hydro:  90.66%

nuclear:  1.12%

other:  2.94% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 353.674 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 5 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 39.86 billion kWh

note:  supplied by Paraguay (1999)

Agriculture - products: coffee, soybeans, wheat, rice, corn,
sugarcane, cocoa, citrus; beef

Exports: $55.1 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Exports - commodities: manufactures, iron ore, soybeans, footwear,
coffee

Exports - partners: US 23%, Argentina 11%, Germany 5%, Netherlands
5%, Japan 5% (1999)

Imports: $55.8 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Imports - commodities: machinery and equipment, chemical products,
oil, electricity

Imports - partners: US 24%, Argentina 12%, Germany 10%, Japan 5%,
Italy 5% (1999)

Debt - external: $232 billion (2000)

Economic aid - recipient: NA

Currency: real (BRL)

Currency code: BRL

Exchange rates: reals per US dollar - 1.954 (January 2001), 1.830
(2000), 1.815 (1999), 1.161 (1998), 1.078 (1997), 1.005 (1996)

note:  from October 1994 through 14 January 1999, the official rate
was determined by a managed float; since 15 January 1999, the
official rate floats independently with respect to the US dollar

Fiscal year: calendar year



Brazil    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 17.039 million (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 4.4 million (1997)

Telephone system: general assessment:  good working system

domestic:  extensive microwave radio relay system and a domestic
satellite system with 64 earth stations

international:  3 coaxial submarine cables; satellite earth stations
- 3 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean), 1 Inmarsat (Atlantic Ocean region
east), connected by microwave relay system to MERCOSUR Brazilsat B3
satellite earth station

Radio broadcast stations: AM 1,365, FM 296, shortwave 161 (of which
91 are collocated with AM stations) (1999)

Radios: 71 million (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 138 (1997)

Televisions: 36.5 million (1997)

Internet country code: .br

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 50 (2000)

Internet users: 8.65 million (2000)



Brazil    Transportation

Railways: total:  30,539 km (2,129 km electrified); note - excludes
urban rail

broad gauge:  5,679 km 1.600-m gauge (1199 km electrified)

standard gauge:  194 km 1.440-m gauge

narrow gauge:  24,666 km 1.000-m gauge (930 km electrified)

dual gauge:  336 km 1.000-m and 1.600-m gauges (three rails) (1999
est.)

Highways: total:  1.98 million km

paved:  184,140 km

unpaved:  1,795,860 km (1996)

Waterways: 50,000 km

Pipelines: crude oil 2,980 km; petroleum products 4,762 km; natural
gas 4,246 km (1998)

Ports and harbors: Belem, Fortaleza, Ilheus, Imbituba, Manaus,
Paranagua, Porto Alegre, Recife, Rio de Janeiro, Rio Grande,
Salvador, Santos, Vitoria

Merchant marine: total:  171 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
3,788,999 GRT/6,067,314 DWT

ships by type:  bulk 33, cargo 26, chemical tanker 5, combination
ore/oil 9, container 12, liquefied gas 11, multi-functional
large-load carrier 1, passenger/cargo 5, petroleum tanker 56, roll
on/roll off 12, short-sea passenger 1 (2000 est.)

Airports: 3,264 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  570

over 3,047 m:  5

2,438 to 3,047 m:  21

1,524 to 2,437 m:  141

914 to 1,523 m:  370

under 914 m:  33 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  2,694

1,524 to 2,437 m:  68

914 to 1,523 m:  1,279

under 914 m:  1,347 (2000 est.)



Brazil    Military

Military branches: Brazilian Army, Brazilian Navy (includes naval
air and marines), Brazilian Air Force, Federal Police (paramilitary)

Military manpower - military age: 18 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  48,298,486 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
32,388,786 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:
1,762,740 (2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $13.408 billion (FY99)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 1.9% (FY99)



Brazil    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

Illicit drugs: limited illicit producer of cannabis, minor coca
cultivation in the Amazon region, mostly used for domestic
consumption; government has a large-scale eradication program to
control cannabis; important transshipment country for Bolivian,
Colombian, and Peruvian cocaine headed for the US and Europe; also
used by traffickers as a way station for narcotics air
transshipments between Peru and Colombia; upsurge in drug-related
violence and weapons smuggling; important market for Bolivian,
Peruvian, and Colombian cocaine

======================================================================

@British Indian Ocean Territory





British Indian Ocean Territory    Introduction

Background: Established as a territory of the UK in 1965, a number
of the British Indian Ocean Territory (BIOT) islands were
transferred to the Seychelles when it attained independence in 1976.
Subsequently, BIOT has consisted only of the six main island groups
comprising the Chagos Archipelago. The largest and most southerly of
the islands, Diego Garcia, contains a joint UK-US naval support
facility. All of the remaining islands are uninhabited. Former
agricultural workers, earlier resident in the islands, were
relocated primarily to Mauritius but also to the Seychelles, between
1967 and 1973. In 2000, a British High Court ruling invalidated the
local immigration order which had excluded them from the
archipelago, but upheld the special military status of Diego Garcia.



British Indian Ocean Territory    Geography

Location: Southern Asia, archipelago in the Indian Ocean, about
one-half the way from Africa to Indonesia

Geographic coordinates: 6 00 S, 71 30 E

Map references: World

Area: total:  60 sq km

land:  60 sq km

water:  0 sq km

note:  includes the entire Chagos Archipelago

Area - comparative: about 0.3 times the size of Washington, DC

Land boundaries: 0 km

Coastline: 698 km

Maritime claims: exclusive fishing zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  3 NM

Climate: tropical marine; hot, humid, moderated by trade winds

Terrain: flat and low (most areas do not exceed four meters in
elevation)

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Indian Ocean 0 m

highest point:  unnamed location on Diego Garcia 15 m

Natural resources: coconuts, fish, sugarcane

Land use: arable land:  0%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  0%

forests and woodland:  NA%

other:  NA%

Irrigated land: 0 sq km (1993)

Natural hazards: NA

Environment - current issues: NA

Geography - note: archipelago of 2,300 islands; Diego Garcia,
largest and southernmost island, occupies strategic location in
central Indian Ocean; island is site of joint US-UK military facility



British Indian Ocean Territory    People

Population: no indigenous inhabitants

note:  approximately 1,200 former agricultural workers resident in
the Chagos Archipelago, often referred to as Chagossians or Ilois,
were relocated to Mauritius and the Seychelles around the time of
the construction of UK-US military facilities; in 1995, there were
approximately 1,700 UK and US military personnel and 1,500 civilian
contractors living on the island of Diego Garcia



British Indian Ocean Territory    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  British Indian Ocean Territory

conventional short form:  none

abbreviation:  BIOT

Dependency status: overseas territory of the UK; administered by a
commissioner, resident in the Foreign and Commonwealth Office in
London

Legal system: the laws of the UK, where applicable, apply

Executive branch: chief of state:  Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6
February 1952)

head of government:  Commissioner John WHITE (since NA);
Administrator Louise SAVILL (since NA); note - both reside in the UK

cabinet:  NA

elections:  none; the monarch is hereditary; commissioner and
administrator appointed by the monarch

Diplomatic representation in the US: none (overseas territory of the
UK)

Diplomatic representation from the US: none (overseas territory of
the UK)

Flag description: white with six blue wavy horizontal stripes; the
flag of the UK is in the upper hoist-side quadrant; the striped
section bears a palm tree and yellow crown centered on the outer
half of the flag



British Indian Ocean Territory    Economy

Economy - overview: All economic activity is concentrated on the
largest island of Diego Garcia, where joint UK-US defense facilities
are located. Construction projects and various services needed to
support the military installations are done by military and contract
employees from the UK, Mauritius, the Philippines, and the US. There
are no industrial or agricultural activities on the islands. When
the Ilois return, they plan to reestablish sugarcane production and
fishing.

Electricity - production: NA kWh; note - electricity supplied by the
US military

Electricity - consumption: NA kWh



British Indian Ocean Territory    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: NA

Telephone system: general assessment:  separate facilities for
military and public needs are available

domestic:  all commercial telephone services are available,
including connection to the Internet

international:  international telephone service is carried by
satellite (2000)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 1, FM 2, shortwave 0 (1998)

Radios: NA

Television broadcast stations: 1 (1997)

Televisions: NA

Internet country code: .io

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 1 (2000)



British Indian Ocean Territory    Transportation

Highways: total:  NA km

paved:  short stretch of paved road of NA km between port and
airfield on Diego Garcia

unpaved:  NA km

Waterways: none

Ports and harbors: Diego Garcia

Airports: 1 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  1

over 3,047 m:  1 (2000 est.)



British Indian Ocean Territory    Military

Military - note: defense is the responsibility of the UK; the US
lease on Diego Garcia expires in 2016



British Indian Ocean Territory    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: the Chagos Archipelago is claimed by
Mauritius and Seychelles

======================================================================

@British Virgin Islands





British Virgin Islands    Introduction

Background: First settled by the Dutch in 1648, the islands were
soon after (1672) annexed by the English. The economy is closely
tied to the larger and more populous US Virgin Islands to the west;
the US dollar is the legal currency.



British Virgin Islands    Geography

Location: Caribbean, between the Caribbean Sea and the North
Atlantic Ocean, east of Puerto Rico

Geographic coordinates: 18 30 N, 64 30 W

Map references: Central America and the Caribbean

Area: total:  150 sq km

land:  150 sq km

water:  0 sq km

note:  includes the island of Anegada

Area - comparative: about 0.9 times the size of Washington, DC

Land boundaries: 0 km

Coastline: 80 km

Maritime claims: exclusive fishing zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  3 NM

Climate: subtropical; humid; temperatures moderated by trade winds

Terrain: coral islands relatively flat; volcanic islands steep, hilly

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Caribbean Sea 0 m

highest point:  Mount Sage 521 m

Natural resources: NEGL

Land use: arable land:  20%

permanent crops:  7%

permanent pastures:  33%

forests and woodland:  7%

other:  33% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: NA sq km

Natural hazards: hurricanes and tropical storms (July to October)

Environment - current issues: limited natural fresh water resources
(except for a few seasonal streams and springs on Tortola, most of
the islands' water supply comes from wells and rainwater catchment)

Geography - note: strong ties to nearby US Virgin Islands and Puerto
Rico



British Virgin Islands    People

Population: 20,812 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  22.77% (male 2,399; female 2,339)

15-64 years:  72.31% (male 7,741; female 7,309)

65 years and over:  4.92% (male 555; female 469) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 2.22% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 15.18 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 4.42 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 11.39 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.03 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1.06 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  1.18 male(s)/female

total population:  1.06 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 20.3 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  75.64 years

male:  74.74 years

female:  76.59 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 1.72 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: NA%

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: NA

HIV/AIDS - deaths: NA

Nationality: noun:  British Virgin Islander(s)

adjective:  British Virgin Islander

Ethnic groups: black 90%, white, Asian

Religions: Protestant 86% (Methodist 45%, Anglican 21%, Church of
God 7%, Seventh-Day Adventist 5%, Baptist 4%, Jehovah's Witnesses
2%, other 2%), Roman Catholic 6%, none 2%, other 6% (1981)

Languages: English (official)

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  97.8% (1991 est.)

male:  NA%

female:  NA%



British Virgin Islands    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  none

conventional short form:  British Virgin Islands

abbreviation:  BVI

Dependency status: overseas territory of the UK

Government type: NA

Capital: Road Town

Administrative divisions: none (overseas territory of the UK)

Independence: none (overseas territory of the UK)

National holiday: Territory Day, 1 July

Constitution: 1 June 1977

Legal system: English law

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6
February 1952), represented by Governor Francis J. SAVAGE (since NA)

head of government:  Chief Minister Ralph T. O'NEAL (since 15 May
1995)

cabinet:  Executive Council appointed by the governor from members
of the Legislative Council

elections:  none; the monarch is hereditary; governor appointed by
the monarch; chief minister appointed by the governor from among the
members of the Legislative Council

Legislative branch: unicameral Legislative Council (13 seats;
members are elected by direct popular vote, one member from each of
9 electoral districts, four at-large members; members serve
five-year terms)

elections:  last held 17 May 1999 (next to be held NA 2004)

election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
VIP 7, CCM 1, NDP 5

Judicial branch: Eastern Caribbean Supreme Court, consisting of the
High Court of Justice and the Court of Appeal (one judge of the
Supreme Court is a resident of the islands and presides over the
High Court); Magistrate's Court; Juvenile Court; Court of Summary
Jurisdiction

Political parties and leaders: Concerned Citizens Movement or CCM
[Ethlyn SMITH]; National Democratic Party or NDP [Orlando SMITH];
United Party or UP [Gregory MADURO]; Virgin Islands Party or VIP
[Ralph T. O'NEAL]

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: Caricom (associate), CDB,
ECLAC (associate), Interpol (subbureau), IOC, OECS (associate),
UNESCO (associate)

Diplomatic representation in the US: none (overseas territory of the
UK)

Diplomatic representation from the US: none (overseas territory of
the UK)

Flag description: blue, with the flag of the UK in the upper
hoist-side quadrant and the Virgin Islander coat of arms centered in
the outer half of the flag; the coat of arms depicts a woman flanked
on either side by a vertical column of six oil lamps above a scroll
bearing the Latin word VIGILATE (Be Watchful)



British Virgin Islands    Economy

Economy - overview: The economy, one of the most stable and
prosperous in the Caribbean, is highly dependent on tourism, which
generates an estimated 45% of the national income. An estimated
350,000 tourists, mainly from the US, visited the islands in 1997.
In the mid-1980s, the government began offering offshore
registration to companies wishing to incorporate in the islands, and
incorporation fees now generate substantial revenues. An estimated
250,000 companies were on the offshore registry by yearend 1997. The
adoption of a comprehensive insurance law in late 1994, which
provides a blanket of confidentiality with regulated statutory
gateways for investigation of criminal offenses, is expected to make
the British Virgin Islands even more attractive to international
business. Livestock raising is the most important agricultural
activity; poor soils limit the islands' ability to meet domestic
food requirements. Because of traditionally close links with the US
Virgin Islands, the British Virgin Islands has used the dollar as
its currency since 1959.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $311 million (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 6% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $16,000 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  1.8%

industry:  6.2%

services:  92% (1996 est.)

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 2% (2000)

Labor force: 4,911 (1980)

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture NA%, industry NA%, services
NA%

Unemployment rate: 3% (1995)

Budget: revenues:  $121.5 million

expenditures:  $115.5 million, including capital expenditures of $NA
(1997)

Industries: tourism, light industry, construction, rum, concrete
block, offshore financial center

Industrial production growth rate: 4% (1985)

Electricity - production: 42 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  100%

hydro:  0%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 39.1 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: fruits, vegetables; livestock, poultry; fish

Exports: $6.2 million (2000 est.)

Exports - commodities: rum, fresh fish, fruits, animals; gravel, sand

Exports - partners: Virgin Islands (US), Puerto Rico, US

Imports: $220 million (2000 est.)

Imports - commodities: building materials, automobiles, foodstuffs,
machinery

Imports - partners: Virgin Islands (US), Puerto Rico, US

Debt - external: $36.1 million (1997)

Economic aid - recipient: $2.6 million (1995)

Currency: US dollar (USD)

Currency code: USD

Exchange rates: the US dollar is used

Fiscal year: 1 April - 31 March



British Virgin Islands    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 10,000 (1996)

Telephones - mobile cellular: NA

Telephone system: general assessment:  worldwide telephone service

domestic:  NA

international:  submarine cable to Bermuda

Radio broadcast stations: AM 1, FM 4, shortwave 0 (1998)

Radios: 9,000 (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 1 (plus one cable company) (1997)

Televisions: 4,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .vg

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 16 (2000)

Internet users: NA



British Virgin Islands    Transportation

Railways: 0 km

Highways: total:  132 km

paved:  132 km

unpaved:  0 km (1997)

Waterways: none

Ports and harbors: Road Town

Merchant marine: total:  1 ship (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 70,285
GRT/6,946 DWT

ships by type:  passenger 1 (2000 est.)

Airports: 3 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  2

914 to 1,523 m:  1

under 914 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  1

914 to 1,523 m:  1 (2000 est.)



British Virgin Islands    Military

Military - note: defense is the responsibility of the UK



British Virgin Islands    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

Illicit drugs: transshipment point for South American narcotics
destined for the US and Europe

======================================================================

@Brunei




Brunei    Introduction

Background: The Sultanate of Brunei's heyday occurred between the
15th and 17th centuries, when its control extended over coastal
areas of northwest Borneo and the southern Philippines. Brunei
subsequently entered a period of decline brought on by internal
strife over royal succession, colonial expansion of European powers,
and piracy. In 1888, Brunei became a British protectorate;
independence was achieved in 1984. Brunei benefits from extensive
petroleum and natural gas fields, the source of one of the highest
per capita GDPs in the less developed countries. The same family has
now ruled in Brunei for over six centuries.



Brunei    Geography

Location: Southeastern Asia, bordering the South China Sea and
Malaysia

Geographic coordinates: 4 30 N, 114 40 E

Map references: Southeast Asia

Area: total:  5,770 sq km

land:  5,270 sq km

water:  500 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly smaller than Delaware

Land boundaries: total:  381 km

border countries:  Malaysia 381 km

Coastline: 161 km

Maritime claims: exclusive economic zone:  200 NM or to median line

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: tropical; hot, humid, rainy

Terrain: flat coastal plain rises to mountains in east; hilly
lowland in west

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  South China Sea 0 m

highest point:  Bukit Pagon 1,850 m

Natural resources: petroleum, natural gas, timber

Land use: arable land:  1%

permanent crops:  1%

permanent pastures:  1%

forests and woodland:  85%

other:  12% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 10 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: typhoons, earthquakes, and severe flooding are very
rare

Environment - current issues: seasonal smoke/haze resulting from
forest fires in Indonesia

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Endangered
Species, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution

signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Geography - note: close to vital sea lanes through South China Sea
linking Indian and Pacific Oceans; two parts physically separated by
Malaysia; almost an enclave of Malaysia



Brunei    People

Population: 343,653 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  30.77% (male 53,977; female 51,772)

15-64 years:  66.52% (male 121,601; female 107,007)

65 years and over:  2.71% (male 4,449; female 4,847) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 2.11% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 20.45 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 3.38 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 4.07 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.06 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1.14 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.92 male(s)/female

total population:  1.1 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 14.4 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  73.82 years

male:  71.45 years

female:  76.31 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 2.44 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 0.2% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: less than 100 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: NA

Nationality: noun:  Bruneian(s)

adjective:  Bruneian

Ethnic groups: Malay 67%, Chinese 15%, indigenous 6%, other 12%

Religions: Muslim (official) 67%, Buddhist 13%, Christian 10%,
indigenous beliefs and other 10%

Languages: Malay (official), English, Chinese

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  88.2%

male:  92.6%

female:  83.4% (1995 est.)



Brunei    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Negara Brunei Darussalam

conventional short form:  Brunei

Government type: constitutional sultanate

Capital: Bandar Seri Begawan

Administrative divisions: 4 districts (daerah-daerah, singular -
daerah); Belait, Brunei and Muara, Temburong, Tutong

Independence: 1 January 1984 (from UK)

National holiday: National Day, 23 February (1984); note - 1 January
1984 was the date of independence from the UK, 23 February 1984 was
the date of independence from British protection

Constitution: 29 September 1959 (some provisions suspended under a
State of Emergency since December 1962, others since independence on
1 January 1984)

Legal system: based on English common law; for Muslims, Islamic
Shari'a law supersedes civil law in a number of areas

Suffrage: none

Executive branch: chief of state:  Sultan and Prime Minister Sir
HASSANAL Bolkiah (since 5 October 1967); note - the monarch is both
the chief of state and head of government

head of government:  Sultan and Prime Minister Sir HASSANAL Bolkiah
(since 5 October 1967); note - the monarch is both the chief of
state and head of government

cabinet:  Council of Cabinet Ministers appointed and presided over
by the monarch; deals with executive matters; note - there is also a
Religious Council (members appointed by the monarch) that advises on
religious matters, a Privy Council (members appointed by the
monarch) that deals with constitutional matters, and the Council of
Succession (members appointed by the monarch) that determines the
succession to the throne if the need arises

elections:  none; the monarch is hereditary

Legislative branch: unicameral Legislative Council or Majlis
Masyuarat Megeri (a privy council that serves only in a consultative
capacity; NA seats; members appointed by the monarch)

elections:  last held in March 1962

note:  in 1970 the Council was changed to an appointive body by
decree of the monarch; an elected Legislative Council is being
considered as part of constitutional reform, but elections are
unlikely for several years

Judicial branch: Supreme Court (chief justice and judges are sworn
in by the monarch for three-year terms)

Political parties and leaders: Brunei Solidarity National Party or
PPKB in Malay [Haji Mohd HATTA bin Haji Zainal Abidin, president];
the PPKB is the only legal political party in Brunei; it was
registered in 1985, but became largely inactive after 1988, it was
revived in 1995 and again in 1998; it has less than 200 registered
party members; other parties include Brunei People's Party or PRB
(banned in 1962) and Brunei National Democratic Party (registered in
May 1965, deregistered by the Brunei Government in 1988)

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: APEC, ARF, ASEAN, C, CCC,
ESCAP, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICRM, IDB, IFRCS, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat,
Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, ISO (correspondent), ITU, NAM, OIC, OPCW,
UN, UNCTAD, UPU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTrO

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Pengiran Anak Dato Haji PUTEH Ibni Mohammad Alam

chancery:  3520 International Court NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone:  [1] (202) 342-0159

FAX:  [1] (202) 342-0158

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Sylvia Gaye STANFIELD

embassy:  Third Floor, Teck Guan Plaza, Jalan Sultan, Bandar Seri
Begawan

mailing address:  PSC 470 (BSB), FPO AP 96507

telephone:  [673] (2) 229670

FAX:  [673] (2) 225293

Flag description: yellow with two diagonal bands of white (top,
almost double width) and black starting from the upper hoist side;
the national emblem in red is superimposed at the center; the emblem
includes a swallow-tailed flag on top of a winged column within an
upturned crescent above a scroll and flanked by two upraised hands



Brunei    Economy

Economy - overview: This small, wealthy economy is a mixture of
foreign and domestic entrepreneurship, government regulation and
welfare measures, and village tradition. Exports of crude oil and
natural gas account for over half of GDP. Per capita GDP is far
above most other Third World countries, and substantial income from
overseas investment supplements income from domestic production. The
government provides for all medical services and subsidizes rice and
housing. Brunei's leaders are concerned that steadily increased
integration in the world economy will undermine internal social
cohesion although it became a more prominent player by serving as
chairman for the 2000 APEC (Asian Pacific Economic Cooperation)
forum. Plans for the future include upgrading the labor force,
reducing unemployment, strengthening the banking and tourist
sectors, and, in general, a further widening of the economic base
beyond oil and gas.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $5.9 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 3% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $17,600 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  5%

industry:  46%

services:  49% (1996 est.)

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 1% (1999 est.)

Labor force: 144,000 (1995 est.); note - includes foreign workers
and military personnel

note:  temporary residents make up 41% of labor force (1991)

Labor force - by occupation: government 48%, production of oil,
natural gas, services, and construction 42%, agriculture, forestry,
and fishing 10% (1999 est.)

Unemployment rate: 4.9% (1995 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $2.5 billion

expenditures:  $2.6 billion, including capital expenditures of $1.35
billion (1997 est.)

Industries: petroleum, petroleum refining, liquefied natural gas,
construction

Industrial production growth rate: 4% (1997 est.)

Electricity - production: 2.445 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  100%

hydro:  0%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 2.274 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: rice, vegetables, fruits, chickens, water
buffalo

Exports: $2.55 billion (f.o.b., 1999 est.)

Exports - commodities: crude oil, natural gas, refined products

Exports - partners: Japan 42%, US 17%, South Korea 14%, Thailand 3%
(1999)

Imports: $1.3 billion (c.i.f., 1999 est.)

Imports - commodities: machinery and transport equipment,
manufactured goods, food, chemicals

Imports - partners: Singapore 34%, UK 15%, Malaysia 15%, US 5% (1999)

Debt - external: $0

Economic aid - recipient: $4.3 million (1995)

Currency: Bruneian dollar (BND)

Currency code: BND

Exchange rates: Bruneian dollars per US dollar - 1.7365 (January
2001), 1.7240 (2000), 1.6950 (1999), 1.6736 (1998), 1.4848 (1997),
1.4100 (1996); note - the Bruneian dollar is at par with the
Singapore dollar

Fiscal year: calendar year



Brunei    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 79,000 (1996)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 43,524 (1996)

Telephone system: general assessment:  service throughout country is
excellent; international service good to Europe, US, and East Asia

domestic:  every service available

international:  satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat (1 Indian
Ocean and 1 Pacific Ocean); digital submarine cable links to
Malaysia, Singapore, and Philippines (2001)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 3, FM 10, shortwave 0 (1998)

Radios: 329,000 (1998)

Television broadcast stations: 2 (1997)

Televisions: 201,900 (1998)

Internet country code: .bn

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 2 (2000)

Internet users: 28,000 (2001)



Brunei    Transportation

Railways: total:  13 km (private line)

narrow gauge:  13 km 0.610-m gauge

Highways: total:  1,712 km

paved:  1,284 km

unpaved:  428 km (1996)

Waterways: 209 km; navigable by craft drawing less than 1.2 m

Pipelines: crude oil 135 km; petroleum products 418 km; natural gas
920 km

Ports and harbors: Bandar Seri Begawan, Kuala Belait, Muara, Seria,
Tutong

Merchant marine: total:  7 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
348,476 GRT/340,635 DWT

ships by type:  liquefied gas 7 (2000 est.)

Airports: 2 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  1

over 3,047 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  1

914 to 1,523 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Heliports: 3 (2000 est.)



Brunei    Military

Military branches: Land Forces, Navy, Air Force, Royal Brunei Police

Military manpower - military age: 18 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  106,725 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
61,640 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  3,005
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $343 million (FY98)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 5.1% (FY98)



Brunei    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: possibly involved in a complex dispute
over the Spratly Islands with China, Malaysia, Philippines, Taiwan,
and Vietnam; in 1984, Brunei established an exclusive fishing zone
that encompasses Louisa Reef in the southern Spratly Islands, but
has not publicly claimed the island

Illicit drugs: drug trafficking and illegally importing controlled
substances are serious offenses in Brunei and carry a mandatory
death penalty

======================================================================

@Bulgaria




Bulgaria    Introduction

Background: Bulgaria earned its independence from the Ottoman Empire
in 1878, but having fought on the losing side in both World Wars, it
fell within the Soviet sphere of influence and became a People's
Republic in 1946. Communist domination ended in 1990, when Bulgaria
held its first multi-party election since World War II and began the
contentious process of moving toward political democracy and a
market economy while combating inflation, unemployment, corruption,
and crime. Today, reforms and democratization keep Bulgaria on a
path toward eventual integration into NATO and the EU - with which
it began accession negotiations in 2000.



Bulgaria    Geography

Location: Southeastern Europe, bordering the Black Sea, between
Romania and Turkey

Geographic coordinates: 43 00 N, 25 00 E

Map references: Europe

Area: total:  110,910 sq km

land:  110,550 sq km

water:  360 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly larger than Tennessee

Land boundaries: total:  1,808 km

border countries:  Greece 494 km, The Former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia 148 km, Romania 608 km, Yugoslavia 318 km, Turkey 240 km

Coastline: 354 km

Maritime claims: contiguous zone:  24 NM

exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: temperate; cold, damp winters; hot, dry summers

Terrain: mostly mountains with lowlands in north and southeast

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Black Sea 0 m

highest point:  Musala 2,925 m

Natural resources: bauxite, copper, lead, zinc, coal, timber, arable
land

Land use: arable land:  43%

permanent crops:  2%

permanent pastures:  14%

forests and woodland:  38%

other:  3% (1999 est.)

Irrigated land: 12,370 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: earthquakes, landslides

Environment - current issues: air pollution from industrial
emissions; rivers polluted from raw sewage, heavy metals,
detergents; deforestation; forest damage from air pollution and
resulting acid rain; soil contamination from heavy metals from
metallurgical plants and industrial wastes

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Air Pollution,
Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air Pollution-Sulphur 85, Air
Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds, Antarctic-Environmental
Protocol, Antarctic-Marine Living Resources, Antarctic Treaty,
Biodiversity, Climate Change, Endangered Species, Environmental
Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Nuclear Test Ban,
Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands

signed, but not ratified:  Air Pollution-Persistent Organic
Pollutants, Air Pollution-Sulphur 94, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol

Geography - note: strategic location near Turkish Straits; controls
key land routes from Europe to Middle East and Asia



Bulgaria    People

Population: 7,707,495 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  15.11% (male 597,765; female 567,030)

15-64 years:  68.17% (male 2,588,805; female 2,665,736)

65 years and over:  16.72% (male 543,665; female 744,494) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: -1.14% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 8.06 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 14.53 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: -4.9 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.06 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  0.97 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.73 male(s)/female

total population:  0.94 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 14.65 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  71.2 years

male:  67.72 years

female:  74.89 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 1.13 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 0.01% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: NA

HIV/AIDS - deaths: less than 100 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Bulgarian(s)

adjective:  Bulgarian

Ethnic groups: Bulgarian 83%, Turk 8.5%, Roma 2.6%, Macedonian,
Armenian, Tatar, Gagauz, Circassian, others (1998)

Religions: Bulgarian Orthodox 83.5%, Muslim 13%, Roman Catholic
1.5%, Uniate Catholic 0.2%, Jewish 0.8%, Protestant,
Gregorian-Armenian, and other 1% (1998)

Languages: Bulgarian, secondary languages closely correspond to
ethnic breakdown

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  98%

male:  99%

female:  98% (1999)



Bulgaria    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Republic of Bulgaria

conventional short form:  Bulgaria

Government type: parliamentary democracy

Capital: Sofia

Administrative divisions: 28 provinces (oblasti, singular - oblast);
Blagoevgrad, Burgas, Dobrich, Gabrovo, Khaskovo, Kurdzhali,
Kyustendil, Lovech, Montana, Pazardzhik, Pernik, Pleven, Plovdiv,
Razgrad, Ruse, Shumen, Silistra, Sliven, Smolyan, Sofiya,
Sofiya-Grad, Stara Zagora, Turgovishte, Varna, Veliko Turnovo,
Vidin, Vratsa, Yambol

Independence: 3 March 1878 (from Ottoman Empire)

National holiday: Liberation Day, 3 March (1878)

Constitution: adopted 12 July 1991

Legal system: civil law and criminal law based on Roman law; accepts
compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Petar STOYANOV (since
22 January 1997); Vice President Todor KAVALDZHIEV (since 22 January
1997)

head of government:  Chairman of the Council of Ministers (Prime
Minister) Ivan KOSTOV (since 19 May 1997); Deputy Prime Minister
Petur ZHOTEV (since 21 December 1999)

cabinet:  Council of Ministers elected by the National Assembly

elections:  president and vice president elected on the same ticket
by popular vote for five-year terms; election last held 27 October
and 3 November 1996 (next to be held NA 2001); chairman of the
Council of Ministers (prime minister) nominated by the president;
deputy prime ministers nominated by the prime minister

election results:  Petar STOYANOV elected president; percent of vote
- Petar STOYANOV 59.73%

Legislative branch: unicameral National Assembly or Narodno Sobranie
(240 seats; members elected by popular vote to serve four-year terms)

elections:  last held 17 June 2001 (next to be held NA June 2005)

election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
National Movement for Simeon II 120, UDF 51, BSP 48, DPS 21

Judicial branch: Supreme Administrative Court; Supreme Court of
Cassation; Constitutional Court (12 justices appointed or elected
for nine-year terms); Supreme Judicial Council (consists of the
chairmen of the two Supreme Courts, the Chief Prosecutor, and 22
other members; responsible for appointing the justices, prosecutors,
and investigating magistrates in the justice system; members of the
Supreme Judicial Council elected for five-year terms, 11 elected by
the National Assembly and 11 by bodies of the judiciary)

Political parties and leaders: Alliance for National Salvation or
ANS (coalition led mainly by Movement for Rights and Freedoms or
MRF) [Ahmed DOGAN]; Bulgarian Business Bloc or BBB [Georgi GANCHEV];
Bulgarian Socialist Party or BSP [Georgi PURVANOV, chairman];
Democratic Left or DL (bloc led by BSP, includes Ecoglasnost
Political Club and Bulgarian Agrarian National Union) [leader NA];
Euro-left [Aleksandur TOMOV]; Internal Macedonian Revolutionary
Organization or UMRO [Aleksander KARAKACHNOV]; Kingdom of Bulgaria
Federation [leader NA]; Movement for Rights and Freedom or DPS
[Ahmed DOGAN]; National Movement for Simeon II [Simeon II, former
king]; New Civic Party for Bulgaria [Bogomil BONEV]; People's Union
or PU (includes Bulgarian Agrarian People's Union and Democratic
Party) [Anastasiya MOZER]; St. George's Day [Lyuben DILOV]; Union of
Democratic Forces or UDF (an alliance of pro-democratic parties)
[Ivan KOSTOV]

Political pressure groups and leaders: agrarian movement; Bulgarian
Democratic Center; Confederation of Independent Trade Unions of
Bulgaria or CITUB; Democratic Alliance for the Republic or DAR; New
Union for Democracy or NUD; Podkrepa Labor Confederation; numerous
regional, ethnic, and national interest groups with various agendas

International organization participation: ACCT, BIS, BSEC, CCC, CE,
CEI, CERN, EAPC, EBRD, ECE, EU (applicant), FAO, G- 9, IAEA, IBRD,
ICAO, ICFTU, ICRM, IFC, IFRCS, IHO (pending member), ILO, IMF, IMO,
Inmarsat, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO, ITU, NAM (guest), NSG,
OAS (observer), OPCW, OSCE, PCA, PFP, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO,
UNMEE, UNMIBH, UNMIK, UNMOP, UPU, WCL, WEU (associate partner),
WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO, ZC

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Philip DIMITROV

chancery:  1621 22nd Street NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone:  [1] (202) 387-7969

FAX:  [1] (202) 234-7973

consulate(s):  New York

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Richard M. MILES

embassy:  1 Suborna Street, Sofia

mailing address:  American Embassy Sofia, Department of State,
Washington, DC 20521-5740

telephone:  [359] (2) 980-52-41

FAX:  [359] (2) 981-89-77

Flag description: three equal horizontal bands of white (top),
green, and red; the national emblem formerly on the hoist side of
the white stripe has been removed - it contained a rampant lion
within a wreath of wheat ears below a red five-pointed star and
above a ribbon bearing the dates 681 (first Bulgarian state
established) and 1944 (liberation from Nazi control)



Bulgaria    Economy

Economy - overview: Bulgaria, a former communist country struggling
to enter the European market economy, suffered a major economic
downturn in 1996 and 1997, with triple digit inflation and GDP
contraction of 10.6% and 6.9%. The current government - which took
office in May 1997 after pre-term parliamentary elections -
stabilized the economy and promoted growth by implementing a
currency board, practicing sound financial policies, invigorating
privatization, and pursuing structural reforms. Additionally, strong
assistance from international financial institutions - most notably
the IMF which approved a three-year Extended Fund Facility worth
approximately $900 million in September 1998 - played a critical
role in turning the economy around. After several years of tumult,
Bulgaria's economy has stabilized. Its better-than-expected economic
performance in 1999 - despite the impact of the Kosovo conflict, the
1998 Russian financial crisis, and structural reforms - and strong
growth in 2000 portends solid growth over the next few years; this
assumes continued fiscal restraint, additional structural reforms,
aid from abroad, and prosperous times in the EU economy.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $48 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 5% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $6,200 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  15%

industry:  29%

services:  56% (2000 est.)

Population below poverty line: 35% (2000 est.)

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:
3.4%

highest 10%:  22.5% (1995)

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 10.4% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 3.83 million (2000 est.)

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture 26%, industry 31%, services
43% (1998 est.)

Unemployment rate: 17.7% (2000 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $4.85 billion

expenditures:  $4.92 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
(2000 est.)

Industries: electricity, gas and water; food, beverages and tobacco;
machinery and equipment, base metals, chemical products, coke,
refined petroleum, nuclear fuel

Industrial production growth rate: 10.8% (2000 est.)

Electricity - production: 36.217 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  51.52%

hydro:  8.35%

nuclear:  40.12%

other:  0.01% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 33.182 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 2.2 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 1.7 billion kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: vegetables, fruits, tobacco, livestock,
wine, wheat, barley, sunflowers, sugar beets

Exports: $4.8 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Exports - commodities: clothing, footwear, iron and steel, machinery
and equipment, fuels

Exports - partners: Italy 14%, Turkey 10%, Germany 9%, Greece 8%,
Yugoslavia 8%, Belgium 6%, France 5%, US 4% (2000)

Imports: $5.9 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Imports - commodities: fuels, minerals, and raw materials; machinery
and equipment; metals and ores; chemicals and plastics; food,
textiles

Imports - partners: Russia 24%, Germany 14%, Italy 8%, Greece 5%,
France 5%, Romania 4%, Turkey 3%, US 3% (2000)

Debt - external: $10.4 billion (2000 est.)

Economic aid - recipient: $1 billion (1999 est.)

Currency: lev (BGL)

Currency code: BGL

Exchange rates: leva per US dollar - 2.0848 (January 2001), 2.1233
(2000), 1.8364 (1999), 1,760.36 (1998), 1,681.88 (1997), 177.89
(1996)

note:  on 5 July 1999, the lev was redenominated; the post-5 July
1999 lev is equal to 1,000 of the pre-5 July 1999 lev

Fiscal year: calendar year



Bulgaria    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 3.255 million (2000)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 596,000 (2000)

Telephone system: general assessment:  extensive but antiquated

domestic:  more than two-thirds of the lines are residential;
telephone service is available in most villages; a fairly modern
digital cable trunk line now connects switching centers in most of
the regions, the others are connected by digital microwave radio
relay

international:  direct dialing to 58 countries; satellite earth
stations - 1 Intersputnik (Atlantic Ocean region); 2 Intelsat
(Atlantic and Indian Ocean regions)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 24, FM 93, shortwave 2 (1998)

Radios: 4.51 million (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 96 (plus 1,030 repeaters) (1995)

Televisions: 3.31 million (1997)

Internet country code: .bg

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 26 (2000)

Internet users: 200,000 (2000)



Bulgaria    Transportation

Railways: total:  4,294 km

standard gauge:  4,049 km 1.435-m gauge (2,710 km electrified; 917
km double track)

narrow gauge:  245 km 0.760-m gauge (1998)

Highways: total:  36,724 km

paved:  33,786 km (including 314 km of expressways)

unpaved:  2,938 km (1999)

Waterways: 470 km (1987)

Pipelines: petroleum products 525 km; natural gas 1,500 km (1999)

Ports and harbors: Burgas, Lom, Nesebur, Ruse, Varna, Vidin

Merchant marine: total:  81 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
938,706 GRT/1,440,374 DWT

ships by type:  bulk 44, cargo 16, chemical tanker 4, container 2,
passenger/cargo 1, petroleum tanker 6, railcar carrier 2,
refrigerated cargo 1, roll on/roll off 3, short-sea passenger 1,
specialized tanker 1 (2000 est.)

Airports: 215 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  128

over 3,047 m:  1

2,438 to 3,047 m:  19

1,524 to 2,437 m:  15

914 to 1,523 m:  1

under 914 m:  92 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  87

1,524 to 2,437 m:  2

914 to 1,523 m:  10

under 914 m:  75 (2000 est.)

Heliports: 1 (2000 est.)



Bulgaria    Military

Military branches: Army, Navy, Air and Air Defense Forces, Civil
Defense Forces, Internal Troops

Military manpower - military age: 19 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  1,891,498 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
1,581,697 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  56,104
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $344 million (FY00)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 2.4% (FY00)



Bulgaria    Transnational Issues

Illicit drugs: major European transshipment point for Southwest
Asian heroin and, to a lesser degree, South American cocaine for the
European market; limited producer of precursor chemicals

======================================================================

@Burkina Faso




Burkina Faso    Introduction

Background: Independence from France came to Burkina Faso (formerly
Upper Volta) in 1960. Governmental instability during the 1970s and
1980s was followed by multiparty elections in the early 1990s.
Several hundred thousand farm workers migrate south every year to
Cote d'Ivoire and Ghana.



Burkina Faso    Geography

Location: Western Africa, north of Ghana

Geographic coordinates: 13 00 N, 2 00 W

Map references: Africa

Area: total:  274,200 sq km

land:  273,800 sq km

water:  400 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly larger than Colorado

Land boundaries: total:  3,192 km

border countries:  Benin 306 km, Cote d'Ivoire 584 km, Ghana 548 km,
Mali 1,000 km, Niger 628 km, Togo 126 km

Coastline: 0 km (landlocked)

Maritime claims: none (landlocked)

Climate: tropical; warm, dry winters; hot, wet summers

Terrain: mostly flat to dissected, undulating plains; hills in west
and southeast

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Mouhoun (Black Volta) River 200 m

highest point:  Tena Kourou 749 m

Natural resources: manganese, limestone, marble; small deposits of
gold, antimony, copper, nickel, bauxite, lead, phosphates, zinc,
silver

Land use: arable land:  13%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  22%

forests and woodland:  50%

other:  15% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 200 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: recurring droughts

Environment - current issues: recent droughts and desertification
severely affecting agricultural activities, population distribution,
and the economy; overgrazing; soil degradation; deforestation

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous
Wastes, Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands

signed, but not ratified:  Law of the Sea, Nuclear Test Ban

Geography - note: landlocked



Burkina Faso    People

Population: 12,272,289

note:  estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
life expectancy, higher infant mortality and death rates, lower
population and growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  47.5% (male 2,937,285; female 2,892,107)

15-64 years:  49.59% (male 2,903,153; female 3,183,121)

65 years and over:  2.91% (male 150,688; female 205,935) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 2.68% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 44.79 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 17.05 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: -0.97 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.03 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.02 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  0.91 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.73 male(s)/female

total population:  0.95 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 106.92 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  46.41 years

male:  45.86 years

female:  46.98 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 6.35 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 6.44% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 350,000 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: 43,000 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Burkinabe (singular and plural)

adjective:  Burkinabe

Ethnic groups: Mossi over 40%, Gurunsi, Senufo, Lobi, Bobo, Mande,
Fulani

Religions: indigenous beliefs 40%, Muslim 50%, Christian (mainly
Roman Catholic) 10%

Languages: French (official), native African languages belonging to
Sudanic family spoken by 90% of the population

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  19.2%

male:  29.5%

female:  9.2% (1995 est.)



Burkina Faso    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  none

conventional short form:  Burkina Faso

former:  Upper Volta, Republic of Upper Volta

Government type: parliamentary

Capital: Ouagadougou

Administrative divisions: 30 provinces; Bam, Bazega, Bougouriba,
Boulgou, Boulkiemde, Ganzourgou, Gnagna, Gourma, Houe, Kadiogo,
Kenedougou, Komoe, Kossi, Kouritenga, Mouhoun, Namentenga, Naouri,
Oubritenga, Oudalan, Passore, Poni, Sanguie, Sanmatenga, Seno,
Sissili, Soum, Sourou, Tapoa, Yatenga, Zoundweogo

note:  a new electoral code was approved by the National Assembly in
January 1997; the number of administrative provinces was increased
from 30 to 45 (Bale, Bam, Banwa, Bazega, Bougouriba, Boulgou,
Boulkiemde, Comoe, Ganzourgou, Gnagna, Gourma, Houet, Ioba, Kadiogo,
Kenedougou, Komandjari, Kompienga, Kossi, Koupelogo, Kouritenga,
Kourweogo, Leraba, Loroum, Mouhoun, Nahouri, Namentenga, Nayala,
Naumbiel, Oubritenga, Oudalan, Passore, Poni, Samentenga, Sanguie,
Seno, Sissili, Soum, Sourou, Tapoa, Tuy, Yagha, Yatenga, Ziro,
Zondomo, Zoundweogo), however, this change has not yet been
confirmed by the US Board on Geographic Names

Independence: 5 August 1960 (from France)

National holiday: Republic Day, 11 December (1958)

Constitution: 2 June 1991 approved by referendum; 11 June 1991
formally adopted

Legal system: based on French civil law system and customary law

Suffrage: universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Blaise COMPAORE (since
15 October 1987)

head of government:  Prime Minister Ernest Paramanga YONLI (since 6
November 2000)

cabinet:  Council of Ministers appointed by the president on the
recommendation of the prime minister

elections:  president elected by popular vote for a seven-year term;
the president may serve unlimited terms; election last held 15
November 1998 (next to be held NA 2005); prime minister appointed by
the president with the consent of the legislature

election results:  Blaise COMPAORE reelected president with 87.5%
percent of the vote, 56% of voter turnout

note:  President COMPAORE faces an increasingly well-coordinated
opposition; recent charges against a former member of his
Presidential Guard in the 1998 assassination of a newspaper editor
signify an attempt to defuse chronic areas of dissatisfaction

Legislative branch: bicameral; consists of a National Assembly or
Assemblee des Deputes Populaires (111 seats; members are elected by
popular vote to serve five-year terms) and the purely consultative
Chamber of Representations or Chambre des Representants (178 seats;
members are appointed to serve three-year terms)

elections:  National Assembly election last held 11 May 1997 (next
to be held NA 2002)

election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
CDP 101, PDP 6, RDA 2, ADF 2

Judicial branch: Supreme Court; Appeals Court

Political parties and leaders: African Democratic Rally-Alliance for
Democracy and Federation or RDA-ADF [Herman YAMEOGO]; Congress for
Democracy and Progress or CDP [Roch Marc-Christian KABORE]; Movement
for Tolerance and Progress or MTP [Noyabtigungu Congo KABORE]; Party
for African Independence or PAI [Philippe OUEDRAOGO]; Party for
Democracy and Progress or PDP [Joseph KI-ZERBO]; Union of Greens for
the Development of Burkina Faso or UVDB [Ram OVEDRAGO]

Political pressure groups and leaders: Burkinabe General
Confederation of Labor or CGTB; Burkinabe Movement for Human Rights
or HBDHP; Group of 14 February; National Confederation of Burkinabe
Workers or CNTB; National Organization of Free Unions or ONSL;
watchdog/political action groups throughout the country in both
organizations and communities

International organization participation: ACCT, ACP, AfDB, CCC, ECA,
ECOWAS, Entente, FAO, FZ, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, ICRM,
IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM,
ISO (subscriber), ITU, MONUC, NAM, OAU, OIC, OPCW, UN, UNCTAD,
UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WADB, WAEMU, WCL, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO,
WTrO

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Bruno ZIDOUEMBA

chancery:  2340 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone:  [1] (202) 332-5577

FAX:  [1] (202) 667-1882

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Jimmy J. KOLKER

embassy:  602 Avenue Raoul Follerau, Koulouba, Secteur 4, Ouagadougou

mailing address:  B. P. 35, Ouagadougou 01

telephone:  [226] 306723

FAX:  [226] 303890

Flag description: two equal horizontal bands of red (top) and green
with a yellow five-pointed star in the center; uses the popular
pan-African colors of Ethiopia



Burkina Faso    Economy

Economy - overview: One of the poorest countries in the world,
landlocked Burkina Faso has a high population density, few natural
resources, and a fragile soil. About 90% of the population is
engaged in (mainly subsistence) agriculture which is highly
vulnerable to variations in rainfall. Industry remains dominated by
unprofitable government-controlled corporations. Following the
African franc currency devaluation in January 1994 the government
updated its development program in conjunction with international
agencies, and exports and economic growth have increased.
Maintenance of its macroeconomic progress in 2001-02 depends on
continued low inflation, reduction in the trade deficit, and reforms
designed to encourage private investment.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $12 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 5% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $1,000 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  26%

industry:  27%

services:  47% (1998)

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:
2.2%

highest 10%:  39.5% (1994)

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 1.5% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 5 million (1999)

note:  a large part of the male labor force migrates annually to
neighboring countries for seasonal employment

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture 90% (2000 est.)

Unemployment rate: NA%

Budget: revenues:  $277 million

expenditures:  $492 million, including capital expenditures of $233
million (1995 est.)

Industries: cotton lint, beverages, agricultural processing, soap,
cigarettes, textiles, gold

Industrial production growth rate: 4.2% (1995)

Electricity - production: 285 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  71.93%

hydro:  28.07%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 265.1 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: peanuts, shea nuts, sesame, cotton, sorghum,
millet, corn, rice; livestock

Exports: $220 million (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Exports - commodities: cotton, animal products, gold

Exports - partners: Italy 13%, France 10%, Indonesia 8%, Thailand 7%
(1999)

Imports: $610 million (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Imports - commodities: machinery, food products, petroleum

Imports - partners: Cote d'Ivoire 30%, France 28%, Spain 3%, Benelux
3% (1999)

Debt - external: $1.3 billion (1997)

Economic aid - recipient: $484.1 million (1995)

Currency: Communaute Financiere Africaine franc (XOF); note -
responsible authority is the Central Bank of the West African States

Currency code: XOF

Exchange rates: Communaute Financiere Africaine francs (XOF) per US
dollar - 699.21 (January 2001), 711.98 (2000), 615.70 (1999), 589.95
(1998), 583.67 (1997), 511.55 (1996); note - from 1 January 1999,
the XOF is pegged to the euro at a rate of 655.957 XOF per euro

Fiscal year: calendar year



Burkina Faso    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 36,000 (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 1,503 (1997)

Telephone system: general assessment:  all services only fair

domestic:  microwave radio relay, open wire, and radiotelephone
communication stations

international:  satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 2, FM 17, shortwave 1 (1998)

Radios: 370,000 (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 1 (1997)

Televisions: 100,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .bf

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 1 (2000)

Internet users: 4,000 (2000)



Burkina Faso    Transportation

Railways: total:  622 km (517 km from Ouagadougou to the Cote
d'Ivoire border and 105 km from Ouagadougou to Kaya)

narrow gauge:  622 km 1.000-m gauge (1995 est.)

Highways: total:  12,506 km

paved:  2,001 km

unpaved:  10,505 km (1996)

Waterways: none

Ports and harbors: none

Airports: 33 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  2

over 3,047 m:  1

2,438 to 3,047 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  31

1,524 to 2,437 m:  3

914 to 1,523 m:  12

under 914 m:  16 (2000 est.)



Burkina Faso    Military

Military branches: Army, Air Force, National Gendarmerie, National
Police, People's Militia

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  2,592,974 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
1,329,995 (2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $66 million (FY96)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 2% (FY96)



Burkina Faso    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

======================================================================

@Burma




Burma    Introduction

Background: Despite multiparty elections in 1990 that resulted in
the main opposition party winning a decisive victory, the military
junta ruling the country refused to hand over power. Key opposition
leader and Nobel Peace Prize recipient AUNG San Suu Kyi, under house
arrest from 1989 to 1995, was again placed under house detention in
September 2000; her supporters are routinely harassed or jailed.



Burma    Geography

Location: Southeastern Asia, bordering the Andaman Sea and the Bay
of Bengal, between Bangladesh and Thailand

Geographic coordinates: 22 00 N, 98 00 E

Map references: Southeast Asia

Area: total:  678,500 sq km

land:  657,740 sq km

water:  20,760 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly smaller than Texas

Land boundaries: total:  5,876 km

border countries:  Bangladesh 193 km, China 2,185 km, India 1,463
km, Laos 235 km, Thailand 1,800 km

Coastline: 1,930 km

Maritime claims: contiguous zone:  24 NM

continental shelf:  200 NM or to the edge of the continental margin

exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: tropical monsoon; cloudy, rainy, hot, humid summers
(southwest monsoon, June to September); less cloudy, scant rainfall,
mild temperatures, lower humidity during winter (northeast monsoon,
December to April)

Terrain: central lowlands ringed by steep, rugged highlands

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Andaman Sea 0 m

highest point:  Hkakabo Razi 5,881 m

Natural resources: petroleum, timber, tin, antimony, zinc, copper,
tungsten, lead, coal, some marble, limestone, precious stones,
natural gas, hydropower

Land use: arable land:  15%

permanent crops:  1%

permanent pastures:  1%

forests and woodland:  49%

other:  34% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 10,680 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: destructive earthquakes and cyclones; flooding and
landslides common during rainy season (June to September); periodic
droughts

Environment - current issues: deforestation; industrial pollution of
air, soil, and water; inadequate sanitation and water treatment
contribute to disease

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species, Law of the Sea,
Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical
Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94

signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Geography - note: strategic location near major Indian Ocean
shipping lanes



Burma    People

Population: 41,994,678

note:  estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
life expectancy, higher infant mortality and death rates, lower
population and growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  29.14% (male 6,245,798; female 5,992,074)

15-64 years:  66.08% (male 13,779,571; female 13,970,707)

65 years and over:  4.78% (male 895,554; female 1,110,974) (2001
est.)

Population growth rate: 0.6% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 20.13 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 12.3 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: -1.84 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.06 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  0.99 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.81 male(s)/female

total population:  0.99 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 73.71 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  55.16 years

male:  53.73 years

female:  56.68 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 2.3 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 1.99% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 530,000 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: 48,000 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Burmese (singular and plural)

adjective:  Burmese

Ethnic groups: Burman 68%, Shan 9%, Karen 7%, Rakhine 4%, Chinese
3%, Mon 2%, Indian 2%, other 5%

Religions: Buddhist 89%, Christian 4% (Baptist 3%, Roman Catholic
1%), Muslim 4%, animist 1%, other 2%

Languages: Burmese, minority ethnic groups have their own languages

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  83.1%

male:  88.7%

female:  77.7% (1995 est.)

note:  these are official statistics; estimates of functional
literacy are likely closer to 30% (1999 est.)



Burma    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Union of Burma

conventional short form:  Burma

local long form:  Pyidaungzu Myanma Naingngandaw (translated by the
US Government as Union of Myanma and by the Burmese as Union of
Myanmar)

local short form:  Myanma Naingngandaw

former:  Socialist Republic of the Union of Burma

Government type: military regime

Capital: Rangoon (regime refers to the capital as Yangon)

Administrative divisions: 7 divisions* (yin-mya, singular - yin) and
7 states (pyine-mya, singular - pyine); Chin State, Ayeyarwady*,
Bago*, Kachin State, Kayin State, Kayah State, Magway*, Mandalay*,
Mon State, Rakhine State, Sagaing*, Shan State, Tanintharyi*, Yangon*

Independence: 4 January 1948 (from UK)

National holiday: Independence Day, 4 January (1948)

Constitution: 3 January 1974 (suspended since 18 September 1988);
national convention started on 9 January 1993 to draft a new
constitution; progress has since been stalled

Legal system: has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  Prime Minister and Chairman of
the State Peace and Development Council Gen. THAN SHWE (since 23
April 1992); note - the prime minister is both the chief of state
and head of government

head of government:  Prime Minister and Chairman of the State Peace
and Development Council Gen. THAN SHWE (since 23 April 1992); note -
the prime minister is both the chief of state and head of government

cabinet:  State Peace and Development Council (SPDC); military
junta, so named 15 November 1997, which initially assumed power 18
September 1988 under the name State Law and Order Restoration
Council; the SPDC oversees the cabinet

elections:  none; the prime minister assumed power upon resignation
of the former prime minister

Legislative branch: unicameral People's Assembly or Pyithu Hluttaw
(485 seats; members elected by popular vote to serve four-year terms)

elections:  last held 27 May 1990, but Assembly never convened

election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
NLD 392, SNLD 23, NUP 10, other 60

Judicial branch: remnants of the British-era legal system are in
place, but there is no guarantee of a fair public trial; the
judiciary is not independent of the executive

Political parties and leaders: National League for Democracy or NLD
[AUNG SHWE, chairman, AUNG SAN SUU KYI, general secretary]; National
Unity Party or NUP (proregime) [THA KYAW]; Shan Nationalities League
for Democracy or SNLD [U KHUN TUN OO]; Union Solidarity and
Development Association or USDA (proregime, a social and political
organization) [THAN AUNG, general secretary]; and other smaller
parties

Political pressure groups and leaders: All Burma Student Democratic
Front or ABSDF; Kachin Independence Army or KIA; Karen National
Union or KNU; National Coalition Government of the Union of Burma or
NCGUB [Dr. SEIN WIN] consists of individuals legitimately elected to
the People's Assembly but not recognized by the military regime; the
group fled to a border area and joined with insurgents in December
1990 to form a parallel government; several Shan factions; United Wa
State Army or UWSA

International organization participation: ARF, AsDB, ASEAN, CCC, CP,
ESCAP, FAO, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS,
ILO, IMF, IMO, Intelsat (nonsignatory user), Interpol, IOC, ITU,
NAM, OPCW, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:
Ambassador-designate U LINN MYAING

chancery:  2300 S Street NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone:  [1] (202) 332-9044

FAX:  [1] (202) 332-9046

consulate(s) general:  New York

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Permanent
Charge d'Affaires Priscilla A. CLAPP

embassy:  581 Merchant Street, Rangoon (GPO 521)

mailing address:  Box B, APO AP 96546

telephone:  [95] (1) 282055, 282182

FAX:  [95] (1) 280409

Flag description: red with a blue rectangle in the upper hoist-side
corner bearing, all in white, 14 five-pointed stars encircling a
cogwheel containing a stalk of rice; the 14 stars represent the 14
administrative divisions



Burma    Economy

Economy - overview: Burma has a mixed economy with private activity
dominant in agriculture, light industry, and transport, and with
substantial state-controlled activity, mainly in energy, heavy
industry, and the rice trade. Government policy in the 1990s has
aimed at revitalizing the economy after three decades of tight
central planning. Private activity markedly increased in the early
to mid-1990s, but began to decline in the past several years due to
frustrations with the unfriendly business environment and political
pressure from western nations. Published estimates of Burma's
foreign trade are greatly understated because of the volume of
black-market, illicit, and border trade. A major ongoing problem is
the failure to achieve monetary and fiscal stability. Burma remains
a poor Asian country and living standards for the majority have not
improved over the past decade. Short-term growth will continue to be
restrained because of poor government planning and minimal foreign
investment.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $63.7 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 4.9% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $1,500 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  42%

industry:  17%

services:  41% (2000 est.)

Population below poverty line: 23% (1997 est.)

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:
2.8%

highest 10%:  32.4% (1998)

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 18% (1999)

Labor force: 19.7 million (FY98/99 est.)

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture 65%, industry 10%, services
25% (1999 est.)

Unemployment rate: 7.1% (official FY97/98 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $7.9 billion

expenditures:  $12.2 billion, including capital expenditures of $5.7
billion (FY96/97)

Industries: agricultural processing; textiles and footwear; wood and
wood products; copper, tin, tungsten, iron; construction materials;
pharmaceuticals; fertilizer

Industrial production growth rate: NA%

Electricity - production: 4.813 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  68.56%

hydro:  31.44%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 4.476 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: paddy rice, corn, oilseed, sugarcane,
pulses; hardwood

Exports: $1.3 billion (f.o.b., 1999)

Exports - commodities: apparel 36%, foodstuffs 22%, wood products
21%, precious stones 5% (1999)

Exports - partners: India 13%, Singapore 11%, China 11%, US 8% (1999
est.)

note:  official trade statistics do not include trade in illicit
goods - such as narcotics, teak, and gems - or the largely
unrecorded border trade with China and Thailand

Imports: $2.5 billion (f.o.b., 1999)

Imports - commodities: machinery, transport equipment, construction
materials, food products

Imports - partners: Singapore 28%, Thailand 12%, China 10%, Japan
10%, South Korea 9% (1999 est.)

Debt - external: $6 billion (FY99/00 est.)

Economic aid - recipient: $99 million (FY98/99)

Currency: kyat (MMK)

Currency code: MMK

Exchange rates: kyats per US dollar - official rate - 6.5972
(January 2001), 6.5167 (2000), 6.2858 (1999), 6.3432 (1998), 6.2418
(1997), 5.9176 (1996); kyats per US dollar - black market exchange
rate - 435 (yearend 2000)

Fiscal year: 1 April - 31 March



Burma    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 250,000 (2000)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 8,492 (1997)

Telephone system: general assessment:  meets minimum requirements
for local and intercity service for business and government;
international service is good

domestic:  NA

international:  satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (Indian Ocean)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 2, FM 3, shortwave 3 (1998)

Radios: 4.2 million (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 2 (1998)

Televisions: 320,000 (2000)

Internet country code: .mm

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 1

note:  as of September 2000, Internet connections were legal only
for the government, tourist offices, and a few large businesses
(2000)

Internet users: 500 (2000)



Burma    Transportation

Railways: total:  3,991 km

narrow gauge:  3,991 km 1.000-m gauge

Highways: total:  28,200 km

paved:  3,440 km

unpaved:  24,760 km (1996)

Waterways: 12,800 km

note:  3,200 km navigable by large commercial vessels

Pipelines: crude oil 1,343 km; natural gas 330 km

Ports and harbors: Bassein, Bhamo, Chauk, Mandalay, Moulmein,
Myitkyina, Rangoon, Akyab (Sittwe), Tavoy

Merchant marine: total:  37 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
411,181 GRT/632,769 DWT

ships by type:  bulk 11, cargo 20, container 1, passenger/cargo 3,
petroleum tanker 2

note:  includes some foreign-owned ships registered here as a flag
of convenience: Japan 2 (2000 est.)

Airports: 80 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  9

over 3,047 m:  3

2,438 to 3,047 m:  1

1,524 to 2,437 m:  4

914 to 1,523 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  71

over 3,047 m:  2

1,524 to 2,437 m:  15

914 to 1,523 m:  22

under 914 m:  32 (2000 est.)

Heliports: 1 (2000 est.)



Burma    Military

Military branches: Army, Navy, Air Force

Military manpower - military age: 18 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  12,050,964

females age 15-49:  12,070,017

note:  both sexes liable for military service (2001 est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
6,425,514

females age 15-49:  6,419,677 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  470,667

females:  479,691 (2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $39 million (FY97/98)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 2.1% (FY97/98)



Burma    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: sporadic border hostilities with Thailand
over border alignment and ethnic Shan rebels operating in
cross-border region

Illicit drugs: world's second largest producer of illicit opium,
after Afghanistan (potential production in 1999 - 1,090 metric tons,
down 38% due to drought; cultivation in 1999 - 89,500 hectares, a
31% decline from 1998); surrender of drug warlord KHUN SA's Mong Tai
Army in January 1996 was hailed by Rangoon as a major
counternarcotics success, but lack of government will and ability to
take on major narcotrafficking groups and lack of serious commitment
against money laundering continues to hinder the overall antidrug
effort; becoming a major source of methamphetamine for regional
consumption

======================================================================

@Burundi




Burundi    Introduction

Background: Between 1993 and 2000, wide-spread, often intense ethnic
violence between Hutu and Tutsi factions in Burundi created hundreds
of thousands of refugees and left tens of thousands dead. Although
some refugees have returned from neighboring countries, continued
ethnic strife has forced many others to flee. Burundian troops,
seeking to secure their borders, have intervened in the conflict in
the Democratic Republic of the Congo.



Burundi    Geography

Location: Central Africa, east of Democratic Republic of the Congo

Geographic coordinates: 3 30 S, 30 00 E

Map references: Africa

Area: total:  27,830 sq km

land:  25,650 sq km

water:  2,180 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly smaller than Maryland

Land boundaries: total:  974 km

border countries:  Democratic Republic of the Congo 233 km, Rwanda
290 km, Tanzania 451 km

Coastline: 0 km (landlocked)

Maritime claims: none (landlocked)

Climate: equatorial; high plateau with considerable altitude
variation (772 m to 2,670 m above sea level); average annual
temperature varies with altitude from 23 to 17 degrees centigrade
but is generally moderate as the average altitude is about 1,700 m;
average annual rainfall is about 150 cm; wet seasons from February
to May and September to November, and dry seasons from June to
August and December to January

Terrain: hilly and mountainous, dropping to a plateau in east, some
plains

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Lake Tanganyika 772 m

highest point:  Mount Heha 2,670 m

Natural resources: nickel, uranium, rare earth oxides, peat, cobalt,
copper, platinum (not yet exploited), vanadium, arable land,
hydropower

Land use: arable land:  44%

permanent crops:  9%

permanent pastures:  36%

forests and woodland:  3%

other:  8% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 140 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: flooding, landslides, drought

Environment - current issues: soil erosion as a result of
overgrazing and the expansion of agriculture into marginal lands;
deforestation (little forested land remains because of uncontrolled
cutting of trees for fuel); habitat loss threatens wildlife
populations

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous
Wastes, Ozone Layer Protection

signed, but not ratified:  Law of the Sea, Nuclear Test Ban

Geography - note: landlocked; straddles crest of the Nile-Congo
watershed



Burundi    People

Population: 6,223,897

note:  estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
life expectancy, higher infant mortality and death rates, lower
population and growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  46.82% (male 1,472,618; female 1,441,548)

15-64 years:  50.37% (male 1,541,131; female 1,593,743)

65 years and over:  2.81% (male 71,984; female 102,873) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 2.38% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 40.13 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 16.36 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.03 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.02 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  0.97 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.7 male(s)/female

total population:  0.98 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 70.74 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  46.06 years

male:  45.15 years

female:  46.99 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 6.16 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 11.32% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 360,000 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: 39,000 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Burundian(s)

adjective:  Burundi

Ethnic groups: Hutu (Bantu) 85%, Tutsi (Hamitic) 14%, Twa (Pygmy)
1%, Europeans 3,000, South Asians 2,000

Religions: Christian 67% (Roman Catholic 62%, Protestant 5%),
indigenous beliefs 23%, Muslim 10%

Languages: Kirundi (official), French (official), Swahili (along
Lake Tanganyika and in the Bujumbura area)

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  35.3%

male:  49.3%

female:  22.5% (1995 est.)



Burundi    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Republic of Burundi

conventional short form:  Burundi

local long form:  Republika y'u Burundi

local short form:  Burundi

former:  Urundi

Government type: republic

Capital: Bujumbura

Administrative divisions: 16 provinces; Bubanza, Bujumbura, Bururi,
Cankuzo, Cibitoke, Gitega, Karuzi, Kayanza, Kirundo, Makamba,
Muramvya, Muyinga, Mwaro, Ngozi, Rutana, Ruyigi

Independence: 1 July 1962 (from UN trusteeship under Belgian
administration)

National holiday: Independence Day, 1 July (1962)

Constitution: 13 March 1992; provided for establishment of a plural
political system; supplanted on 6 June 1998 by a Transitional
Constitution which enlarged the National Assembly and created two
vice presidents

Legal system: based on German and Belgian civil codes and customary
law; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Suffrage: NA years of age; universal adult

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Pierre BUYOYA (interim
president since 27 September 1996, officially sworn in 11 June
1998), First Vice President Frederic BAMVUGINYUMVIRA (since NA June
1998), Second Vice President Mathias SINAMENYE (since NA June 1998);
note - the president is both chief of state and head of government

head of government:  President Pierre BUYOYA (interim president
since 27 September 1996, officially sworn in 11 June 1998), First
Vice President Frederic BAMVUGINYUMVIRA (since NA June 1998), Second
Vice President Mathias SINAMENYE (since NA June 1998); note - the
president is both chief of state and head of government

cabinet:  Council of Ministers appointed by president

elections:  NA; current president assumed power following a coup on
25 July 1996 in which former President NTIBANTUNGANYA was overthrown

Legislative branch: unicameral National Assembly or Assemblee
Nationale (121 seats; note - new Transitional Constitution expanded
the number of seats from 81 to 121 in 1998; members are elected by
popular vote on a proportional basis to serve five-year terms)

elections:  last held 29 June 1993 (next was scheduled to be held in
1998, but suspended by presidential decree in 1996)

election results:  percent of vote by party - FRODEBU 71.04%, UPRONA
21.4%, other 7.56%; seats by party - FRODEBU 65, UPRONA 16, various
other parties 40

Judicial branch: Supreme Court or Cour Supreme; Constitutional
Court; Courts of Appeal (there are three in separate locations);
Tribunals of First Instance (17 at the province level and 123 small
local tribunals)

Political parties and leaders: Two national, mainstream governing
parties are: Unity for National Progress or UPRONA [Luc RUKINGAMA,
president]; Burundi Democratic Front or FRODEBU [Jean MINANI,
president]

note:  A multiparty system was introduced after 1998, included are:
Burundi African Alliance for the Salvation or ABASA [Terrence
NSANZE]; Rally for Democracy and Economic and Social Development or
RADDES [Joseph NZENZIMANA]; Party for National Redress or PARENA
[Jean-Baptiste BAGAZA]; People's Reconciliation Party or PRP
[Mathias HITIMANA]

Political pressure groups and leaders: Loosely organized Tutsi
militias, often affiliated with Tutsi extremist parties

International organization participation: ACCT, ACP, AfDB, CCC,
CEEAC, CEPGL, ECA, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC,
IFRCS, ILO, IMF, Intelsat (nonsignatory user), Interpol, IOC, ITU,
NAM, OAU, OPCW, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WHO, WIPO, WMO,
WToO, WTrO

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Thomas NDIKUMANA

chancery:  Suite 212, 2233 Wisconsin Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20007

telephone:  [1] (202) 342-2574

FAX:  [1] (202) 342-2578

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Mary Carlin YATES

embassy:  Avenue des Etats-Unis, Bujumbura

mailing address:  B. P. 1720, Bujumbura

telephone:  [257] 223454

FAX:  [257] 222926

Flag description: divided by a white diagonal cross into red panels
(top and bottom) and green panels (hoist side and outer side) with a
white disk superimposed at the center bearing three red six-pointed
stars outlined in green arranged in a triangular design (one star
above, two stars below)



Burundi    Economy

Economy - overview: Burundi is a landlocked, resource-poor country
with an underdeveloped manufacturing sector. The economy is
predominantly agricultural with roughly 90% of the population
dependent on subsistence agriculture. Its economic health depends on
the coffee crop, which accounts for 80% of foreign exchange
earnings. The ability to pay for imports therefore rests largely on
the vagaries of the climate and the international coffee market.
Since October 1993 the nation has suffered from massive ethnic-based
violence which has resulted in the death of perhaps 250,000 persons
and the displacement of about 800,000 others. Only one in four
children go to school, and one in nine adults has HIV/AIDS. Foods,
medicines, and electricity remain in short supply.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $4.4 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 1.8% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $720 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  50%

industry:  18%

services:  32% (1999 est.)

Population below poverty line: 36.2% (1990 est.)

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:
3.4%

highest 10%:  26.6% (1992)

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 22% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 1.9 million

Labor force - by occupation: NA

Unemployment rate: NA%

Budget: revenues:  $125 million

expenditures:  $176 million, including capital expenditures of $NA
(2000 est.)

Industries: light consumer goods such as blankets, shoes, soap;
assembly of imported components; public works construction; food
processing

Industrial production growth rate: 6.3% (1999 est.)

Electricity - production: 141 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  0.71%

hydro:  99.29%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 160.1 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 29 million kWh

note:  supplied by the Democratic Republic of the Congo (1999)

Agriculture - products: coffee, cotton, tea, corn, sorghum, sweet
potatoes, bananas, manioc (tapioca); beef, milk, hides

Exports: $32 million (f.o.b., 2000)

Exports - commodities: coffee, tea, sugar, cotton, hides

Exports - partners: Germany 17%, Belgium 14%, US 8%, France 6%,
Switzerland 4% (1999)

Imports: $110 million (f.o.b., 2000)

Imports - commodities: capital goods, petroleum products, foodstuffs

Imports - partners: Belgium 20%, Zambia 11%, Kenya 8%, South Africa
5%, France 4% (1999)

Debt - external: $1.12 billion (1999 est.)

Economic aid - recipient: $1.344 billion (1999 est.)

Currency: Burundi franc (BIF)

Currency code: BIF

Exchange rates: Burundi francs per US dollar - 782.36 (January
2001), 720.67 (2000), 563.56 (1999), 477.77 (1998), 352.35 (1997),
302.75 (1996)

Fiscal year: calendar year



Burundi    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 16,000 (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 619 (1997)

Telephone system: general assessment:  primitive system

domestic:  sparse system of open wire, radiotelephone
communications, and low-capacity microwave radio relay

international:  satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (Indian Ocean)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 2, FM 2, shortwave 0 (1998)

Radios: 440,000 (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 1 (1999)

Televisions: 25,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .bi

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 1 (2000)

Internet users: 2,000 (2000)



Burundi    Transportation

Railways: 0 km

Highways: total:  14,480 km

paved:  1,028 km

unpaved:  13,452 km (1996)

Waterways: Lake Tanganyika

Ports and harbors: Bujumbura

Airports: 4 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  1

over 3,047 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  3

914 to 1,523 m:  3 (2000 est.)



Burundi    Military

Military branches: Army (includes naval and air units), paramilitary
Gendarmerie

Military manpower - military age: 16 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  1,394,273 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
728,326 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  79,360
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $57 million (FY97)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 6.1% (FY97)



Burundi    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

======================================================================

@Cambodia




Cambodia    Introduction

Background: Following a five-year struggle, communist Khmer Rouge
forces captured Phnom Penh in 1975 and ordered the evacuation of all
cities and towns; over 1 million displaced people died from
execution or enforced hardships. A 1978 Vietnamese invasion drove
the Khmer Rouge into the countryside and touched off 13 years of
fighting. UN-sponsored elections in 1993 helped restore some
semblance of normalcy, as did the rapid diminishment of the Khmer
Rouge in the mid-1990s. A coalition government, formed after
national elections in 1998, brought renewed political stability and
the surrender of remaining Khmer Rouge forces.



Cambodia    Geography

Location: Southeastern Asia, bordering the Gulf of Thailand, between
Thailand, Vietnam, and Laos

Geographic coordinates: 13 00 N, 105 00 E

Map references: Southeast Asia

Area: total:  181,040 sq km

land:  176,520 sq km

water:  4,520 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly smaller than Oklahoma

Land boundaries: total:  2,572 km

border countries:  Laos 541 km, Thailand 803 km, Vietnam 1,228 km

Coastline: 443 km

Maritime claims: contiguous zone:  24 NM

continental shelf:  200 NM

exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: tropical; rainy, monsoon season (May to November); dry
season (December to April); little seasonal temperature variation

Terrain: mostly low, flat plains; mountains in southwest and north

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Gulf of Thailand 0 m

highest point:  Phnum Aoral 1,810 m

Natural resources: timber, gemstones, some iron ore, manganese,
phosphates, hydropower potential

Land use: arable land:  13%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  11%

forests and woodland:  66%

other:  10% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 920 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: monsoonal rains (June to November); flooding;
occasional droughts

Environment - current issues: illegal logging activities throughout
the country and strip mining for gems in the western region along
the border with Thailand have resulted in habitat loss and declining
biodiversity (in particular, destruction of mangrove swamps
threatens natural fisheries); soil erosion; in rural areas, a
majority of the population does not have access to potable water;
toxic waste delivery from Taiwan sparked unrest in Kampong Saom
(Sihanoukville) in December 1998

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species, Marine Life
Conservation, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands

signed, but not ratified:  Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping

Geography - note: a land of paddies and forests dominated by the
Mekong River and Tonle Sap



Cambodia    People

Population: 12,491,501

note:  estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
life expectancy, higher infant mortality and death rates, lower
population and growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  41.25% (male 2,626,821; female 2,526,510)

15-64 years:  55.28% (male 3,253,611; female 3,651,129)

65 years and over:  3.47% (male 177,577; female 255,853) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 2.25% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 33.16 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 10.65 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  0.89 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.69 male(s)/female

total population:  0.94 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 65.41 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  56.82 years

male:  54.62 years

female:  59.12 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 4.74 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 4.04% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 220,000 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: 14,000 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Cambodian(s)

adjective:  Cambodian

Ethnic groups: Khmer 90%, Vietnamese 5%, Chinese 1%, other 4%

Religions: Theravada Buddhist 95%, other 5%

Languages: Khmer (official) 95%, French, English

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  35%

male:  48%

female:  22% (1990 est.)



Cambodia    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Kingdom of Cambodia

conventional short form:  Cambodia

local long form:  Preahreacheanachakr Kampuchea

local short form:  Kampuchea

former:  Khmer Republic, Kampuchea Republic

Government type: multiparty liberal democracy under a constitutional
monarchy established in September 1993

Capital: Phnom Penh

Administrative divisions: 20 provinces (khett, singular and plural)
and 4 municipalities* (krong, singular and plural); Banteay Mean
Cheay, Batdambang, Kampong Cham, Kampong Chhnang, Kampong Spoe,
Kampong Thum, Kampot, Kandal, Kaoh Kong, Keb*, Kracheh, Mondol Kiri,
Otdar Mean Cheay, Pailin*, Phnum Penh*, Pouthisat, Preah Seihanu*
(Sihanoukville), Preah Vihear, Prey Veng, Rotanah Kiri, Siem Reab,
Stoeng Treng, Svay Rieng, Takev

Independence: 9 November 1953 (from France)

National holiday: Independence Day, 9 November (1953)

Constitution: promulgated 21 September 1993

Legal system: primarily a civil law mixture of French-influenced
codes from the United Nations Transitional Authority in Cambodia
(UNTAC) period, royal decrees, and acts of the legislature, with
influences of customary law and remnants of communist legal theory;
increasing influence of common law in recent years

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  King Norodom SIHANOUK (reinstated
24 September 1993)

head of government:  Prime Minister HUN SEN (since 30 November 1998)

cabinet:  Council of Ministers appointed by the monarch

elections:  none; the monarch is chosen by a Royal Throne Council;
prime minister appointed by the monarch after a vote of confidence
by the National Assembly

Legislative branch: bicameral consists of the National Assembly (122
seats; members elected by popular vote to serve five-year terms) and
the Senate (61 seats; two members appointed by the monarch, two
elected by the National Assembly, and 57 elected by "functional
constituencies"; members serve five-year terms

elections:  National Assembly - last held 26 July 1998 (next to be
held NA 2003); Senate - last held 2 March 1999 (next to be held NA
2004)

election results:  National Assembly - percent of vote by party -
CPP 41%, FUNCINPEC 32%, SRP 14%, other 13%; seats by party - CPP 64,
FUNCINPEC 43, SRP 15; Senate - seats by party - CPP 31, FUNCINPEC
21, SRP 7

Judicial branch: Supreme Council of the Magistracy (provided for in
the constitution and formed in December 1997); Supreme Court (and
lower courts) exercises judicial authority

Political parties and leaders: Buddhist Liberal Party or BLP [IENG
MOULY]; Cambodian Pracheachon Party or Cambodian People's Party or
CPP [CHEA SIM]; Khmer Citizen Party or KCP [NGUON SOEUR]; National
United Front for an Independent, Neutral, Peaceful, and Cooperative
Cambodia or FUNCINPEC [Prince NORODOM RANARIDDH]; Sam Rangsi Party
or SRP (formerly Khmer Nation Party or KNP) [SAM RANGSI]

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: ACCT, ARF, AsDB, ASEAN,
CP, ESCAP, FAO, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS,
ILO, IMF, IMO, Intelsat (nonsignatory user), Interpol, IOC, IOM
(observer), ISO (subscriber), ITU, NAM, OPCW, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO,
UNIDO, UPU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO (observer)

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Roland ENG

chancery:  4500 16th Street NW, Washington, DC 20011

telephone:  [1] (202) 726-7742

FAX:  [1] (202) 726-8381

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Kent M. WIEDEMANN

embassy:  16-18 Mongkol lem St. 228, Phnom Penh

mailing address:  Box P, APO AP 96546

telephone:  [855] (23) 216-436

FAX:  [855] (23) 216-437

Flag description: three horizontal bands of blue (top), red (double
width), and blue with a white three-towered temple representing
Angkor Wat outlined in black in the center of the red band



Cambodia    Economy

Economy - overview: Cambodia's economy slowed dramatically in
1997-98 due to the regional economic crisis, civil violence, and
political infighting. Foreign investment and tourism fell off. In
1999, the first full year of peace in 30 years, progress was made on
economic reforms and growth resumed at 4%. GDP growth for 2000 had
been projected to reach 5.5%, but the worst flooding in 70 years
severely damaged agricultural crops, and high oil prices hurt
industrial production, and growth for the year is estimated at only
4%. Tourism is Cambodia's fastest growing industry, with arrivals up
34% in 2000. The long-term development of the economy after decades
of war remains a daunting challenge. The population lacks education
and productive skills, particularly in the poverty-ridden
countryside, which suffers from an almost total lack of basic
infrastructure. Fear of renewed political instability and corruption
within the government discourage foreign investment and delay
foreign aid. On the brighter side, the government is addressing
these issues with assistance from bilateral and multilateral donors.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $16.1 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 4% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $1,300 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  43%

industry:  20%

services:  37% (1998 est.)

Population below poverty line: 36% (1997 est.)

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:
2.9%

highest 10%:  33.8% (1997)

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 1.6% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 6 million (1998 est.)

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture 80% (1999 est.)

Unemployment rate: 2.8% (1999 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $363 million

expenditures:  $532 million, including capital expenditures of $225
million (2000 est.)

Industries: garments, tourism, rice milling, fishing, wood and wood
products, rubber, cement, gem mining, textiles

Industrial production growth rate: NA%

Electricity - production: 147 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  59.18%

hydro:  40.82%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 136.7 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: rice, rubber, corn, vegetables

Exports: $942 million (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Exports - commodities: timber, garments, rubber, rice, fish

Exports - partners: Vietnam 18%, Thailand 15%, US 10%, Singapore 8%,
China 5% (1997)

Imports: $1.3 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Imports - commodities: cigarettes, gold, construction materials,
petroleum products, machinery, motor vehicles

Imports - partners: Thailand 16%, Vietnam 9%, Japan 7%, Hong Kong
5%, China 5% (1997)

Debt - external: $829 million (1999 est.)

Economic aid - recipient: $548 million pledged in grants and
concessional loans for 2001 by international donors

Currency: riel (KHR)

Currency code: KHR

Exchange rates: riels per US dollar - 3,909.0 (January 2001),
3,840.8 (2000), 3,807.8 (1999), 3,744.4 (1998), 2,946.3 (1997),
2,624.1 (1996)

Fiscal year: calendar year



Cambodia    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 21,800 (mid-1998)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 80,000 (2000)

Telephone system: general assessment:  adequate landline and/or
cellular service in Phnom Penh and other provincial cities; rural
areas have little telephone service

domestic:  NA

international:  adequate but expensive landline and cellular service
available to all countries from Phnom Penh and major provincial
cities; satellite earth station - 1 Intersputnik (Indian Ocean
region)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 7, FM 3, shortwave 3 (1999)

Radios: 1.34 million (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 5 (1999)

Televisions: 94,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .kh

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 2 (2000)

Internet users: NA



Cambodia    Transportation

Railways: total:  603 km

narrow gauge:  603 km 1.000-m gauge

Highways: total:  35,769 km

paved:  4,165 km

unpaved:  31,604 km (1997)

Waterways: 3,700 km

note:  navigable all year to craft drawing 0.6 m or less; 282 km
navigable to craft drawing as much as 1.8 m

Ports and harbors: Kampong Saom (Sihanoukville), Kampot, Krong Kaoh
Kong, Phnom Penh

Merchant marine: total:  295 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
1,305,932 GRT/1,853,487 DWT

ships by type:  bulk 22, cargo 237, chemical tanker 1, combination
bulk 3, container 8, liquefied gas 1, livestock carrier 2,
multi-functional large-load carrier 1, passenger/cargo 1, petroleum
tanker 7, refrigerated cargo 6, roll on/roll off 5, short-sea
passenger 1

note:  includes some foreign-owned ships registered here as a flag
of convenience: Cyprus 3, South Korea 1, Malta 1, Panama 1, Russia
1, Singapore 1 (2000 est.)

Airports: 19 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  6

2,438 to 3,047 m:  2

1,524 to 2,437 m:  2

914 to 1,523 m:  2 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  13

1,524 to 2,437 m:  2

914 to 1,523 m:  11 (2000 est.)

Heliports: 3 (2000 est.)



Cambodia    Military

Military branches: Royal Cambodian Armed Forces (RCAF), including
Army, Navy, and Air Force - created in 1993 by the merger of the
Cambodian People's Armed Forces and the two noncommunist resistance
armies

note:  Khmer Rouge and royalist insurgent forces were integrated
into the RCAF in 1999

Military manpower - military age: 18 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  2,877,137 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
1,610,761 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  162,643
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $112 million (FY01 est.)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 3% (FY01 est.)



Cambodia    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: portions of boundary with Vietnam are
disputed; parts of border with Thailand are indefinite

Illicit drugs: possible money laundering; narcotics-related
corruption reportedly involving some in the government, military,
and police; possible small-scale opium, heroin, and amphetamine
production; large producer of cannabis for the international market

======================================================================

@Cameroon




Cameroon    Introduction

Background: The former French Cameroon and part of British Cameroon
merged in 1961 to form the present country. Cameroon has generally
enjoyed stability, which has permitted the development of
agriculture, roads, and railways, as well as a petroleum industry.
Despite movement toward democratic reform, political power remains
firmly in the hands of an ethnic oligarchy.



Cameroon    Geography

Location: Western Africa, bordering the Bight of Biafra, between
Equatorial Guinea and Nigeria

Geographic coordinates: 6 00 N, 12 00 E

Map references: Africa

Area: total:  475,440 sq km

land:  469,440 sq km

water:  6,000 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly larger than California

Land boundaries: total:  4,591 km

border countries:  Central African Republic 797 km, Chad 1,094 km,
Republic of the Congo 523 km, Equatorial Guinea 189 km, Gabon 298
km, Nigeria 1,690 km

Coastline: 402 km

Maritime claims: territorial sea:  50 NM

Climate: varies with terrain, from tropical along coast to semiarid
and hot in north

Terrain: diverse, with coastal plain in southwest, dissected plateau
in center, mountains in west, plains in north

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Atlantic Ocean 0 m

highest point:  Fako 4,095 m

Natural resources: petroleum, bauxite, iron ore, timber, hydropower

Land use: arable land:  13%

permanent crops:  2%

permanent pastures:  4%

forests and woodland:  78%

other:  3% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 210 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: recent volcanic activity with release of poisonous
gases

Environment - current issues: water-borne diseases are prevalent;
deforestation; overgrazing; desertification; poaching; overfishing

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous
Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Tropical Timber 83,
Tropical Timber 94

signed, but not ratified:  Nuclear Test Ban

Geography - note: sometimes referred to as the hinge of Africa



Cameroon    People

Population: 15,803,220

note:  estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
life expectancy, higher infant mortality and death rates, lower
population and growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  42.37% (male 3,385,898; female 3,310,504)

15-64 years:  54.28% (male 4,305,354; female 4,271,958)

65 years and over:  3.35% (male 244,419; female 285,087) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 2.41% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 36.12 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 11.99 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.) NA
migrant(s)/1,000 population

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.03 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.02 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1.01 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.86 male(s)/female

total population:  1.01 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 69.83 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  54.59 years

male:  53.76 years

female:  55.44 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 4.8 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 7.73% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 540,000 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: 52,000 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Cameroonian(s)

adjective:  Cameroonian

Ethnic groups: Cameroon Highlanders 31%, Equatorial Bantu 19%, Kirdi
11%, Fulani 10%, Northwestern Bantu 8%, Eastern Nigritic 7%, other
African 13%, non-African less than 1%

Religions: indigenous beliefs 40%, Christian 40%, Muslim 20%

Languages: 24 major African language groups, English (official),
French (official)

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  63.4%

male:  75%

female:  52.1% (1995 est.)



Cameroon    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Republic of Cameroon

conventional short form:  Cameroon

former:  French Cameroon

Government type: unitary republic; multiparty presidential regime
(opposition parties legalized in 1990)

note:  preponderance of power remains with the president

Capital: Yaounde

Administrative divisions: 10 provinces; Adamaoua, Centre, Est,
Extreme-Nord, Littoral, Nord, Nord-Ouest, Ouest, Sud, Sud-Ouest

Independence: 1 January 1960 (from French-administered UN
trusteeship)

National holiday: Republic Day, 20 May (1972)

Constitution: 20 May 1972 approved by referendum; 2 June 1972
formally adopted; revised January 1996

Legal system: based on French civil law system, with common law
influence; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Suffrage: 20 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Paul BIYA (since 6
November 1982)

head of government:  Prime Minister Peter Mafany MUSONGE (since 19
September 1996)

cabinet:  Cabinet appointed by the president from proposals
submitted by the Prime Minister

elections:  president elected by popular vote for a seven-year term;
election last held 12 October 1997 (next to be held NA October
2004); prime minister appointed by the president

election results:  President Paul BIYA reelected; percent of vote -
Paul BIYA 92.6%; note - supporters of the opposition candidates
boycotted the elections, making a comparison of vote shares
relatively meaningless

Legislative branch: unicameral National Assembly or Assemblee
Nationale (180 seats; members are elected by direct popular vote to
serve five-year terms; note - the president can either lengthen or
shorten the term of the legislature)

elections:  last held 17 May 1997 (next to be held NA 2002)

election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
RDCP 109, SDF 43, UNDP 13, UDC 5, UPC-K 1, MDR 1, MLJC 1; note -
results from 7 contested seats were cancelled by the Supreme Court,
further elections on 3 August 1997 gave these seats to the RDPC

note:  the constitution calls for an upper chamber for the
legislature, to be called a Senate, but it has yet to be established

Judicial branch: Supreme Court (judges are appointed by the
president); High Court of Justice (consists of nine judges and 6
substitute judges, elected by the National Assembly)

Political parties and leaders: Cameroonian Democratic Union or UDC
[Adamou NDAM NJOYA]; Democratic Rally of the Cameroon People or RDCP
[Paul BIYA]; Movement for the Defense of the Republic or MDR [Dakole
DAISSALA]; Movement for the Liberation and Development of Cameroon
or MLDC [leader NA]; Movement for the Youth of Cameroon or MLJC
[Marcel YONDO]; National Union for Democracy and Progress or UNDP
[Maigari BELLO BOUBA, chairman]; Social Democratic Front or SDF
[John FRU NDI]; Union of Cameroonian Populations has two sections
UPC-N [Ndeh NTUMAZAH] and UPC-K [Augustin Frederic KODOCK]

Political pressure groups and leaders: Cameroon Anglophone Movement
or CAM [Vishe FAI, secretary general]; Southern Cameroon National
Council [Nfor Ngala NFOR, acting]

International organization participation: ACCT, ACP, AfDB, BDEAC, C,
CCC, CEEAC, CEMAC, ECA, FAO, FZ, G-19, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC,
ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat,
Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, ISO (correspondent), ITU, NAM, OAU, OIC,
OPCW, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNITAR, UPU, WCL, WFTU, WHO, WIPO,
WMO, WToO, WTrO

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Jerome MENDOUGA

chancery:  2349 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone:  [1] (202) 265-8790

FAX:  [1] (202) 387-3826

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
John M. YATES

embassy:  Rue Nachtigal, Yaounde

mailing address:  P. O. Box 817, Yaounde; pouch: American Embassy,
Department of State, Washington, DC 20521-2520

telephone:  [237] 23-40-14, 22-25-89, 23-05-12, 22-17-94

FAX:  [237] 23-07-53

branch office(s):  Douala

Flag description: three equal vertical bands of green (hoist side),
red, and yellow with a yellow five-pointed star centered in the red
band; uses the popular pan-African colors of Ethiopia



Cameroon    Economy

Economy - overview: Because of its oil resources and favorable
agricultural conditions, Cameroon has one of the best-endowed
primary commodity economies in sub-Saharan Africa. Still, it faces
many of the serious problems facing other underdeveloped countries,
such as a top-heavy civil service and a generally unfavorable
climate for business enterprise. Since 1990, the government has
embarked on various IMF and World Bank programs designed to spur
business investment, increase efficiency in agriculture, improve
trade, and recapitalize the nation's banks. In June 2000, the
government completed an IMF-sponsored, three-year structural
adjustment program; however, the IMF is pressing for more reforms,
including increased budget transparency and privatization. Higher
oil prices in 2000 helped to offset the country's lower cocoa export
revenues. A rebound in the cocoa market should increase growth to
over 5% in 2001.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $26 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 4.4% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $1,700 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  43.4%

industry:  20.1%

services:  36.5% (1999 est.)

Population below poverty line: 48% (2000 est.)

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 2% (2000 est.)

Labor force: NA

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture 70%, industry and commerce
13%, other 17%

Unemployment rate: 30% (1998 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $2.1 billion

expenditures:  $2.1 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
(FY00/01 est.)

Industries: petroleum production and refining, food processing,
light consumer goods, textiles, lumber

Industrial production growth rate: 4.2% (1999 est.)

Electricity - production: 3.47 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  2.59%

hydro:  97.41%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 3.227 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: coffee, cocoa, cotton, rubber, bananas,
oilseed, grains, root starches; livestock; timber

Exports: $2.1 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Exports - commodities: crude oil and petroleum products, lumber,
cocoa beans, aluminum, coffee, cotton

Exports - partners: Italy 24%, France 18%, Netherlands 10% (2000
est.)

Imports: $1.6 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Imports - commodities: machines and electrical equipment, transport
equipment, fuel, food

Imports - partners: France 29%, Germany 7%, US 6%, Japan 6% (2000
est.)

Debt - external: $10.9 billion (2000 est.)

Economic aid - recipient: on 23 January 2001, the Paris Club agreed
to reduce Cameroon's debt of $1.3 billion by $900 million; total
debt relief now amounts to $1.26 billion

Currency: Communaute Financiere Africaine franc (XAF); note -
responsible authority is the Bank of the Central African States

Currency code: XAF

Exchange rates: Communaute Financiere Africaine francs (XAF) per US
dollar - 699.21 (January 2001), 711.98 (2000), 615.70 (1999), 589.95
(1998), 583.67 (1997), 511.55 (1996); note - from 1 January 1999,
the XAF is pegged to the euro at a rate of 655.957 XAF per euro

Fiscal year: 1 July - 30 June



Cameroon    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 75,000 (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 4,200 (1997)

Telephone system: general assessment:  available only to business
and government

domestic:  cable, microwave radio relay, and tropospheric scatter

international:  satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat (Atlantic
Ocean)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 11, FM 8, shortwave 3 (1998)

Radios: 2.27 million (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 1 (1998)

Televisions: 450,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .cm

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 1 (2000)

Internet users: 20,000 (2000)



Cameroon    Transportation

Railways: total:  1,104 km

narrow gauge:  1,104 km 1.000-m gauge (1995 est.)

Highways: total:  34,300 km

paved:  4,288 km

unpaved:  30,012 km (1995)

Waterways: 2,090 km (of decreasing importance)

Ports and harbors: Bonaberi, Douala, Garoua, Kribi, Tiko

Airports: 49 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  11

over 3,047 m:  2

2,438 to 3,047 m:  4

1,524 to 2,437 m:  3

914 to 1,523 m:  1

under 914 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  38

1,524 to 2,437 m:  7

914 to 1,523 m:  21

under 914 m:  10 (2000 est.)



Cameroon    Military

Military branches: Army, Navy (includes Naval Infantry), Air Force,
National Gendarmerie, Presidential Guard

Military manpower - military age: 18 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  3,762,369 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
1,903,149 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  174,308
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $118.6 million (FY00/01)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 1.4% (FY98/99)



Cameroon    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: delimitation of international boundaries
in the vicinity of Lake Chad, the lack of which led to border
incidents in the past, is complete and awaits ratification by
Cameroon, Chad, Niger, and Nigeria; tripartite maritime boundary and
economic zone dispute with Equatorial Guinea and Nigeria is
currently before the ICJ

======================================================================

@Canada




Canada    Introduction

Background: A land of vast distances and rich natural resources,
Canada became a self-governing dominion in 1867 while retaining ties
to the British crown. Economically and technologically the nation
has developed in parallel with the US, its neighbor to the south
across an unfortified border. Its paramount political problem
continues to be the relationship of the province of Quebec, with its
French-speaking residents and unique culture, to the remainder of
the country.



Canada    Geography

Location: Northern North America, bordering the North Atlantic Ocean
and North Pacific Ocean, north of the conterminous US

Geographic coordinates: 60 00 N, 95 00 W

Map references: North America

Area: total:  9,976,140 sq km

land:  9,220,970 sq km

water:  755,170 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly larger than the US

Land boundaries: total:  8,893 km

border countries:  US 8,893 km (includes 2,477 km with Alaska)

Coastline: 243,791 km

Maritime claims: contiguous zone:  24 NM

continental shelf:  200 NM or to the edge of the continental margin

exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: varies from temperate in south to subarctic and arctic in
north

Terrain: mostly plains with mountains in west and lowlands in
southeast

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Atlantic Ocean 0 m

highest point:  Mount Logan 5,959 m

Natural resources: iron ore, nickel, zinc, copper, gold, lead,
molybdenum, potash, silver, fish, timber, wildlife, coal, petroleum,
natural gas, hydropower

Land use: arable land:  5%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  3%

forests and woodland:  54%

other:  38% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 7,100 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: continuous permafrost in north is a serious
obstacle to development; cyclonic storms form east of the Rocky
Mountains, a result of the mixing of air masses from the Arctic,
Pacific, and North American interior, and produce most of the
country's rain and snow

Environment - current issues: air pollution and resulting acid rain
severely affecting lakes and damaging forests; metal smelting,
coal-burning utilities, and vehicle emissions impacting on
agricultural and forest productivity; ocean waters becoming
contaminated due to agricultural, industrial, mining, and forestry
activities

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Air Pollution,
Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air Pollution-Persistent Organic
Pollutants, Air Pollution-Sulphur 85, Air Pollution-Sulphur 94,
Antarctic-Marine Living Resources, Antarctic Seals, Antarctic
Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered
Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Marine
Dumping, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution,
Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands

signed, but not ratified:  Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds,
Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Law
of the Sea, Marine Life Conservation

Geography - note: second-largest country in world (after Russia);
strategic location between Russia and US via north polar route;
approximately 85% of the population is concentrated within 300 km of
the US/Canada border



Canada    People

Population: 31,592,805 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  18.95% (male 3,067,102; female 2,918,839)

15-64 years:  68.28% (male 10,846,151; female 10,725,800)

65 years and over:  12.77% (male 1,715,071; female 2,319,842) (2001
est.)

Population growth rate: 0.99% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 11.21 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 7.47 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 6.13 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1.01 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.74 male(s)/female

total population:  0.98 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 5.02 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  79.56 years

male:  76.16 years

female:  83.13 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 1.6 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 0.3% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 49,000 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: 400 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Canadian(s)

adjective:  Canadian

Ethnic groups: British Isles origin 28%, French origin 23%, other
European 15%, Amerindian 2%, other, mostly Asian, African, Arab 6%,
mixed background 26%

Religions: Roman Catholic 42%, Protestant 40%, other 18%

Languages: English 59.3% (official), French 23.2% (official), other
17.5%

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  97% (1986 est.)

male:  NA%

female:  NA%



Canada    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  none

conventional short form:  Canada

Government type: confederation with parliamentary democracy

Capital: Ottawa

Administrative divisions: 10 provinces and 3 territories*; Alberta,
British Columbia, Manitoba, New Brunswick, Newfoundland, Northwest
Territories*, Nova Scotia, Nunavut*, Ontario, Prince Edward Island,
Quebec, Saskatchewan, Yukon Territory*

Independence: 1 July 1867 (from UK)

National holiday: Independence Day/Canada Day, 1 July (1867)

Constitution: 17 April 1982 (Constitution Act); originally, the
machinery of the government was set up in the British North America
Act of 1867; charter of rights and unwritten customs

Legal system: based on English common law, except in Quebec, where
civil law system based on French law prevails; accepts compulsory
ICJ jurisdiction, with reservations

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6
February 1952), represented by Governor General Adrienne CLARKSON
(since 7 October 1999)

head of government:  Prime Minister Jean CHRETIEN (since 4 November
1993)

cabinet:  Federal Ministry chosen by the prime minister from among
the members of his own party sitting in Parliament

elections:  none; the monarch is hereditary; governor general
appointed by the monarch on the advice of the prime minister for a
five-year term; following legislative elections, the leader of the
majority party in the House of Commons is automatically designated
by the governor general to become prime minister

Legislative branch: bicameral Parliament or Parlement consists of
the Senate or Senat (a body whose members are appointed to serve
until reaching 75 years of age by the governor general and selected
on the advice of the prime minister; its normal limit is 104
senators) and the House of Commons or Chambre des Communes (301
seats; members elected by direct popular vote to serve five-year
terms)

elections:  House of Commons - last held 27 November 2000 (next to
be held 2005)

election results:  percent of vote by party as of January 2001 -
Liberal Party 42%, Canadian Alliance 22%, Bloc Quebecois 13%, New
Democratic Party 4%, Progressive Conservative Party 4%; seats by
party as of January 2001 - Liberal Party 172, Canadian Alliance 66,
Bloc Quebecois 38, New Democratic Party 13, Progressive Conservative
Party 12

Judicial branch: Supreme Court of Canada (judges are appointed by
the prime minister through the governor general); Federal Court of
Canada; Federal Court of Appeal; Provincial Courts (these are named
variously Court of Appeal, Court of Queens Bench, Superior Court,
Supreme Court, and Court of Justice)

Political parties and leaders: Bloc Quebecois [Gilles DUCEPPE];
Canadian Alliance [Stockwell DAY]; Liberal Party [Jean CHRETIEN];
New Democratic Party [Alexa MCDONOUGH]; Progressive Conservative
Party [Joe CLARK]

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: ABEDA, ACCT, AfDB, APEC,
ARF (dialogue partner), AsDB, ASEAN (dialogue partner), Australia
Group, BIS, C, CCC, CDB (non-regional), CE (observer), EAPC, EBRD,
ECE, ECLAC, ESA (cooperating state), FAO, G- 7, G-10, IADB, IAEA,
IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IEA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO,
IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO, ITU, MINURCA,
MIPONUH, MONUC, NAM (guest), NATO, NEA, NSG, OAS, OECD, OPCW, OSCE,
PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNDOF, UNESCO, UNFICYP, UNHCR, UNIKOM, UNMEE,
UNMIBH, UNMIK, UNMOP, UNTAET, UNTSO, UNU, UPU, WCL, WFTU, WHO, WIPO,
WMO, WToO, WTrO, ZC

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Michael KERGIN

chancery:  501 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20001

telephone:  [1] (202) 682-1740

FAX:  [1] (202) 682-7726

consulate(s) general:  Atlanta, Boston, Buffalo, Chicago, Dallas,
Detroit, Los Angeles, Minneapolis, New York, and Seattle

consulate(s):  Miami, Princeton, San Francisco, and San Jose

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Gordon D. GIFFIN

embassy:  490 Sussex Drive, Ottawa, Ontario K1N 1G8

mailing address:  P. O. Box 5000, Ogdensburg, NY 13669-0430

telephone:  [1] (613) 238-5335, 4470

FAX:  [1] (613) 238-5720

consulate(s) general:  Calgary, Halifax, Montreal, Quebec, Toronto,
and Vancouver

Flag description: three vertical bands of red (hoist side), white
(double width, square), and red with a red maple leaf centered in
the white band



Canada    Economy

Economy - overview: As an affluent, high-tech industrial society,
Canada today closely resembles the US in its market-oriented
economic system, pattern of production, and high living standards.
Since World War II, the impressive growth of the manufacturing,
mining, and service sectors has transformed the nation from a
largely rural economy into one primarily industrial and urban. Real
rates of growth have averaged nearly 3.0% since 1993. Unemployment
is falling and government budget surpluses are being partially
devoted to reducing the large public sector debt. The 1989 US-Canada
Free Trade Agreement (FTA) and 1994 North American Free Trade
Agreement (NAFTA) (which included Mexico) have touched off a
dramatic increase in trade and economic integration with the US.
With its great natural resources, skilled labor force, and modern
capital plant Canada enjoys solid economic prospects. Two shadows
loom, the first being the continuing constitutional impasse between
English- and French-speaking areas, which has been raising the
possibility of a split in the federation. Another long-term concern
is the flow south to the US of professional persons lured by higher
pay, lower taxes, and the immense high-tech infrastructure.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $774.7 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 4.3% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $24,800 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  3%

industry:  31%

services:  66% (2000 est.)

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:
2.8%

highest 10%:  23.8% (1994)

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 2.6% (2000)

Labor force: 16.1 million (2000)

Labor force - by occupation: services 74%, manufacturing 15%,
construction 5%, agriculture 3%, other 3% (2000)

Unemployment rate: 6.8% (2000 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $126.1 billion

expenditures:  $125.3 billion, including capital expenditures of
$14.8 billion (2000)

Industries: processed and unprocessed minerals, food products, wood
and paper products, transportation equipment, chemicals, fish
products, petroleum and natural gas

Industrial production growth rate: 4.5% (2000 est.)

Electricity - production: 567.193 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  26.38%

hydro:  60%

nuclear:  12.31%

other:  1.31% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 497.532 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 42.911 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 12.953 billion kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: wheat, barley, oilseed, tobacco, fruits,
vegetables; dairy products; forest products; fish

Exports: $272.3 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Exports - commodities: motor vehicles and parts, newsprint, wood
pulp, timber, crude petroleum, machinery, natural gas, aluminum,
telecommunications equipment, electricity

Exports - partners: US 86%, Japan 3%, UK, Germany, South Korea,
Netherlands, China (1999)

Imports: $238.2 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Imports - commodities: machinery and equipment, crude oil,
chemicals, motor vehicles and parts, durable consumer goods,
electricity

Imports - partners: US 76%, Japan 3%, UK, Germany, France, Mexico,
Taiwan, South Korea (1999)

Debt - external: $1.9 billion (2000)

Economic aid - donor: ODA, $1.3 billion (1999)

Currency: Canadian dollar (CAD)

Currency code: CAD

Exchange rates: Canadian dollars per US dollar - 1.5032 (January
2001), 1.4851 (2000), 1.4857 (1999), 1.4835 (1998), 1.3846 (1997),
1.3635 (1996)

Fiscal year: 1 April - 31 March



Canada    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 18.5 million (1999)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 4.207 million (1997)

Telephone system: general assessment:  excellent service provided by
modern technology

domestic:  domestic satellite system with about 300 earth stations

international:  5 coaxial submarine cables; satellite earth stations
- 5 Intelsat (4 Atlantic Ocean and 1 Pacific Ocean) and 2
Intersputnik (Atlantic Ocean region)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 535, FM 53, shortwave 6 (1998)

Radios: 32.3 million (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 80 (plus many repeaters) (1997)

Televisions: 21.5 million (1997)

Internet country code: .ca

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 760 (2000 est.)

Internet users: 13.28 million (1999)



Canada    Transportation

Railways: total:  36,114 km; note - there are two major
transcontinental freight railway systems: Canadian National
(privatized November 1995) and Canadian Pacific Railway; passenger
service provided by government-operated firm VIA, which has no
trackage of its own

standard gauge:  36,114 km 1.435-m gauge (156 km electrified) (1998)

Highways: total:  901,902 km

paved:  318,371 km (including 16,571 km of expressways)

unpaved:  583,531 km (1999)

Waterways: 3,000 km (including Saint Lawrence Seaway)

Pipelines: crude and refined oil 23,564 km; natural gas 74,980 km

Ports and harbors: Becancour (Quebec), Churchill, Halifax, Hamilton,
Montreal, New Westminster, Prince Rupert, Quebec, Saint John (New
Brunswick), St. John's (Newfoundland), Sept Isles, Sydney,
Trois-Rivieres, Thunder Bay, Toronto, Vancouver, Windsor

Merchant marine: total:  121 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
1,767,259 GRT/2,633,290 DWT

ships by type:  barge carrier 1, bulk 67, cargo 13, chemical tanker
5, combination bulk 1, passenger 3, passenger/cargo 1, petroleum
tanker 17, railcar carrier 2, roll on/roll off 7, short-sea
passenger 3, specialized tanker 1 (2000 est.)

Airports: 1,417 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  517

over 3,047 m:  18

2,438 to 3,047 m:  15

1,524 to 2,437 m:  151

914 to 1,523 m:  244

under 914 m:  89 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  900

1,524 to 2,437 m:  74

914 to 1,523 m:  362

under 914 m:  464 (2000 est.)

Heliports: 18 (2000 est.)



Canada    Military

Military branches: Canadian Forces (includes Land Forces Command or
LC, Maritime Command or MC, Air Command or AC, Communications
Command or CC, Training Command or TC), Royal Canadian Mounted
Police (RCMP)

Military manpower - military age: 17 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  8,325,084 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
7,114,851 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  215,627
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $7.5 billion (FY00/01)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 1.3% (FY00/01)



Canada    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: maritime boundary disputes with the US
(Dixon Entrance, Beaufort Sea, Strait of Juan de Fuca, Machias Seal
Island)

Illicit drugs: illicit producer of cannabis for the domestic drug
market; use of hydroponics technology permits growers to plant large
quantities of high-quality marijuana indoors; transit point for
heroin and cocaine entering the US market

======================================================================

@Cape Verde




Cape Verde    Introduction

Background: The uninhabited islands were discovered and colonized by
the Portuguese in the 15th century; they subsequently became a
trading center for African slaves. Most Cape Verdeans descend from
both groups. Independence was achieved in 1975.



Cape Verde    Geography

Location: Western Africa, group of islands in the North Atlantic
Ocean, west of Senegal

Geographic coordinates: 16 00 N, 24 00 W

Map references: World

Area: total:  4,033 sq km

land:  4,033 sq km

water:  0 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly larger than Rhode Island

Land boundaries: 0 km

Coastline: 965 km

Maritime claims: measured from claimed archipelagic baselines

contiguous zone:  24 NM

exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: temperate; warm, dry summer; precipitation meager and very
erratic

Terrain: steep, rugged, rocky, volcanic

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Atlantic Ocean 0 m

highest point:  Mt. Fogo 2,829 m (a volcano on Fogo Island)

Natural resources: salt, basalt rock, pozzuolana (a siliceous
volcanic ash used to produce hydraulic cement), limestone, kaolin,
fish

Land use: arable land:  11%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  6%

forests and woodland:  0%

other:  83% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 1,500 to 2,000 hectares (1999)

Natural hazards: prolonged droughts; harmattan wind can obscure
visibility; volcanically and seismically active

Environment - current issues: overgrazing of livestock and improper
land use such as the cultivation of crops on steep slopes has led to
soil erosion; demand for wood used as fuel has resulted in
deforestation; desertification; environmental damage has threatened
several species of birds and reptiles; overfishing

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Desertification, Environmental Modification,
Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping

signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Geography - note: strategic location 500 km from west coast of
Africa near major north-south sea routes; important communications
station; important sea and air refueling site



Cape Verde    People

Population: 405,163 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  42.79% (male 87,458; female 85,895)

15-64 years:  50.76% (male 97,812; female 107,834)

65 years and over:  6.45% (male 10,204; female 15,960) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 0.92% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 28.71 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 7.19 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: -12.37 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.03 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.02 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  0.91 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.64 male(s)/female

total population:  0.93 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 53.22 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  69.21 years

male:  65.93 years

female:  72.6 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 4.05 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: NA%

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: NA

HIV/AIDS - deaths: NA

Nationality: noun:  Cape Verdean(s)

adjective:  Cape Verdean

Ethnic groups: Creole (mulatto) 71%, African 28%, European 1%

Religions: Roman Catholic (infused with indigenous beliefs);
Protestant (mostly Church of the Nazarene)

Languages: Portuguese, Crioulo (a blend of Portuguese and West
African words)

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  71.6%

male:  81.4%

female:  63.8% (1995 est.)



Cape Verde    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Republic of Cape Verde

conventional short form:  Cape Verde

local long form:  Republica de Cabo Verde

local short form:  Cabo Verde

Government type: republic

Capital: Praia

Administrative divisions: 14 districts (concelhos, singular -
concelho); Boa Vista, Brava, Fogo, Maio, Paul, Praia, Porto Novo,
Ribeira Grande, Sal, Santa Catarina, Santa Cruz, Sao Nicolau, Sao
Vicente, Tarrafal; note - there may be a new administrative
structure of 16 districts (Boa Vista, Brava, Maio, Mosteiros, Paul,
Praia, Porto Novo, Ribeira Grande, Sal, Santa Catarina, Santa Cruz,
Sao Domingos, Sao Nicolau, Sao Filipe, Sao Vicente, Tarrafal)

Independence: 5 July 1975 (from Portugal)

National holiday: Independence Day, 5 July (1975)

Constitution: new constitution came into force 25 September 1992;
underwent a major revision on 23 November 1995, substantially
increasing the powers of the president

Legal system: derived from the legal system of Portugal

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Pedro PIRES (since 22
March 2001)

head of government:  Prime Minister Jose Maria Pereira NEVES (since
1 February 1991)

cabinet:  Council of Ministers appointed by the president on the
recommendation of the prime minister from among the members of the
National Assembly

elections:  president elected by popular vote for a five-year term;
election last held 11 and 25 February 2001 (next to be held NA
February 2006); prime minister nominated by the National Assembly
and appointed by the president

election results:  Pedro PIRES elected president; percent of vote -
Pedro PIRES (PAICV) 49.43%, Carlos VIEGA (MPD) 49.42%; note: the
election was won by only twelve votes

Legislative branch: unicameral National Assembly or Assembleia
Nacional (72 seats; members are elected by popular vote to serve
five-year terms)

elections:  last held 14 January 2001 (next to be held NA December
2005)

election results:  percent of vote by party - PAICV 47.3%, MPD
39.8%, ADM 6%, other 6.9%; seats by party - PAICV 40, MPD 30, ADM 2

Judicial branch: Supreme Tribunal of Justice or Supremo Tribunal de
Justia

Political parties and leaders: African Party for Independence of
Cape Verde or PAICV [Jose Maria NEVES, chairman]; Democratic
Alliance for Change or ADM [Dr. Eurico MONTEIRO] (a coalition of
PCD, PTS, and UCID); Democratic Renovation Party or PRD [Jacinto
SANTOS, president]; Movement for Democracy or MPD [Antonio Gualberto
do ROSARIO, president]; Party for Democratic Convergence or PCD [Dr.
Eurico MONTEIRO, president]; Party of Work and Solidarity or PTS
[Dr. Oresimo SILVEIRA, president]; Social Democratic Party or PSD
[Joao ALEM, president]; Union for an Independent Democratic Cape
Verde or UCID [Antonio MONTEIRO, president]

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: ACCT, ACP, AfDB, CCC, ECA,
ECOWAS, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS,
ILO, IMF, IMO, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM (observer), ITU, NAM,
OAU, OPCW, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNTAET, UPU, WHO, WIPO, WMO,
WTrO (observer)

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Ferdinand Amilcar Spencer LOPES

chancery:  3415 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20007

telephone:  [1] (202) 965-6820

FAX:  [1] (202) 965-1207

consulate(s) general:  Boston

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Michael D. METELITS

embassy:  Rua Abilio Macedo 81, Praia

mailing address:  C. P. 201, Praia

telephone:  [238] 61 56 16

FAX:  [238] 61 13 55

Flag description: three horizontal bands of light blue (top, double
width), white (with a horizontal red stripe in the middle third),
and light blue; a circle of 10 yellow five-pointed stars is centered
on the hoist end of the red stripe and extends into the upper and
lower blue bands



Cape Verde    Economy

Economy - overview: Cape Verde's low per capita GDP reflects a poor
natural resource base, including serious water shortages exacerbated
by cycles of long-term drought. The economy is service-oriented,
with commerce, transport, and public services accounting for almost
70% of GDP. Although nearly 70% of the population lives in rural
areas, the share of agriculture in GDP in 1998 was only 13%, of
which fishing accounts for 1.5%. About 90% of food must be imported.
The fishing potential, mostly lobster and tuna, is not fully
exploited. Cape Verde annually runs a high trade deficit, financed
by foreign aid and remittances from emigrants; remittances
constitute a supplement to GDP of more than 20%. Economic reforms,
launched by the new democratic government in 1991, are aimed at
developing the private sector and attracting foreign investment to
diversify the economy. Prospects for 2001 depend heavily on the
maintenance of aid flows, remittances, and the momentum of the
government's development program.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $670 million (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 6% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $1,700 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  13%

industry:  19%

services:  68% (1998)

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 4% (2000)

Labor force: NA

Unemployment rate: 24% (1999 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $188 million

expenditures:  $228 million, including capital expenditures of $116
million (1996)

Industries: food and beverages, fish processing, shoes and garments,
salt mining, ship repair

Industrial production growth rate: NA%

Electricity - production: 40 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  100%

hydro:  0%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 37.2 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: bananas, corn, beans, sweet potatoes,
sugarcane, coffee, peanuts; fish

Exports: $40 million (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Exports - commodities: fuel, shoes, garments, fish, bananas, hides

Exports - partners: Portugal, UK, Germany, Spain, France, Malaysia

Imports: $250 million (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Imports - commodities: foodstuffs, industrial products, transport
equipment, fuels

Imports - partners: Portugal, Netherlands, France, UK, Spain, US

Debt - external: $260 million (2000)

Economic aid - recipient: $111.3 million (1995)

Currency: Cape Verdean escudo (CVE)

Currency code: CVE

Exchange rates: Cape Verdean escudos per US dollar - 123.080
(December 2000), 115.877 (2000), 102.700 (1999), 98.158 (1998),
93.177 (1997), 82.591 (1996)

Fiscal year: calendar year



Cape Verde    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 45,644 (2000)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 19,729 (1997)

Telephone system: general assessment:  effective system, being
improved

domestic:  interisland microwave radio relay system with both analog
and digital exchanges; work is in progress on a submarine
fiber-optic cable system which was scheduled for completion in 1998

international:  2 coaxial submarine cables; HF radiotelephone to
Senegal and Guinea-Bissau; satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat
(Atlantic Ocean)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 0, FM 11 (and 14 repeaters), shortwave
0 (1998)

Radios: 73,000 (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 1 (1997)

Televisions: 2,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .cv

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 1 (2000)

Internet users: 5,000 (2000)



Cape Verde    Transportation

Railways: 0 km

Highways: total:  1,100 km

paved:  858 km

unpaved:  242 km (1996)

Waterways: none

Ports and harbors: Mindelo, Praia, Tarrafal

Merchant marine: total:  5 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 9,523
GRT/11,798 DWT

ships by type:  cargo 4, chemical tanker 1 (2000 est.)

Airports: 8 (2000)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  8

over 3,047 m:  1

914 to 1,523 m:  7 (2000)



Cape Verde    Military

Military branches: Army, Coast Guard/Marines

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  89,543 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
50,615 (2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $4 million (FY96)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 1.8% (FY96)



Cape Verde    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

Illicit drugs: used as a transshipment point for illicit drugs
moving from Latin America and Africa destined for Western Europe

======================================================================

@Cayman Islands





Cayman Islands    Introduction

Background: The Cayman Islands were colonized from Jamaica by the
British during the 18th and 19th centuries. Administered by Jamaica
from 1863, they remained a British dependency after 1962 when the
former became independent.



Cayman Islands    Geography

Location: Caribbean, island group in Caribbean Sea, nearly one-half
of the way from Cuba to Honduras

Geographic coordinates: 19 30 N, 80 30 W

Map references: Central America and the Caribbean

Area: total:  259 sq km

land:  259 sq km

water:  0 sq km

Area - comparative: 1.5 times the size of Washington, DC

Land boundaries: 0 km

Coastline: 160 km

Maritime claims: exclusive fishing zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: tropical marine; warm, rainy summers (May to October) and
cool, relatively dry winters (November to April)

Terrain: low-lying limestone base surrounded by coral reefs

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Caribbean Sea 0 m

highest point:  The Bluff 43 m

Natural resources: fish, climate and beaches that foster tourism

Land use: arable land:  0%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  8%

forests and woodland:  23%

other:  69% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: NA sq km

Natural hazards: hurricanes (July to November)

Environment - current issues: no natural fresh water resources;
drinking water supplies must be met by rainwater catchment

Geography - note: important location between Cuba and Central America



Cayman Islands    People

Population: 35,527 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  22.21% (male 3,807; female 4,084)

15-64 years:  69.74% (male 12,102; female 12,676)

65 years and over:  8.05% (male 1,318; female 1,540) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 2.12% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 13.79 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 5.15 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 12.58 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

note:  major destination for Cubans trying to migrate to the US

Sex ratio: at birth:  0.86 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  0.93 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  0.95 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.86 male(s)/female

total population:  0.94 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 10.16 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  79.03 years

male:  76.24 years

female:  81.43 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 2.04 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: NA%

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: NA

HIV/AIDS - deaths: NA

Nationality: noun:  Caymanian(s)

adjective:  Caymanian

Ethnic groups: mixed 40%, white 20%, black 20%, expatriates of
various ethnic groups 20%

Religions: United Church (Presbyterian and Congregational),
Anglican, Baptist, Roman Catholic, Church of God, other Protestant

Languages: English

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over has ever attended school

total population:  98%

male:  98%

female:  98% (1970 est.)



Cayman Islands    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  none

conventional short form:  Cayman Islands

Dependency status: overseas territory of the UK

Government type: British crown colony

Capital: George Town

Administrative divisions: 8 districts; Creek, Eastern, Midland,
South Town, Spot Bay, Stake Bay, West End, Western

Independence: none (overseas territory of the UK)

National holiday: Constitution Day, first Monday in July

Constitution: 1959, revised 1972 and 1992

Legal system: British common law and local statutes

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6
February 1952); Governor and President of the Executive Council
Peter SMITH (since 5 May 1999)

head of government:  Kurt TIBBETTS (since November 2000)

cabinet:  Executive Council (three members appointed by the
governor, four members elected by the Legislative Assembly)

elections:  none; the monarch is hereditary; the governor is
appointed by the monarch

Legislative branch: unicameral Legislative Assembly (18 seats, three
appointed members and 15 elected by popular vote; members serve
four-year terms)

elections:  last held 8 November 2000 (next to be held NA November
2004)

election results:  percent of vote - NA%; seats - NA

Judicial branch: Summary Court; Grand Court; Cayman Islands Court of
Appeal

Political parties and leaders: there are no formal political parties
but the following loose groupings act as political organizations;
National Team; Democratic Alliance; Team Cayman

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: Caricom (observer), CDB,
Interpol (subbureau), IOC, UNESCO (associate)

Diplomatic representation in the US: none (overseas territory of the
UK)

Diplomatic representation from the US: none (overseas territory of
the UK)

Flag description: blue, with the flag of the UK in the upper
hoist-side quadrant and the Caymanian coat of arms on a white disk
centered on the outer half of the flag; the coat of arms includes a
pineapple and turtle above a shield with three stars (representing
the three islands) and a scroll at the bottom bearing the motto HE
HATH FOUNDED IT UPON THE SEAS



Cayman Islands    Economy

Economy - overview: With no direct taxation, the islands are a
thriving offshore financial center. More than 40,000 companies were
registered in the Cayman Islands as of 1997, including almost 600
banks and trust companies; banking assets exceed $500 billion. A
stock exchange was opened in 1997. Tourism is also a mainstay,
accounting for about 70% of GDP and 75% of foreign currency
earnings. The tourist industry is aimed at the luxury market and
caters mainly to visitors from North America. Total tourist arrivals
exceeded 1.2 million visitors in 1997. About 90% of the islands'
food and consumer goods must be imported. The Caymanians enjoy one
of the highest outputs per capita and one of the highest standards
of living in the world.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $930 million (1997 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 4.9% (1999 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $24,500 (1997 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  1.4%

industry:  3.2%

services:  95.4% (1994 est.)

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 3% (1998)

Labor force: 19,820 (1995)

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture 1.4%, industry 12.6%,
services 86% (1995)

Unemployment rate: 4.1% (1997)

Budget: revenues:  $265.2 million

expenditures:  $248.9 million, including capital expenditures of $NA
(1997)

Industries: tourism, banking, insurance and finance, construction,
construction materials, furniture

Industrial production growth rate: NA%

Electricity - production: 330 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  100%

hydro:  0%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 306.9 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: vegetables, fruit; livestock, turtle farming

Exports: $1.5 million (1998)

Exports - commodities: turtle products, manufactured consumer goods

Exports - partners: mostly US

Imports: $507.6 million (1998)

Imports - commodities: foodstuffs, manufactured goods

Imports - partners: US, Trinidad and Tobago, UK, Netherlands
Antilles, Japan

Debt - external: $70 million (1996)

Economic aid - recipient: $NA

Currency: Caymanian dollar (KYD)

Currency code: KYD

Exchange rates: Caymanian dollars per US dollar - 0.83 (3 November
1995), 0.85 (22 November 1993)

Fiscal year: 1 April - 31 March



Cayman Islands    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 19,000 (1995)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 2,534 (1995)

Telephone system: general assessment:  NA

domestic:  NA

international:  1 submarine coaxial cable; satellite earth station -
1 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 1, FM 5, shortwave 0 (1998)

Radios: 36,000 (1997)

Television broadcast stations: NA

Televisions: 7,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .ky

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 16 (2000)

Internet users: NA



Cayman Islands    Transportation

Railways: 0 km

Highways: total:  406 km

paved:  304 km

unpaved:  102 km

Waterways: none

Ports and harbors: Cayman Brac, George Town

Merchant marine: total:  106 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
1,656,452 GRT/2,643,036 DWT

ships by type:  bulk 21, cargo 5, chemical tanker 27, container 4,
liquefied gas 1, petroleum tanker 13, refrigerated cargo 30, roll
on/roll off 4, specialized tanker 1

note:  includes some foreign-owned ships registered here as a flag
of convenience: Cyprus 2, Denmark 2, Finland 1, Greece 11, Norway 3,
UK 3, US 3 (2000 est.)

Airports: 3 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  2

1,524 to 2,437 m:  2 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  1

914 to 1,523 m:  1 (2000 est.)



Cayman Islands    Military

Military branches: Royal Cayman Islands Police Force (RCIPF)

Military - note: defense is the responsibility of the UK



Cayman Islands    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

Illicit drugs: vulnerable to drug money laundering and drug
transshipment to the US and Europe

======================================================================

@Central African Republic




Central African Republic    Introduction

Background: The former French colony of Ubangi-Shari became the
Central African Republic upon independence in 1960. After three
tumultuous decades of misrule - mostly by military governments - a
civilian government was installed in 1993.



Central African Republic    Geography

Location: Central Africa, north of Democratic Republic of the Congo

Geographic coordinates: 7 00 N, 21 00 E

Map references: Africa

Area: total:  622,984 sq km

land:  622,984 sq km

water:  0 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly smaller than Texas

Land boundaries: total:  5,203 km

border countries:  Cameroon 797 km, Chad 1,197 km, Democratic
Republic of the Congo 1,577 km, Republic of the Congo 467 km, Sudan
1,165 km

Coastline: 0 km (landlocked)

Maritime claims: none (landlocked)

Climate: tropical; hot, dry winters; mild to hot, wet summers

Terrain: vast, flat to rolling, monotonous plateau; scattered hills
in northeast and southwest

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Oubangui River 335 m

highest point:  Mont Ngaoui 1,420 m

Natural resources: diamonds, uranium, timber, gold, oil, hydropower

Land use: arable land:  3%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  5%

forests and woodland:  75%

other:  17% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: NA sq km

Natural hazards: hot, dry, dusty harmattan winds affect northern
areas; floods are common

Environment - current issues: tap water is not potable; poaching has
diminished its reputation as one of the last great wildlife refuges;
desertification; deforestation

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species, Nuclear Test
Ban, Ozone Layer Protection, Tropical Timber 94

signed, but not ratified:  Law of the Sea

Geography - note: landlocked; almost the precise center of Africa



Central African Republic    People

Population: 3,576,884

note:  estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
life expectancy, higher infant mortality and death rates, lower
population and growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  43.23% (male 778,885; female 767,414)

15-64 years:  53% (male 929,717; female 965,947)

65 years and over:  3.77% (male 59,364; female 75,557) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 1.85% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 37.05 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 18.53 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.03 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.01 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  0.96 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.79 male(s)/female

total population:  0.98 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 105.25 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  43.8 years

male:  42.17 years

female:  45.48 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 4.86 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 13.84% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 240,000 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: 23,000 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Central African(s)

adjective:  Central African

Ethnic groups: Baya 34%, Banda 27%, Sara 10%, Mandjia 21%, Mboum 4%,
M'Baka 4%, Europeans 6,500 (including 1,500 French)

Religions: indigenous beliefs 24%, Protestant 25%, Roman Catholic
25%, Muslim 15%, other 11%

note:  animistic beliefs and practices strongly influence the
Christian majority

Languages: French (official), Sangho (lingua franca and national
language), Arabic, Hunsa, Swahili

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  60%

male:  68.5%

female:  52.4% (1995 est.)



Central African Republic    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Central African Republic

conventional short form:  none

local long form:  Republique Centrafricaine

local short form:  none

former:  Ubangi-Shari, Central African Empire

abbreviation:  CAR

Government type: republic

Capital: Bangui

Administrative divisions: 14 prefectures (prefectures, singular -
prefecture), 2 economic prefectures* (prefectures economiques,
singular - prefecture economique), and 1 commune**;
Bamingui-Bangoran, Bangui**, Basse-Kotto, Gribingui*, Haute-Kotto,
Haute-Sangha, Haut-Mbomou, Kemo-Gribingui, Lobaye, Mbomou,
Nana-Mambere, Ombella-Mpoko, Ouaka, Ouham, Ouham-Pende, Sangha*,
Vakaga

Independence: 13 August 1960 (from France)

National holiday: Republic Day, 1 December (1958)

Constitution: passed by referendum 29 December 1994; adopted 7
January 1995

Legal system: based on French law

Suffrage: 21 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Ange-Felix PATASSE
(since 22 October 1993)

head of government:  Prime Minister Martin ZIGUELE (since 1 April
2001)

cabinet:  Council of Ministers

elections:  president elected by popular vote for a six-year term;
election last held 19 September 1999 (next to be held NA 2005);
prime minister appointed by the president

election results:  Ange-Felix PATASSE reelected president; percent
of vote - Ange-Felix PATASSE 51.63%, Andre KOLINGBA 19.38%, David
DACKO 11.15%

Legislative branch: unicameral National Assembly or Assemblee
Nationale (109 seats; members are elected by popular vote to serve
five-year terms; note - there were 85 seats in the National Assembly
before the 1998 election)

elections:  last held 22-23 November and 13 December 1998 (next to
be held NA 2003)

election results:  percent of vote by party - MLPC 43%, RDC 18%, MDD
9%, FPP 6%, PSD 5%, ADP 4%, PUN 3%, FODEM 2%, PLD 2%, UPR 1%, FC 1%,
independents 6%; seats by party - MLPC 47, RDC 20, MDD 8, FPP 7, PSD
6, ADP 5, PUN 3, FODEM 2, PLD 2, UPR 1, FC 1, independents 7

note:  the National Assembly is advised by the Economic and Regional
Council or Conseil Economique et Regional; when they sit together
they are called the Congress or Congres

Judicial branch: Supreme Court or Cour Supreme; Constitutional Court
(all judges appointed by the president); Court of Appeal; Criminal
Courts

Political parties and leaders: Alliance for Democracy and Progress
or ADP [Francois PEHOUA]; Central African Democratic Assembly or RDC
[Andre KOLINGBA]; Civic Forum or FC [Gen. Timothee MALENDOMA];
Democratic Forum or FODEM [Charles MASSI]; Liberal Democratic Party
or PLD [Nestor KOMBO-NAGUEMON]; Movement for Democracy and
Development or MDD [David DACKO]; Movement for the Liberation of the
Central African People or MLPC [the party of the president,
Ange-Felix PATASSE]; Patriotic Front for Progress or FPP [Abel
GOUMBA]; People's Union for the Republic or UPR [leader NA];
National Unity Party or PUN [Jean-Paul NGOUPANDE]; Social Democratic
Party or PSD [Enoch LAKOUE]

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: ACCT, ACP, AfDB, BDEAC,
CCC, CEEAC, CEMAC, ECA, FAO, FZ, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA,
IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, ITU, NAM, OAU,
OIC (observer), OPCW, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WHO,
WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Emmanuel TOUABOY

chancery:  1618 22nd Street NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone:  [1] (202) 483-7800

FAX:  [1] (202) 332-9893

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Robert C. PERRY

embassy:  Avenue David Dacko, Bangui

mailing address:  B. P. 924, Bangui

telephone:  [236] 61 02 00

FAX:  [236] 61 44 94

Flag description: four equal horizontal bands of blue (top), white,
green, and yellow with a vertical red band in center; there is a
yellow five-pointed star on the hoist side of the blue band



Central African Republic    Economy

Economy - overview: Subsistence agriculture, together with forestry,
remains the backbone of the economy of the Central African Republic
(CAR), with more than 70% of the population living in outlying
areas. The agricultural sector generates half of GDP. Timber has
accounted for about 16% of export earnings and the diamond industry
for nearly 54%. Important constraints to economic development
include the CAR's landlocked position, a poor transportation system,
a largely unskilled work force, and a legacy of misdirected
macroeconomic policies. The 50% devaluation of the currencies of 14
Francophone African nations on 12 January 1994 had mixed effects on
the CAR's economy. Diamond, timber, coffee, and cotton exports
increased, leading an estimated rise of GDP of 7% in 1994 and nearly
5% in 1995. Military rebellions and social unrest in 1996 were
accompanied by widespread destruction of property and a drop in GDP
of 2%. The IMF approved an Extended Structure Adjustment Facility in
1998 and the World Bank extended further credits in 1999 and
approved a $10 million loan in early 2001. The government has set
targets of 3.5% GDP growth in 2001 and 2002. As of January 2001,
many civil servants were owed as much as 30 months pay, leading them
to go on strike and further damaging the economy.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $6.1 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 3.5% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $1,700 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  53%

industry:  20%

services:  27% (1999 est.)

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:
0.7%

highest 10%:  47.7% (1993)

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 3% (2000 est.)

Labor force: NA

Unemployment rate: 6% (1993)

Budget: revenues:  $638 million

expenditures:  $1.9 billion, including capital expenditures of $888
million (1994 est.)

Industries: diamond mining, sawmills, breweries, textiles, footwear,
assembly of bicycles and motorcycles

Industrial production growth rate: NA%

Electricity - production: 102 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  20.59%

hydro:  79.41%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 94.9 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: cotton, coffee, tobacco, manioc (tapioca),
yams, millet, corn, bananas; timber

Exports: $166 million (f.o.b., 2000)

Exports - commodities: diamonds, timber, cotton, coffee, tobacco

Exports - partners: Benelux 64%, Cote d'Ivoire, Spain, China, Egypt,
France (1999)

Imports: $154 million (f.o.b., 2000)

Imports - commodities: food, textiles, petroleum products,
machinery, electrical equipment, motor vehicles, chemicals,
pharmaceuticals, consumer goods, industrial products

Imports - partners: France 35%, Cameroon 13%, Benelux, Cote
d'Ivoire, Germany, Japan (1999)

Debt - external: $790 million (1999 est.)

Economic aid - recipient: $172.2 million (1995); note - traditional
budget subsidies from France

Currency: Communaute Financiere Africaine franc (XAF); note -
responsible authority is the Bank of the Central African States

Currency code: XAF

Exchange rates: Communaute Financiere Africaine francs (XAF) per US
dollar - 699.21 (January 2001), 711.98 (2000), 615.70 (1999), 589.95
(1998), 583.67 (1997), 511.55 (1996); note - from 1 January 1999,
the XAF is pegged to the euro at a rate of 655.957 XAF per euro

Fiscal year: calendar year



Central African Republic    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 10,000 (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 570 (1997)

Telephone system: general assessment:  fair system

domestic:  network consists principally of microwave radio relay and
low-capacity, low-powered radiotelephone communication

international:  satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 1, FM 3, shortwave 1 (1998)

Radios: 283,000 (1997)

Television broadcast stations: NA

Televisions: 18,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .cf

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 1 (2000)

Internet users: 1,000 (2000)



Central African Republic    Transportation

Railways: 0 km

Highways: total:  23,810 km

paved:  429 km

unpaved:  23,381 km (2000)

Waterways: 900 km

note:  traditional trade carried on by means of shallow-draft
dugouts; Oubangui is the most important river, navigable all year to
craft drawing 0.6 m or less; 282 km navigable to craft drawing as
much as 1.8 m

Ports and harbors: Bangui, Nola

Airports: 52 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  3

2,438 to 3,047 m:  1

1,524 to 2,437 m:  2 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  49

2,438 to 3,047 m:  1

1,524 to 2,437 m:  10

914 to 1,523 m:  23

under 914 m:  15 (2000 est.)



Central African Republic    Military

Military branches: Central African Armed Forces (includes Army, Air
Force, Presidential Guard, National Gendarmerie, Police Force)

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  824,139 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
430,922 (2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $29 million (FY96)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 2.2% (FY96)



Central African Republic    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

======================================================================

@Chad




Chad    Introduction

Background: Chad, part of France's African holdings until 1960,
endured three decades of ethnic warfare as well as invasions by
Libya before a semblance of peace was finally restored in 1990. The
government eventually suppressed or came to terms with most
political-military groups, settled a territorial dispute with Libya
on terms favorable to Chad, drafted a democratic constitution, and
held multiparty presidential and National Assembly elections in 1996
and 1997 respectively. In 1998 a new rebellion broke out in northern
Chad, which continued to escalate throughout 2000. Despite movement
toward democratic reform, power remains in the hands of a northern
ethnic oligarchy.



Chad    Geography

Location: Central Africa, south of Libya

Geographic coordinates: 15 00 N, 19 00 E

Map references: Africa

Area: total:  1.284 million sq km

land:  1,259,200 sq km

water:  24,800 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly more than three times the size of
California

Land boundaries: total:  5,968 km

border countries:  Cameroon 1,094 km, Central African Republic 1,197
km, Libya 1,055 km, Niger 1,175 km, Nigeria 87 km, Sudan 1,360 km

Coastline: 0 km (landlocked)

Maritime claims: none (landlocked)

Climate: tropical in south, desert in north

Terrain: broad, arid plains in center, desert in north, mountains in
northwest, lowlands in south

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Djourab Depression 160 m

highest point:  Emi Koussi 3,415 m

Natural resources: petroleum (unexploited but exploration under
way), uranium, natron, kaolin, fish (Lake Chad)

Land use: arable land:  3%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  36%

forests and woodland:  26%

other:  35% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 140 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: hot, dry, dusty harmattan winds occur in north;
periodic droughts; locust plagues

Environment - current issues: inadequate supplies of potable water;
improper waste disposal in rural areas contributes to soil and water
pollution; desertification

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species, Nuclear Test
Ban, Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands

signed, but not ratified:  Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping

Geography - note: landlocked; Lake Chad is the most significant
water body in the Sahel



Chad    People

Population: 8,707,078 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  47.73% (male 2,091,724; female 2,064,514)

15-64 years:  49.46% (male 2,035,099; female 2,271,389)

65 years and over:  2.81% (male 101,579; female 142,773) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 3.29% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 48.28 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 15.4 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.04 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.01 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  0.9 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.71 male(s)/female

total population:  0.94 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 95.06 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  50.88 years

male:  48.86 years

female:  52.98 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 6.56 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 2.69% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 92,000 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: 10,000 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Chadian(s)

adjective:  Chadian

Ethnic groups: Muslims, commonly referred to as "northerners" or
"gorane" (Arabs, Toubou, Hadjerai, Fulbe, Kotoko, Kanembou,
Baguirmi, Boulala, Zaghawa, and Maba); non-Muslims, commonly
referred to as "southerners" (Sara, Ngambaye, Mbaye, Goulaye,
Moundang, Moussei, Massa) including nonindigenous 150,000 (of whom
1,000 are French)

note:  ethnicity and regional background more commonly used to
identify Chadians than religious affiliation

Religions: Muslim 50%, Christian 25%, indigenous beliefs (mostly
animism) 25%

Languages: French (official), Arabic (official), Sara and Sango (in
south), more than 100 different languages and dialects

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write French or
Arabic

total population:  48.1%

male:  62.1%

female:  34.7% (1995 est.)



Chad    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Republic of Chad

conventional short form:  Chad

local long form:  Republique du Tchad

local short form:  Tchad

Government type: republic

Capital: N'Djamena

Administrative divisions: 14 prefectures (prefectures, singular -
prefecture); Batha, Biltine, Borkou-Ennedi-Tibesti, Chari-Baguirmi,
Guera, Kanem, Lac, Logone Occidental, Logone Oriental, Mayo-Kebbi,
Moyen-Chari, Ouaddai, Salamat, Tandjile

Independence: 11 August 1960 (from France)

National holiday: Independence Day, 11 August (1960)

Constitution: passed by referendum 31 March 1995

Legal system: based on French civil law system and Chadian customary
law; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Lt. Gen. Idriss DEBY
(since 4 December 1990)

head of government:  Prime Minister Nagoum YAMASSOUM (since 13
December 1999)

cabinet:  Council of State, members appointed by the president on
the recommendation of the prime minister

elections:  president elected by popular vote to serve five-year
term; if no candidate receives at least 50% of the total vote, the
two candidates receiving the most votes must stand for a second
round of voting; last held 20 May 2001 (next to be held NA 2006);
prime minister appointed by the president

election results:  Lt. Gen. Idriss DEBY elected president; percent
of vote - Lt. Gen. Idriss DEBY 63%, Ngarlegy YORONGAR 16%, Saleh
KEBZABO 7%

note:  government coalition - MPS, UNDR, and URD

Legislative branch: unicameral National Assembly (125 seats; members
elected by popular vote to serve four-year terms); replaces the
Higher Transitional Council or the Conseil Superieur de Transition

elections:  National Assembly - last held in two rounds on 5 January
and 23 February 1997 (next to be held in late 2001); in the first
round of voting some candidates won clear victories by receiving 50%
or more of the vote; where that did not happen, the two highest
scoring candidates stood for a second round of voting

election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
MPS 65, URD 29, UNDR 15, RDP 3, others 13

Judicial branch: Supreme Court; Court of Appeal; Criminal Courts;
Magistrate Courts

Political parties and leaders: National Union for Development and
Renewal or UNDR [Saleh KEBZABO]; Patriotic Salvation Movement or MPS
[Mahamat Saleh AHMAT, chairman] (originally in opposition but now
the party in power and the party of the president); Rally for
Democracy and Progress or RDP [Lal Mahamat CHOUA]; Union for Renewal
and Democracy or URD [Gen. Wadal Abdelkader KAMOUGUE]

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: ACCT, ACP, AfDB, BDEAC,
CEEAC, CEMAC, ECA, FAO, FZ, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IDB,
IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, ITU, NAM, OAU,
OIC, OPCW, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WHO, WIPO, WMO,
WToO, WTrO

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Hassaballah Abdelhadi Ahmat SOUBIANE

chancery:  2002 R Street NW, Washington, DC 20009

telephone:  [1] (202) 462-4009

FAX:  [1] (202) 265-1937

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Christopher E. GOLDTHWAIT

embassy:  Avenue Felix Eboue, N'Djamena

mailing address:  B. P. 413, N'Djamena

telephone:  [235] (51) 70-09, (51) 90-52, (51) 92-33

FAX:  [235] (51) 56-54

Flag description: three equal vertical bands of blue (hoist side),
yellow, and red; similar to the flag of Romania; also similar to the
flags of Andorra and Moldova, both of which have a national coat of
arms centered in the yellow band; design was based on the flag of
France



Chad    Economy

Economy - overview: Landlocked Chad's economic development suffers
from its geographic remoteness, drought, lack of infrastructure, and
political turmoil. About 85% of the population depends on
agriculture, including the herding of livestock. Of Africa's
Francophone countries, Chad benefited least from the 50% devaluation
of their currencies in January 1994. Financial aid from the World
Bank, the African Development Fund, and other sources is directed
largely at the improvement of agriculture, especially livestock
production. The World Bank's decision to back the Doba oil field
development and the Chad-Cameroon pipeline will add Chad to the
group of already booming West African oil exporters. However, the
rank and file may not benefit much from the oil development projects.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $8.1 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 4% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $1,000 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  40%

industry:  14%

services:  46% (1998)

Population below poverty line: 64% (1995 est.)

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 3% (2000 est.)

Labor force: NA

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture 85% (subsistence farming,
herding, and fishing)

Unemployment rate: NA%

Budget: revenues:  $198 million

expenditures:  $218 million, including capital expenditures of $146
million (1998 est.)

Industries: cotton textiles, meatpacking, beer brewing, natron
(sodium carbonate), soap, cigarettes, construction materials

Industrial production growth rate: 5% (1995)

Electricity - production: 90 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  100%

hydro:  0%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 83.7 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: cotton, sorghum, millet, peanuts, rice,
potatoes, manioc (tapioca); cattle, sheep, goats, camels

Exports: $172 million (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Exports - commodities: cotton, cattle, textiles

Exports - partners: Portugal 38%, Germany 12%, Thailand, Costa Rica,
South Africa, France (1999)

Imports: $223 million (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Imports - commodities: machinery and transportation equipment,
industrial goods, petroleum products, foodstuffs, textiles

Imports - partners: France 40%, Cameroon 13%, Nigeria 12%, India 5%
(1999)

Debt - external: $1 billion (1999 est.)

Economic aid - recipient: $238.3 million (1995); note - $125 million
committed by Taiwan (August 1997); $30 million committed by African
Development Bank

Currency: Communaute Financiere Africaine franc (XAF); note -
responsible authority is the Bank of the Central African States

Currency code: XAF

Exchange rates: Communaute Financiere Africaine francs (XAF) per US
dollar - 699.21 (January 2001), 711.98 (2000), 615.70 (1999), 589.95
(1998), 583.67 (1997), 511.55 (1996); note - from 1 January 1999,
the XAF is pegged to the euro at a rate of 655.957 XAF per euro

Fiscal year: calendar year



Chad    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 7,000 (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: NA

Telephone system: general assessment:  primitive system

domestic:  fair system of radiotelephone communication stations

international:  satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 2, FM 3, shortwave 5 (1998)

Radios: 1.67 million (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 1 (1997)

Televisions: 10,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .td

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 1 (2000)

Internet users: 1,000 (2000)



Chad    Transportation

Railways: 0 km

Highways: total:  33,400 km

paved:  267 km

unpaved:  33,133 km (1996)

Waterways: 2,000 km

Ports and harbors: none

Airports: 50 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  7

over 3,047 m:  2

2,438 to 3,047 m:  3

1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

under 914 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  43

1,524 to 2,437 m:  12

914 to 1,523 m:  20

under 914 m:  11 (2000 est.)



Chad    Military

Military branches: Armed Forces (includes Ground Force, Air Force,
and Gendarmerie), Republican Guard, Rapid Intervention Force,
Police, Rural and Nomadic Guard (GNNT)

Military manpower - military age: 20 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  1,814,578 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
949,997 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  82,003
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $39 million (FY96)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 3.5% (FY96)



Chad    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: delimitation of international boundaries
in the vicinity of Lake Chad, the lack of which led to border
incidents in the past, has been completed and awaits ratification by
Cameroon, Chad, Niger, and Nigeria

======================================================================

@Chile




Chile    Introduction

Background: A three-year-old Marxist government was overthrown in
1973 by a dictatorial military regime led by Augusto PINOCHET, which
ruled until a freely elected president was installed in 1990. Sound
economic policies, first implemented by the PINOCHET dictatorship,
led to unprecedented growth in 1991-97 and have helped secure the
country's commitment to democratic and representative government.
Growth slowed in 1998-99, but recovered strongly in 2000.



Chile    Geography

Location: Southern South America, bordering the South Atlantic Ocean
and South Pacific Ocean, between Argentina and Peru

Geographic coordinates: 30 00 S, 71 00 W

Map references: South America

Area: total:  756,950 sq km

land:  748,800 sq km

water:  8,150 sq km

note:  includes Easter Island (Isla de Pascua) and Isla Sala y Gomez

Area - comparative: slightly smaller than twice the size of Montana

Land boundaries: total:  6,171 km

border countries:  Argentina 5,150 km, Bolivia 861 km, Peru 160 km

Coastline: 6,435 km

Maritime claims: contiguous zone:  24 NM

continental shelf:  200/350 NM

exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: temperate; desert in north; Mediterranean in central
region; cool and damp in south

Terrain: low coastal mountains; fertile central valley; rugged Andes
in east

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Pacific Ocean 0 m

highest point:  Nevado Ojos del Salado 6,880 m

Natural resources: copper, timber, iron ore, nitrates, precious
metals, molybdenum, hydropower

Land use: arable land:  5%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  18%

forests and woodland:  22%

other:  55% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 12,650 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: severe earthquakes; active volcanism; tsunamis

Environment - current issues: air pollution from industrial and
vehicle emissions; water pollution from raw sewage

Environment - international agreements: party to:
Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic-Marine Living Resources,
Antarctic Seals, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change,
Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification,
Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer
Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands, Whaling

signed, but not ratified:  Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Nuclear
Test Ban

Geography - note: strategic location relative to sea lanes between
Atlantic and Pacific Oceans (Strait of Magellan, Beagle Channel,
Drake Passage); Atacama Desert is one of world's driest regions



Chile    People

Population: 15,328,467 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  27.25% (male 2,135,755; female 2,041,552)

15-64 years:  65.39% (male 4,993,416; female 5,029,739)

65 years and over:  7.36% (male 467,477; female 660,528) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 1.13% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 16.8 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 5.55 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  0.99 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.71 male(s)/female

total population:  0.98 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 9.36 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  75.94 years

male:  72.63 years

female:  79.42 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 2.16 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 0.19% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 15,000 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: 1,000 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Chilean(s)

adjective:  Chilean

Ethnic groups: white and white-Amerindian 95%, Amerindian 3%, other
2%

Religions: Roman Catholic 89%, Protestant 11%, Jewish NEGL%

Languages: Spanish

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  95.2%

male:  95.4%

female:  95% (1995 est.)



Chile    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Republic of Chile

conventional short form:  Chile

local long form:  Republica de Chile

local short form:  Chile

Government type: republic

Capital: Santiago

Administrative divisions: 13 regions (regiones, singular - region);
Aisen del General Carlos Ibanez del Campo, Antofagasta, Araucania,
Atacama, Bio-Bio, Coquimbo, Libertador General Bernardo O'Higgins,
Los Lagos, Magallanes y de la Antartica Chilena, Maule, Region
Metropolitana (Santiago), Tarapaca, Valparaiso

note:  the US does not recognize claims to Antarctica

Independence: 18 September 1810 (from Spain)

National holiday: Independence Day, 18 September (1810)

Constitution: 11 September 1980, effective 11 March 1981, amended 30
July 1989, 1993, and 1997

Legal system: based on Code of 1857 derived from Spanish law and
subsequent codes influenced by French and Austrian law; judicial
review of legislative acts in the Supreme Court; has not accepted
compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal and compulsory

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Ricardo LAGOS Escobar
(since 11 March 2000); note - the president is both the chief of
state and head of government

head of government:  President Ricardo LAGOS Escobar (since 11 March
2000); note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
government

cabinet:  Cabinet appointed by the president

elections:  president elected by popular vote for a six-year term;
election last held 12 December 1999, with runoff election held 16
January 2000 (next to be held NA December 2005)

election results:  Ricardo LAGOS Escobar elected president; percent
of vote - Ricardo LAGOS Escobar 51.32%, Joaquin LAVIN 48.68%

Legislative branch: bicameral National Congress or Congreso Nacional
consists of the Senate or Senado (48 seats, 38 elected by popular
vote and 10 appointed (all former presidents who served 6 years are
senators for life); members serve eight-year terms - one-half
elected every four years) and the Chamber of Deputies or Camara de
Diputados (120 seats; members are elected by popular vote to serve
four-year terms)

elections:  Senate - last held 11 December 1997 (next to be held NA
December 2001); Chamber of Deputies - last held 11 December 1997
(next to be held NA December 2001)

election results:  Senate - percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by
party - CPD (PDC 14, PS 4, PPD 2), RN 7, UDI 10, UCCP 1,
independents 10; Chamber of Deputies - percent of vote by party -
CPD 50.55% (PDC 22.98%, PS 11.10%, PPD 12.55%, PRSD 3.13%), RN
16.78%, UDI 14.43%; seats by party - CPD 70 (PDC 39, PPD 16, PRSD 4,
PS 11), RN 24, UDI 21, Socialist Party 1, right-wing independents 4

Judicial branch: Supreme Court or Corte Suprema (judges are
appointed by the president and ratified by the Senate from lists of
candidates provided by the court itself; the president of the
Supreme Court is elected by the 21-member court); Constitutional
Tribunal

Political parties and leaders: Center-Center Union Party or UCCP
[Francisco Javier ERRAZURIZ]; Christian Democratic Party or PDC
[Ricardo HORMAZABAL]; Coalition of Parties for Democracy
("Concertacion") or CPD - including PDC, PS, PPD, PRSD; Independent
Democratic Union or UDI [Pablo LONGUEIRA]; National Renewal or RN
[Alberto CARDEMIL]; Party for Democracy or PPD [Guido GIRARDI];
Radical Social Democratic Party or PRSD [Anselmo SULE]; Socialist
Party or PS [Ricardo NUNEZ]

Political pressure groups and leaders: revitalized university
student federations at all major universities; Roman Catholic
Church; United Labor Central or CUT includes trade unionists from
the country's five largest labor confederations

International organization participation: APEC, CCC, ECLAC, FAO,
G-11, G-77, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IFAD,
IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC,
IOM, ISO, ITU, LAES, LAIA, Mercosur (associate), NAM, OAS, OPANAL,
OPCW, PCA, RG, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNITAR, UNMIBH,
UNMOGIP, UNTAET, UNTSO, UNU, UPU, WCL, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO,
WTrO

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Andres BIANCHI

chancery:  1140 Connecticut Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20036

telephone:  [1] (202) 785-1746

FAX:  [1] (202) 887-5579

consulate(s) general:  Chicago, Houston, Los Angeles, Miami, New
York, Philadelphia, San Francisco, and San Juan (Puerto Rico)

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
John O'LEARY

embassy:  Avenida Andres Bello 2800, Las Condes, Santiago

mailing address:  APO AA 34033

telephone:  [56] (2) 232-2600

FAX:  [56] (2) 339-3710

Flag description: two equal horizontal bands of white (top) and red;
there is a blue square the same height as the white band at the
hoist-side end of the white band; the square bears a white
five-pointed star in the center; design was based on the US flag



Chile    Economy

Economy - overview: Chile has a market-oriented economy
characterized by a high level of foreign trade. During the early
1990s, Chile's reputation as a role model for economic reform was
strengthened when the democratic government of Patricio AYLWIN -
which took over from the military in 1990 - deepened the economic
reform initiated by the military government. Growth in real GDP
averaged 8% during 1991-97, but fell to half that level in 1998
because of tight monetary policies implemented to keep the current
account deficit in check and lower export earnings - the latter a
product of the global financial crisis. A severe drought exacerbated
the recession in 1999, reducing crop yields and causing
hydroelectric shortfalls and electricity rationing, and Chile
experienced negative economic growth for the first time in more than
15 years. Despite the effects of the recession, Chile maintained its
reputation for strong financial institutions and sound policy that
have given it the strongest sovereign bond rating in South America.
By the end of 1999, exports and economic activity had begun to
recover, and growth rebounded to 5.5% in 2000. Unemployment remains
stubbornly high, however, putting pressure on President LAGOS to
improve living standards. Meanwhile, Chile has launched free trade
negotiations with the US.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $153.1 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 5.5% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $10,100 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  8%

industry:  38%

services:  54% (2000)

Population below poverty line: 22% (1998 est.)

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:
1.2%

highest 10%:  41.3% (1998)

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 4.5% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 5.8 million (1999 est.)

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture 14%, industry 27%, services
59% (1997 est.)

Unemployment rate: 9% (December 2000)

Budget: revenues:  $16 billion

expenditures:  $17 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
(2000 est.)

Industries: copper, other minerals, foodstuffs, fish processing,
iron and steel, wood and wood products, transport equipment, cement,
textiles

Industrial production growth rate: 6% (2000 est.)

Electricity - production: 38.092 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  61%

hydro:  35%

nuclear:  0%

other:  4% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 35.426 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: wheat, corn, grapes, beans, sugar beets,
potatoes, fruit; beef, poultry, wool; fish; timber

Exports: $18 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Exports - commodities: copper, fish, fruits, paper and pulp,
chemicals

Exports - partners: EU 27%, US 16%, Japan 14%, Brazil 6%, Argentina
5% (1998)

Imports: $17 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Imports - commodities: consumer goods, chemicals, motor vehicles,
fuels, electrical machinery, heavy industrial machinery, food

Imports - partners: US 24%, EU 23%, Argentina 11%, Brazil 6%, Japan
6%, Mexico 5% (1998)

Debt - external: $39 billion (2000)

Economic aid - recipient: ODA, $40 million (2001 est.)

Currency: Chilean peso (CLP)

Currency code: CLP

Exchange rates: Chilean pesos per US dollar - 571.12 (January 2001),
535.47 (2000), 508.78 (1999), 460.29 (1998), 419.30 (1997), 412.27
(1996)

Fiscal year: calendar year



Chile    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 2.603 million (1998)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 944,225 (1998)

Telephone system: general assessment:  modern system based on
extensive microwave radio relay facilities

domestic:  extensive microwave radio relay links; domestic satellite
system with 3 earth stations

international:  satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat (Atlantic
Ocean)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 180 (eight inactive), FM 64, shortwave
17 (one inactive) (1998)

Radios: 5.18 million (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 63 (plus 121 repeaters) (1997)

Televisions: 3.15 million (1997)

Internet country code: .cl

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 7 (2000)

Internet users: 625,000 (2000)



Chile    Transportation

Railways: total:  6,701 km

broad gauge:  2,831 km 1.676-m gauge (1317 km electrified)

narrow gauge:  117 km 1.067-m gauge (28 km electrified); 3,754 km
1.000-m gauge (37 km electrified) (2000)

Highways: total:  79,800 km

paved:  11,012 km

unpaved:  68,788 km (1996)

Waterways: 725 km

Pipelines: crude oil 755 km; petroleum products 785 km; natural gas
320 km

Ports and harbors: Antofagasta, Arica, Chanaral, Coquimbo, Iquique,
Puerto Montt, Punta Arenas, San Antonio, San Vicente, Talcahuano,
Valparaiso

Merchant marine: total:  44 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
606,506 GRT/884,023 DWT

ships by type:  bulk 11, cargo 7, chemical tanker 8, container 4,
liquefied gas 2, passenger 3, petroleum tanker 4, roll on/roll off
3, vehicle carrier 2 (2000 est.)

Airports: 366 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  69

over 3,047 m:  6

2,438 to 3,047 m:  6

1,524 to 2,437 m:  22

914 to 1,523 m:  21

under 914 m:  14 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  297

over 3,047 m:  1

2,438 to 3,047 m:  4

1,524 to 2,437 m:  11

914 to 1,523 m:  62

under 914 m:  219 (2000 est.)



Chile    Military

Military branches: Army, Navy (includes Naval Air, Coast Guard, and
Marines), Air Force, Carabineros of Chile (National Police),
Investigations Police

note:  Carabineros and Investigations Police are normally
administered by the Ministry of Interior, but in times of national
emergency, they are considered part of the military

Military manpower - military age: 19 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  4,057,466 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
3,003,134 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  136,830
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $2.5 billion (FY99)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 3.1% (FY99)



Chile    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: Bolivia has wanted a sovereign corridor to
the South Pacific Ocean since the Atacama area was lost to Chile in
1884; dispute with Bolivia over Rio Lauca water rights; territorial
claim in Antarctica (Chilean Antarctic Territory) partially overlaps
Argentine and British claims

Illicit drugs: a growing transshipment country for cocaine destined
for the US and Europe; economic prosperity has made Chile more
attractive to traffickers seeking to launder drug profits; imported
precursors passed on to Bolivia; domestic cocaine consumption is
rising

======================================================================

@China





China    Introduction

Background: For centuries China has stood as a leading civilization,
outpacing the rest of the world in the arts and sciences. But in the
first half of the 20th century, China was beset by major famines,
civil unrest, military defeats, and foreign occupation. After World
War II, the Communists under MAO Zedong established a dictatorship
that, while ensuring China's sovereignty, imposed strict controls
over everyday life and cost the lives of tens of millions of people.
After 1978, his successor DENG Xiaoping gradually introduced
market-oriented reforms and decentralized economic decision making.
Output quadrupled in the next 20 years and China now has the world's
second largest GDP. Political controls remain tight even while
economic controls continue to weaken.



China    Geography

Location: Eastern Asia, bordering the East China Sea, Korea Bay,
Yellow Sea, and South China Sea, between North Korea and Vietnam

Geographic coordinates: 35 00 N, 105 00 E

Map references: Asia

Area: total:  9,596,960 sq km

land:  9,326,410 sq km

water:  270,550 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly smaller than the US

Land boundaries: total:  22,147.24 km

border countries:  Afghanistan 76 km, Bhutan 470 km, Burma 2,185 km,
Hong Kong 30 km, India 3,380 km, Kazakhstan 1,533 km, North Korea
1,416 km, Kyrgyzstan 858 km, Laos 423 km, Macau 0.34 km, Mongolia
4,676.9 km, Nepal 1,236 km, Pakistan 523 km, Russia (northeast)
3,605 km, Russia (northwest) 40 km, Tajikistan 414 km, Vietnam 1,281
km

Coastline: 14,500 km

Maritime claims: contiguous zone:  24 NM

continental shelf:  200 NM or to the edge of the continental margin

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: extremely diverse; tropical in south to subarctic in north

Terrain: mostly mountains, high plateaus, deserts in west; plains,
deltas, and hills in east

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Turpan Pendi -154 m

highest point:  Mount Everest 8,850 m (1999 est.)

Natural resources: coal, iron ore, petroleum, natural gas, mercury,
tin, tungsten, antimony, manganese, molybdenum, vanadium, magnetite,
aluminum, lead, zinc, uranium, hydropower potential (world's largest)

Land use: arable land:  10%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  43%

forests and woodland:  14%

other:  33% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 498,720 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: frequent typhoons (about five per year along
southern and eastern coasts); damaging floods; tsunamis;
earthquakes; droughts

Environment - current issues: air pollution (greenhouse gases,
sulfur dioxide particulates) from reliance on coal, produces acid
rain; water shortages, particularly in the north; water pollution
from untreated wastes; deforestation; estimated loss of one-fifth of
agricultural land since 1949 to soil erosion and economic
development; desertification; trade in endangered species

Environment - international agreements: party to:
Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous
Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone
Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical
Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling

signed, but not ratified:  Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Marine
Life Conservation

Geography - note: world's fourth-largest country (after Russia,
Canada, and US)



China    People

Population: 1,273,111,290 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  25.01% (male 166,754,893; female
151,598,117)

15-64 years:  67.88% (male 445,222,858; female 418,959,646)

65 years and over:  7.11% (male 42,547,296; female 48,028,480) (2001
est.)

Population growth rate: 0.88% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 15.95 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 6.74 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: -0.39 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.09 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.1 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1.06 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.89 male(s)/female

total population:  1.06 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 28.08 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  71.62 years

male:  69.81 years

female:  73.59 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 1.82 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 0.07% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 500,000 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: 17,000 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Chinese (singular and plural)

adjective:  Chinese

Ethnic groups: Han Chinese 91.9%, Zhuang, Uygur, Hui, Yi, Tibetan,
Miao, Manchu, Mongol, Buyi, Korean, and other nationalities 8.1%

Religions: Daoist (Taoist), Buddhist, Muslim 2%-3%, Christian 1%
(est.)

note:  officially atheist

Languages: Standard Chinese or Mandarin (Putonghua, based on the
Beijing dialect), Yue (Cantonese), Wu (Shanghaiese), Minbei
(Fuzhou), Minnan (Hokkien-Taiwanese), Xiang, Gan, Hakka dialects,
minority languages (see Ethnic groups entry)

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  81.5%

male:  89.9%

female:  72.7% (1995 est.)



China    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  People's Republic of China

conventional short form:  China

local long form:  Zhonghua Renmin Gongheguo

local short form:  Zhong Guo

abbreviation:  PRC

Government type: Communist state

Capital: Beijing

Administrative divisions: 23 provinces (sheng, singular and plural),
5 autonomous regions* (zizhiqu, singular and plural), and 4
municipalities** (shi, singular and plural); Anhui, Beijing**,
Chongqing**, Fujian, Gansu, Guangdong, Guangxi*, Guizhou, Hainan,
Hebei, Heilongjiang, Henan, Hubei, Hunan, Jiangsu, Jiangxi, Jilin,
Liaoning, Nei Mongol*, Ningxia*, Qinghai, Shaanxi, Shandong,
Shanghai**, Shanxi, Sichuan, Tianjin**, Xinjiang*, Xizang* (Tibet),
Yunnan, Zhejiang; note - China considers Taiwan its 23rd province;
see separate entries for the special administrative regions of Hong
Kong and Macau

Independence: 221 BC (unification under the Qin or Ch'in Dynasty 221
BC; Qing or Ch'ing Dynasty replaced by the Republic on 12 February
1912; People's Republic established 1 October 1949)

National holiday: Founding of the People's Republic of China, 1
October (1949)

Constitution: most recent promulgation 4 December 1982

Legal system: a complex amalgam of custom and statute, largely
criminal law; rudimentary civil code in effect since 1 January 1987;
new legal codes in effect since 1 January 1980; continuing efforts
are being made to improve civil, administrative, criminal, and
commercial law

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  President JIANG Zemin (since 27
March 1993) and Vice President HU Jintao (since 16 March 1998)

head of government:  Premier ZHU Rongji (since 18 March 1998); Vice
Premiers QIAN Qichen (since 29 March 1993), LI Lanqing (29 March
1993), WU Bangguo (since 17 March 1995), and WEN Jiabao (since 18
March 1998)

cabinet:  State Council appointed by the National People's Congress
(NPC)

elections:  president and vice president elected by the National
People's Congress for five-year terms; elections last held 16-18
March 1998 (next to be held NA March 2003); premier nominated by the
president, confirmed by the National People's Congress

election results:  JIANG Zemin reelected president by the Ninth
National People's Congress with a total of 2,882 votes (36 delegates
voted against him, 29 abstained, and 32 did not vote); HU Jintao
elected vice president by the Ninth National People's Congress with
a total of 2,841 votes (67 delegates voted against him, 39
abstained, and 32 did not vote)

Legislative branch: unicameral National People's Congress or Quanguo
Renmin Daibiao Dahui (2,979 seats; members elected by municipal,
regional, and provincial people's congresses to serve five-year
terms)

elections:  last held NA December 1997-NA February 1998 (next to be
held late 2002-NA March 2003)

election results:  percent of vote - NA%; seats - NA

Judicial branch: Supreme People's Court (judges appointed by the
National People's Congress); Local Peoples Courts (comprise higher,
intermediate and local courts); Special Peoples Courts (primarily
military, maritime, and railway transport courts)

Political parties and leaders: Chinese Communist Party or CCP [JIANG
Zemin, General Secretary of the Central Committee]; eight registered
small parties controlled by CCP

Political pressure groups and leaders: no substantial political
opposition groups exist, although the government has identified the
Falungong sect and the China Democracy Party as potential rivals

International organization participation: AfDB, APEC, ARF (dialogue
partner), AsDB, ASEAN (dialogue partner), BIS, CCC, CDB
(non-regional), ESCAP, FAO, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU,
ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat,
Interpol, IOC, ISO, ITU, LAIA (observer), MINURSO, NAM (observer),
OPCW, PCA, UN, UN Security Council, UNAMSIL, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR,
UNIDO, UNIKOM, UNITAR, UNMEE, UNTAET, UNTSO, UNU, UPU, WHO, WIPO,
WMO, WToO, WTrO (observer), ZC

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:
Ambassador-designate YANG Jiechi

chancery:  2300 Connecticut Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone:  [1] (202) 328-2500

consulate(s) general:  Chicago, Houston, Los Angeles, New York, and
San Francisco

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Joseph W. PRUEHER

embassy:  Xiu Shui Bei Jie 3, 100600 Beijing

mailing address:  PSC 461, Box 50, FPO AP 96521-0002

telephone:  [86] (10) 6532-3431

FAX:  [86] (10) 6532-6422

consulate(s) general:  Chengdu, Guangzhou, Shanghai, Shenyang

Flag description: red with a large yellow five-pointed star and four
smaller yellow five-pointed stars (arranged in a vertical arc toward
the middle of the flag) in the upper hoist-side corner



China    Economy

Economy - overview: In late 1978 the Chinese leadership began moving
the economy from a sluggish Soviet-style centrally planned economy
to a more market-oriented system. Whereas the system operates within
a political framework of strict Communist control, the economic
influence of non-state managers and enterprises has been steadily
increasing. The authorities have switched to a system of household
responsibility in agriculture in place of the old collectivization,
increased the authority of local officials and plant managers in
industry, permitted a wide variety of small-scale enterprise in
services and light manufacturing, and opened the economy to
increased foreign trade and investment. The result has been a
quadrupling of GDP since 1978. In 2000, with its 1.26 billion people
but a GDP of just $3,600 per capita, China stood as the second
largest economy in the world after the US (measured on a purchasing
power parity basis). Agricultural output doubled in the 1980s, and
industry also posted major gains, especially in coastal areas near
Hong Kong and opposite Taiwan, where foreign investment helped spur
output of both domestic and export goods. On the darker side, the
leadership has often experienced in its hybrid system the worst
results of socialism (bureaucracy and lassitude) and of capitalism
(windfall gains and stepped-up inflation). Beijing thus has
periodically backtracked, retightening central controls at
intervals. The government has struggled to (a) collect revenues due
from provinces, businesses, and individuals; (b) reduce corruption
and other economic crimes; and (c) keep afloat the large state-owned
enterprises many of which had been shielded from competition by
subsides and had been losing the ability to pay full wages and
pensions. From 80 to 120 million surplus rural workers are adrift
between the villages and the cities, many subsisting through
part-time low-paying jobs. Popular resistance, changes in central
policy, and loss of authority by rural cadres have weakened China's
population control program, which is essential to maintaining growth
in living standards. Another long-term threat to continued rapid
economic growth is the deterioration in the environment, notably air
pollution, soil erosion, and the steady fall of the water table
especially in the north. China continues to lose arable land because
of erosion and economic development. Weakness in the global economy
in 2001 could hamper growth in exports. Beijing will intensify
efforts to stimulate growth through spending on infrastructure--such
as water control and power grids--and poverty relief and through
rural tax reform aimed at eliminating arbitrary local levies on
farmers.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $4.5 trillion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 8% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $3,600 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  15%

industry:  50%

services:  35% (2000 est.)

Population below poverty line: 10% (1999 est.)

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:
2.4%

highest 10%:  30.4% (1998)

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 0.4% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 700 million (1998 est.)

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture 50%, industry 24%, services
26% (1998)

Unemployment rate: urban unemployment roughly 10%; substantial
unemployment and underemployment in rural areas (2000 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $NA

expenditures:  $NA, including capital expenditures of $NA

Industries: iron and steel, coal, machine building, armaments,
textiles and apparel, petroleum, cement, chemical fertilizers,
footwear, toys, food processing, automobiles, consumer electronics,
telecommunications

Industrial production growth rate: 10% (2000 est.)

Electricity - production: 1.173 trillion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  79.82%

hydro:  18.98%

nuclear:  1.2%

other:  0.01% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 1.084 trillion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 7.2 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 90 million kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: rice, wheat, potatoes, sorghum, peanuts,
tea, millet, barley, cotton, oilseed; pork; fish

Exports: $232 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Exports - commodities: machinery and equipment; textiles and
clothing, footwear, toys and sporting goods; mineral fuels

Exports - partners: US 21%, Hong Kong 18%, Japan 17%, South Korea,
Germany, Netherlands, UK, Singapore, Taiwan (2000)

Imports: $197 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Imports - commodities: machinery and equipment, mineral fuels,
plastics, iron and steel, chemicals

Imports - partners: Japan 18%, Taiwan 11%, US 10%, South Korea 10%,
Germany, Hong Kong, Russia, Malaysia (2000)

Debt - external: $162 billion (2000 est.)

Economic aid - recipient: $NA

Currency: yuan (CNY)

Currency code: CNY

Exchange rates: yuan per US dollar - 8.2776 (January 2001), 8.2785
(2000), 8.2783 (1999), 8.2790 (1998), 8.2898 (1997), 8.3142 (1996)

note:  beginning 1 January 1994, the People's Bank of China quotes
the midpoint rate against the US dollar based on the previous day's
prevailing rate in the interbank foreign exchange market

Fiscal year: calendar year



China    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 135 million (2000)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 65 million (January 2001)

Telephone system: general assessment:  domestic and international
services are increasingly available for private use; unevenly
distributed domestic system serves principal cities, industrial
centers, and many towns

domestic:  interprovincial fiber-optic trunk lines and cellular
telephone systems have been installed; a domestic satellite system
with 55 earth stations is in place

international:  satellite earth stations - 5 Intelsat (4 Pacific
Ocean and 1 Indian Ocean), 1 Intersputnik (Indian Ocean region) and
1 Inmarsat (Pacific and Indian Ocean regions); several international
fiber-optic links to Japan, South Korea, Hong Kong, Russia, and
Germany (2000)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 369, FM 259, shortwave 45 (1998)

Radios: 417 million (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 3,240 (of which 209 are operated by
China Central Television, 31 are provincial TV stations and nearly
3,000 are local city stations) (1997)

Televisions: 400 million (1997)

Internet country code: .cn

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 3 (2000)

Internet users: 22 million (January 2001)



China    Transportation

Railways: total:  67,524 km (including 5,400 km of provincial
"local" rails)

standard gauge:  63,924 km 1.435-m gauge (13,362 km electrified;
20,250 km double track)

narrow gauge:  3,600 km 0.750-m and 1.000-m gauge local industrial
lines (1998 est.)

note:  a new total of 68,000 km was estimated for early 1999 to take
new construction programs into account (1999)

Highways: total:  1.4 million km

paved:  271,300 km (with at least 16,000 km of expressways)

unpaved:  1,128,700 km (1999)

Waterways: 110,000 km (1999)

Pipelines: crude oil 9,070 km; petroleum products 560 km; natural
gas 9,383 km (1998)

Ports and harbors: Dalian, Fuzhou, Guangzhou, Haikou, Huangpu,
Lianyungang, Nanjing, Nantong, Ningbo, Qingdao, Qinhuangdao,
Shanghai, Shantou, Tianjin, Xiamen, Xingang, Yantai, Zhanjiang

Merchant marine: total:  1,745 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
16,533,521 GRT/24,746,859 DWT

ships by type:  barge carrier 2, bulk 324, cargo 825, chemical
tanker 21, combination bulk 11, combination ore/oil 1, container
132, liquefied gas 24, multi-functional large-load carrier 5,
passenger 7, passenger/cargo 45, petroleum tanker 258, refrigerated
cargo 22, roll on/roll off 23, short-sea passenger 41, specialized
tanker 3, vehicle carrier 1 (2000 est.)

Airports: 489 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  324

over 3,047 m:  27

2,438 to 3,047 m:  88

1,524 to 2,437 m:  147

914 to 1,523 m:  30

under 914 m:  32 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  165

over 3,047 m:  1

2,438 to 3,047 m:  1

1,524 to 2,437 m:  29

914 to 1,523 m:  56

under 914 m:  78 (2000 est.)



China    Military

Military branches: People's Liberation Army (PLA) - which includes
Ground Forces, Navy (includes Marines and Naval Aviation), Air
Force, Second Artillery Corps (the strategic missile force),
People's Armed Police (internal security troops, nominally
subordinate to Ministry of Public Security, but included by the
Chinese as part of the "armed forces" and considered to be an
adjunct to the PLA in wartime)

Military manpower - military age: 18 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  366,306,353
(2001 est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
200,886,946 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:
10,089,458 (2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $12.608 billion (FY99); note
- China's real defense spending may be several times higher than the
official figure because a number of significant items are funded
elsewhere

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 1.2% (FY99)



China    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: most of boundary with India in dispute;
dispute over at least two small sections of the boundary with Russia
remains to be settled, despite 1997 boundary agreement; portions of
the boundary with Tajikistan are indefinite; 33-km section of
boundary with North Korea in the Paektu-san (mountain) area is
indefinite; involved in a complex dispute over the Spratly Islands
with Malaysia, Philippines, Taiwan, Vietnam, and possibly Brunei;
maritime boundary agreement with Vietnam in the Gulf of Tonkin
awaits ratification; Paracel Islands occupied by China, but claimed
by Vietnam and Taiwan; claims Japanese-administered Senkaku-shoto
(Senkaku Islands/Diaoyu Tai), as does Taiwan

Illicit drugs: major transshipment point for heroin produced in the
Golden Triangle; growing domestic drug abuse problem; source country
for chemical precursors and methamphetamine

======================================================================

@Christmas Island





Christmas Island    Introduction

Background: Named in 1643 for the day of its discovery, the island
was annexed and settlement was begun by the UK in 1888. Phosphate
mining began in the 1890s. The UK transferred sovereignty to
Australia in 1958. The phosphate mine, closed in 1987, was reopened
four years later, but the need for an alternative industry has
spurred investment in tourism. Old mining areas are being restored,
and almost two-thirds of the island has been declared a national
park.



Christmas Island    Geography

Location: Southeastern Asia, island in the Indian Ocean, south of
Indonesia

Geographic coordinates: 10 30 S, 105 40 E

Map references: Southeast Asia

Area: total:  135 sq km

land:  135 sq km

water:  0 sq km

Area - comparative: about 0.7 times the size of Washington, DC

Land boundaries: 0 km

Coastline: 138.9 km

Maritime claims: contiguous zone:  12 NM

exclusive fishing zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  3 NM

Climate: tropical; heat and humidity moderated by trade winds

Terrain: steep cliffs along coast rise abruptly to central plateau

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Indian Ocean 0 m

highest point:  Murray Hill 361 m

Natural resources: phosphate

Land use: arable land:  NA%

permanent crops:  NA%

permanent pastures:  NA%

forests and woodland:  NA%

other:  NA%

note:  mainly tropical rainforest of which 60%-70% is in a national
park

Irrigated land: NA sq km

Natural hazards: the narrow fringing reef surrounding the island can
be a maritime hazard

Environment - current issues: NA

Geography - note: located along major sea lanes of Indian Ocean



Christmas Island    People

Population: 2,771 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  NA%

15-64 years:  NA%

65 years and over:  NA%

Population growth rate: 7.77% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: NA births/1,000 population

Death rate: NA deaths/1,000 population

Net migration rate: NA migrant(s)/1,000 population

Infant mortality rate: NA deaths/1,000 live births

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  NA years

male:  NA years

female:  NA years

Total fertility rate: NA children born/woman

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: NA%

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: NA

HIV/AIDS - deaths: NA

Nationality: noun:  Christmas Islander(s)

adjective:  Christmas Island

Ethnic groups: Chinese 61%, Malay 25%, European 11%, other 3%, no
indigenous population

Religions: Buddhist 55%, Christian 15%, Muslim 10%, other 20% (1991)

Languages: English, Chinese, Malay



Christmas Island    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Territory of Christmas Island

conventional short form:  Christmas Island

Dependency status: territory of Australia; administered from
Canberra by the Australian Department of the Environment, Sport, and
Territories

Government type: NA

Capital: The Settlement

Administrative divisions: none (territory of Australia)

Independence: none (territory of Australia)

National holiday: NA

Constitution: Christmas Island Act of 1958

Legal system: under the authority of the governor general of
Australia and Australian law

Executive branch: chief of state:  Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6
February 1952), represented by the Australian governor general

head of government:  Administrator William Leonard TAYLOR (since 4
February 1999)

elections:  none; the monarch is hereditary; administrator appointed
by the governor general of Australia and represents the monarch and
Australia

Legislative branch: unicameral Christmas Island Shire Council (9
seats; members elected by popular vote to serve one-year terms)

elections:  last held NA December 2000 (next to be held NA December
2001)

election results:  percent of vote - NA%; seats - independents 9

Judicial branch: Supreme Court; District Court; Magistrate's Court

Political parties and leaders: none

Political pressure groups and leaders: none

International organization participation: none

Diplomatic representation in the US: none (territory of Australia)

Diplomatic representation from the US: none (territory of Australia)

Flag description: the flag of Australia is used



Christmas Island    Economy

Economy - overview: Phosphate mining had been the only significant
economic activity, but in December 1987 the Australian Government
closed the mine. In 1991, the mine was reopened by union workers.
With the support of the government, Australian-based Casinos Austria
International Ltd. built a $34 million casino on Christmas Island,
which opened in 1993. As of yearend 1999, gaming facilities at the
casino were temporarily closed but were expected to reopen in early
2000. Another economic prospect is the possible location of a
space-launching site on the island.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $NA

GDP - real growth rate: NA%

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $NA

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  NA%

industry:  NA%

services:  NA%

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): NA%

Labor force: NA

Labor force - by occupation: tourism 400 people, mining 100 people
(1995)

Unemployment rate: NA%

Budget: revenues:  $NA

expenditures:  $NA, including capital expenditures of $NA

Industries: tourism, phosphate extraction (near depletion)

Industrial production growth rate: NA%

Electricity - production: NA kWh

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  NA%

hydro:  NA%

nuclear:  NA%

other:  NA%

Electricity - consumption: NA kWh

Agriculture - products: NA

Exports: $NA

Exports - commodities: phosphate

Exports - partners: Australia, NZ

Imports: $NA

Imports - commodities: consumer goods

Imports - partners: principally Australia

Debt - external: $NA

Economic aid - recipient: $NA

Currency: Australian dollar (AUD)

Currency code: AUD

Exchange rates: Australian dollars per US dollar - 1.7995 (January
2001), 1.7173 (2000), 1.5497 (1999), 1.5888 (1998), 1.3439 (1997),
1.2773 (1996)

Fiscal year: 1 July - 30 June



Christmas Island    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: NA

Telephones - mobile cellular: 0 (1999)

Telephone system: general assessment:  NA

domestic:  NA

international:  satellite earth stations - one Intelsat earth
station provides telephone and telex service

Radio broadcast stations: AM 1, FM 1, shortwave 0 (1998)

Radios: 1,000 (1997)

Television broadcast stations: NA

Televisions: 600 (1997)

Internet country code: .cx

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 2 (2000)

Internet users: NA



Christmas Island    Transportation

Railways: 24 km to serve phosphate mines

Highways: total:  140 km (not including 100 km that is maintained by
private industry)

paved:  30 km

unpaved:  110 km (1999)

Waterways: none

Ports and harbors: Flying Fish Cove

Merchant marine: none (2000 est.)

Airports: 1 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  1

1,524 to 2,437 m:  1 (2000 est.)



Christmas Island    Military

Military - note: defense is the responsibility of Australia



Christmas Island    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

======================================================================

@Clipperton Island




Clipperton Island    Introduction

Background: This isolated island was named for John CLIPPERTON, a
pirate who made it his hideout early in the 18th century. Annexed by
France in 1855, it was seized by Mexico in 1897. Arbitration
eventually awarded the island to France, which took possession in
1935.



Clipperton Island    Geography

Location: Middle America, atoll in the North Pacific Ocean, 1,120 km
southwest of Mexico

Geographic coordinates: 10 17 N, 109 13 W

Map references: World

Area: total:  7 sq km

land:  7 sq km

water:  0 sq km

Area - comparative: about 12 times the size of The Mall in
Washington, DC

Land boundaries: 0 km

Coastline: 11.1 km

Maritime claims: exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: tropical, humid, average temperature 20-32 degrees C, rains
May-October

Terrain: coral atoll

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Pacific Ocean 0 m

highest point:  Rocher Clipperton 29 m

Natural resources: fish

Land use: arable land:  0%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  0%

forests and woodland:  0%

other:  100% (all coral)

Irrigated land: 0 sq km (1993)

Natural hazards: NA

Environment - current issues: NA

Geography - note: reef about 8 km in circumference



Clipperton Island    People

Population: uninhabited (July 2001 est.)



Clipperton Island    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  none

conventional short form:  Clipperton Island

local long form:  none

local short form:  Ile Clipperton

former:  sometimes called Ile de la Passion

Dependency status: possession of France; administered by France from
French Polynesia by a high commissioner of the Republic

Legal system: the laws of France, where applicable, apply

Flag description: the flag of France is used



Clipperton Island    Economy

Economy - overview: Although 115 species of fish have been
identified in the territorial waters of Clipperton Island, the only
economic activity is tuna fishing.



Clipperton Island    Transportation

Waterways: none

Ports and harbors: none; offshore anchorage only



Clipperton Island    Military

Military - note: defense is the responsibility of France



Clipperton Island    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

======================================================================

@Cocos (Keeling) Islands





Cocos (Keeling) Islands    Introduction

Background: The islands were discovered in 1609, but remained
uninhabited until the 19th century. Annexed by the UK in 1857, they
were transferred to the Australian Government in 1955. The
population on the two inhabited islands is split between the mostly
Europeans on West Island and the Malays on Home Island.



Cocos (Keeling) Islands    Geography

Location: Southeastern Asia, group of islands in the Indian Ocean,
south of Indonesia, about one-half of the way from Australia to Sri
Lanka

Geographic coordinates: 12 30 S, 96 50 E

Map references: Southeast Asia

Area: total:  14 sq km

land:  14 sq km

water:  0 sq km

note:  includes the two main islands of West Island and Home Island

Area - comparative: about 24 times the size of The Mall in
Washington, DC

Land boundaries: 0 km

Coastline: 2.6 km

Maritime claims: exclusive fishing zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  3 NM

Climate: pleasant, modified by the southeast trade winds for about
nine months of the year; moderate rainfall

Terrain: flat, low-lying coral atolls

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Indian Ocean 0 m

highest point:  unnamed location 5 m

Natural resources: fish

Land use: arable land:  0%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  0%

forests and woodland:  0%

other:  100% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: NA sq km

Natural hazards: cyclones may occur in the early months of the year

Environment - current issues: fresh water resources are limited to
rainwater accumulations in natural underground reservoirs

Geography - note: two coral atolls thickly covered with coconut
palms and other vegetation



Cocos (Keeling) Islands    People

Population: 633 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  NA%

15-64 years:  NA%

65 years and over:  NA%

Population growth rate: -0.21% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: NA births/1,000 population

Death rate: NA deaths/1,000 population

Net migration rate: NA migrant(s)/1,000 population

Infant mortality rate: NA deaths/1,000 live births

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  NA years

male:  NA years

female:  NA years

Total fertility rate: NA children born/woman

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: NA%

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: NA

HIV/AIDS - deaths: NA

Nationality: noun:  Cocos Islander(s)

adjective:  Cocos Islander

Ethnic groups: Europeans, Cocos Malays

Religions: Sunni Muslim 57%, Christian 22%, other 21% (1981 est.)

Languages: English, Malay



Cocos (Keeling) Islands    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Territory of Cocos (Keeling)
Islands

conventional short form:  Cocos (Keeling) Islands

Dependency status: territory of Australia; administered from
Canberra by the Australian Department of the Environment, Sport, and
Territories

Government type: NA

Capital: West Island

Administrative divisions: none (territory of Australia)

Independence: none (territory of Australia)

National holiday: NA

Constitution: Cocos (Keeling) Islands Act of 1955

Legal system: based upon the laws of Australia and local laws

Suffrage: NA

Executive branch: chief of state:  Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6
February 1952), represented by the Australian governor general

head of government:  Administrator (non-resident) William Leonard
TAYLOR (since 4 February 1999)

cabinet:  NA

elections:  none; the monarch is hereditary; administrator appointed
by the governor general of Australia and represents the monarch and
Australia

Legislative branch: unicameral Cocos (Keeling) Islands Shire Council
(NA seats)

Judicial branch: Supreme Court; Magistrate's Court

Political parties and leaders: none

Political pressure groups and leaders: none

International organization participation: none

Diplomatic representation in the US: none (territory of Australia)

Diplomatic representation from the US: none (territory of Australia)

Flag description: the flag of Australia is used



Cocos (Keeling) Islands    Economy

Economy - overview: Grown throughout the islands, coconuts are the
sole cash crop. Copra and fresh coconuts are the major export
earners. Small local gardens and fishing contribute to the food
supply, but additional food and most other necessities must be
imported from Australia.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $NA

GDP - real growth rate: NA%

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $NA

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  NA%

industry:  NA%

services:  NA%

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): NA%

Labor force: NA

Labor force - by occupation: the Cocos Islands Cooperative Society
Ltd. employs construction workers, stevedores, and lighterage
workers; tourism employs others

Budget: revenues:  $NA

expenditures:  $NA, including capital expenditures of $NA

Industries: copra products and tourism

Industrial production growth rate: NA%

Electricity - production: NA kWh

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  NA%

hydro:  NA%

nuclear:  NA%

other:  NA%

Electricity - consumption: NA kWh

Agriculture - products: vegetables, bananas, pawpaws, coconuts

Exports: $NA

Exports - commodities: copra

Exports - partners: Australia

Imports: $NA

Imports - commodities: foodstuffs

Imports - partners: Australia

Debt - external: $NA

Economic aid - recipient: $NA

Currency: Australian dollar (AUD)

Currency code: AUD

Exchange rates: Australian dollars per US dollar - 1.7995 (January
2001), 1.7173 (2000), 1.5497 (1999), 1.5888 (1998), 1.3439 (1997),
1.2773 (1996)

Fiscal year: 1 July - 30 June



Cocos (Keeling) Islands    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: NA (1999)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 0 (1999)

Telephone system: general assessment:  NA

domestic:  NA

international:  telephone, telex, and facsimile communications with
Australia and elsewhere via satellite; 1 satellite earth station of
NA type

Radio broadcast stations: AM 1, FM 0, shortwave 0 (1998)

Radios: 300 (1992)

Television broadcast stations: 0 (1997)

Televisions: NA

Internet country code: .cc

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 2 (2000)

Internet users: NA



Cocos (Keeling) Islands    Transportation

Railways: 0 km

Highways: total:  15 km

paved:  NA km

unpaved:  NA km (2001)

Waterways: none

Ports and harbors: none; lagoon anchorage only

Merchant marine: none (2000 est.)

Airports: 1 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  1

1,524 to 2,437 m:  1 (2000 est.)



Cocos (Keeling) Islands    Military

Military - note: defense is the responsibility of Australia



Cocos (Keeling) Islands    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

======================================================================

@Colombia




Colombia    Introduction

Background: Colombia was one of the three countries that emerged
from the collapse of Gran Colombia in 1830 (the others being Ecuador
and Venezuela). A 40-year insurgent campaign to overthrow the
Colombian Government escalated during the 1990s, undergirded in part
by funds from the drug trade. Although the violence is deadly and
large swaths of the countryside are under guerrilla influence, the
movement lacks the military strength or popular support necessary to
overthrow the government. While Bogota continues to try to negotiate
a settlement, neighboring countries worry about the violence
spilling over their borders.



Colombia    Geography

Location: Northern South America, bordering the Caribbean Sea,
between Panama and Venezuela, and bordering the North Pacific Ocean,
between Ecuador and Panama

Geographic coordinates: 4 00 N, 72 00 W

Map references: South America, Central America and the Caribbean

Area: total:  1,138,910 sq km

land:  1,038,700 sq km

water:  100,210 sq km

note:  includes Isla de Malpelo, Roncador Cay, Serrana Bank, and
Serranilla Bank

Area - comparative: slightly less than three times the size of
Montana

Land boundaries: total:  6,004 km

border countries:  Brazil 1,643 km, Ecuador 590 km, Panama 225 km,
Peru 1,496 km (est.), Venezuela 2,050 km

Coastline: 3,208 km (Caribbean Sea 1,760 km, North Pacific Ocean
1,448 km)

Maritime claims: continental shelf:  200-m depth or to the depth of
exploitation

exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: tropical along coast and eastern plains; cooler in highlands

Terrain: flat coastal lowlands, central highlands, high Andes
Mountains, eastern lowland plains

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Pacific Ocean 0 m

highest point:  Pico Cristobal Colon 5,775 m

note:  nearby Pico Simon Bolivar also has the same elevation

Natural resources: petroleum, natural gas, coal, iron ore, nickel,
gold, copper, emeralds, hydropower

Land use: arable land:  4%

permanent crops:  1%

permanent pastures:  39%

forests and woodland:  48%

other:  8% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 5,300 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: highlands subject to volcanic eruptions; occasional
earthquakes; periodic droughts

Environment - current issues: deforestation; soil damage from
overuse of pesticides; air pollution, especially in Bogota, from
vehicle emissions

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Antarctic Treaty,
Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species,
Hazardous Wastes, Marine Life Conservation, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone
Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical
Timber 94, Wetlands

signed, but not ratified:  Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Law of
the Sea, Marine Dumping

Geography - note: only South American country with coastlines on
both North Pacific Ocean and Caribbean Sea



Colombia    People

Population: 40,349,388 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  31.88% (male 6,507,282; female 6,354,454)

15-64 years:  63.37% (male 12,452,182; female 13,117,707)

65 years and over:  4.75% (male 859,967; female 1,057,796) (2001
est.)

Population growth rate: 1.64% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 22.41 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 5.69 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: -0.33 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.03 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.02 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  0.95 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.81 male(s)/female

total population:  0.97 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 23.96 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  70.57 years

male:  66.71 years

female:  74.55 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 2.66 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 0.31% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 71,000 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: 1,700 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Colombian(s)

adjective:  Colombian

Ethnic groups: mestizo 58%, white 20%, mulatto 14%, black 4%, mixed
black-Amerindian 3%, Amerindian 1%

Religions: Roman Catholic 90%

Languages: Spanish

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  91.3%

male:  91.2%

female:  91.4% (1995 est.)



Colombia    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Republic of Colombia

conventional short form:  Colombia

local long form:  Republica de Colombia

local short form:  Colombia

Government type: republic; executive branch dominates government
structure

Capital: Bogota

Administrative divisions: 32 departments (departamentos, singular -
departamento) and 1 capital district* (distrito capital); Amazonas,
Antioquia, Arauca, Atlantico, Bolivar, Boyaca, Caldas, Caqueta,
Casanare, Cauca, Cesar, Choco, Cordoba, Cundinamarca, Guainia,
Guaviare, Huila, La Guajira, Magdalena, Meta, Narino, Norte de
Santander, Putumayo, Quindio, Risaralda, San Andres y Providencia,
Distrito Capital de Santa Fe de Bogota*, Santander, Sucre, Tolima,
Valle del Cauca, Vaupes, Vichada

Independence: 20 July 1810 (from Spain)

National holiday: Independence Day, 20 July (1810)

Constitution: 5 July 1991

Legal system: based on Spanish law; a new criminal code modeled
after US procedures was enacted in 1992-93; judicial review of
executive and legislative acts; accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction,
with reservations

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Andres PASTRANA (since
7 August 1998); Vice President Gustavo BELL Lemus (since 7 August
1998); note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
government

head of government:  President Andres PASTRANA (since 7 August
1998); Vice President Gustavo BELL Lemus (since 7 August 1998); note
- the president is both the chief of state and head of government

cabinet:  Cabinet Cabinet consists of a coalition of the two
dominant parties - the PL and PSC - and independents

elections:  president elected by popular vote for a four-year term;
election last held 31 May 1998 (next to be held NA May 2002); vice
president elected by popular vote for a four-year term in a new
procedure that replaces the traditional designation of vice
presidents by newly elected presidents; election last held 31 May
1998 (next to be held NA May 2002)

election results:  no candidate received more than 50% of the total
vote, therefore, a run-off election to select a president from the
two leading candidates was held 21 June 1998; Andres PASTRANA
elected president; percent of vote - 50.3%; Gustavo BELL elected
vice president; percent of vote - 50.3%

Legislative branch: bicameral Congress or Congreso consists of the
Senate or Senado (102 seats; members are elected by popular vote to
serve four-year terms) and the House of Representatives or Camara de
Representantes (163 seats; members are elected by popular vote to
serve four-year terms)

elections:  Senate - last held 8 March 1998 (next to be held NA
March 2002); House of Representatives - last held 8 March 1998 (next
to be held NA March 2002)

election results:  Senate - percent of vote by party - PL 50%, PSC
24%, smaller parties (many aligned with conservatives) 26%; seats by
party - PL 58, PSC 28, smaller parties 16; House of Representatives
- percent of vote by party - PL 52%, PSC 17%, other 31%; seats by
party - PL 98, PSC 52, indigenous parties 2, others 11

Judicial branch: four, coequal, supreme judicial organs; Supreme
Court of Justice or Corte Suprema de Justical (highest court of
criminal law; judges are selected from the nominees of the Higher
Council of Justice for eight-year terms); Council of State (highest
court of administrative law, judges are selected from the nominees
of the Higher Council of Justice for eight-year terms);
Constitutional Court (guards integrity and supremacy of the
constitution, rules on constitutionality of laws, amendments to the
constitution, and international treaties); Higher Council of Justice
(administers and disciplines the civilian judiciary; members of the
disciplinary chamber resolve jurisdictional conflicts arising
between other courts; members are elected by three sister courts and
Congress for eight-year terms)

Political parties and leaders: Conservative Party or PSC [Ciro
RAMIREZ Anzon]; Liberal Party or PL [Luis Guillermo VELEZ];
Patriotic Union or UP is a legal political party formed by
Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia or FARC and Colombian
Communist Party or PCC [Jaime CAICEDO]; 19 of April Movement or M-19
[Antonio NAVARRO Wolff]

Political pressure groups and leaders: two largest insurgent groups
active in Colombia - National Liberation Army or ELN and
Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia or FARC; largest paramilitary
group is United Self-Defense Groups of Colombia or AUC

International organization participation: BCIE, CAN, Caricom
(observer), CCC, CDB, ECLAC, FAO, G- 3, G-11, G-24, G-77, IADB,
IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO,
IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO, ITU, LAES,
LAIA, NAM, OAS, OPANAL, OPCW, PCA, RG, UN, UN Security Council
(temporary), UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNU, UPU, WCL, WFTU, WHO,
WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Luis Alberto MORENO Mejia

chancery:  2118 Leroy Place NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone:  [1] (202) 387-8338

FAX:  [1] (202) 232-8643

consulate(s) general:  Boston, Chicago, Houston, Los Angeles, Miami,
New Orleans, New York, San Francisco, San Juan (Puerto Rico), and
Washington, DC

consulate(s):  Atlanta

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Anne W. PATTERSON

embassy:  Calle 22D-BIS, numbers 47-51, Apartado Aereo 3831

mailing address:  Carrera 45 #22D-45, Bogota, D.C., APO AA 34038

telephone:  [57] (1) 315-0811

FAX:  [57] (1) 315-2197

Flag description: three horizontal bands of yellow (top,
double-width), blue, and red; similar to the flag of Ecuador, which
is longer and bears the Ecuadorian coat of arms superimposed in the
center



Colombia    Economy

Economy - overview: Colombia is poised for muted growth in the next
several years, marking continued recovery from the severe 1999
recession when GDP fell by about 4%. President PASTRANA's
well-respected economic team is working to keep the economy on
track, maintaining low interest rates, for example. In accordance
with its IMF loan agreement, the administration also is taking steps
to improve the public sector's fiscal health. However, many
challenges to improved prosperity remain. Unemployment was stuck at
a record 20% in 2000, contributing to the extreme inequality in
income distribution. Two of Colombia's leading exports, oil and
coffee, face an uncertain future; new exploration is needed to
offset declining oil production, while coffee harvests and prices
are depressed. The lack of public security is a key concern for
investors, making progress in the government's peace negotiations
with insurgent groups an important driver of economic performance.
Colombia is looking for continued support from the international
community to boost economic and peace prospects.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $250 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 3% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $6,200 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  19%

industry:  26%

services:  55% (1999 est.)

Population below poverty line: 55% (1999)

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  1%

highest 10%:  44% (1999)

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 9% (2000)

Labor force: 18.3 million (1999 est.)

Labor force - by occupation: services 46%, agriculture 30%, industry
24% (1990)

Unemployment rate: 20% (2000 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $22 billion

expenditures:  $24 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
(2000 est.)

Industries: textiles, food processing, oil, clothing and footwear,
beverages, chemicals, cement; gold, coal, emeralds

Industrial production growth rate: 11% (2000 est.)

Electricity - production: 43.574 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  22.27%

hydro:  76.19%

nuclear:  0%

other:  1.54% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 40.532 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 27 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 35 million kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: coffee, cut flowers, bananas, rice, tobacco,
corn, sugarcane, cocoa beans, oilseed, vegetables; forest products;
shrimp

Exports: $14.5 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Exports - commodities: petroleum, coffee, coal, apparel, bananas,
cut flowers

Exports - partners: US 50%, EU 14%, Andean Community of Nations 16%,
Japan 2% (2000 est.)

Imports: $12.4 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Imports - commodities: industrial equipment, transportation
equipment, consumer goods, chemicals, paper products, fuels,
electricity

Imports - partners: US 35%, EU 16%, Andean Community of Nations 15%,
Japan 5% (2000 est.)

Debt - external: $34 billion (2000 est.)

Economic aid - recipient: $40.7 million (1995)

Currency: Colombian peso (COP)

Currency code: COP

Exchange rates: Colombian pesos per US dollar - 2,241.43 (January
2001), 2087.90 (2000), 1,756.23 (1999), 1,426.04 (1998), 1,140.96
(1997), 1,036.69 (1996)

Fiscal year: calendar year



Colombia    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 5,433,565 (December 1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 1,800,229 (December 1998)

Telephone system: general assessment:  modern system in many respects

domestic:  nationwide microwave radio relay system; domestic
satellite system with 41 earth stations; fiber-optic network linking
50 cities

international:  satellite earth stations - 6 Intelsat, 1 Inmarsat; 3
fully digitalized international switching centers; 8 submarine cables

Radio broadcast stations: AM 454, FM 34, shortwave 27 (1999)

Radios: 21 million (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 60 (includes seven low-power
stations) (1997)

Televisions: 4.59 million (1997)

Internet country code: .co

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 18 (2000)

Internet users: 600,000 (2000)



Colombia    Transportation

Railways: total:  3,304 km

standard gauge:  150 km 1.435-m gauge (connects Cerrejon coal mines
to maritime port at Bahia de Portete)

narrow gauge:  3,154 km 0.914-m gauge (major sections not in use)
(2000)

Highways: total:  110,000 km

paved:  26,000 km

unpaved:  84,000 km (2000)

Waterways: 18,140 km (navigable by river boats) (April 1996)

Pipelines: crude oil 3,585 km; petroleum products 1,350 km; natural
gas 830 km; natural gas liquids 125 km

Ports and harbors: Bahia de Portete, Barranquilla, Buenaventura,
Cartagena, Leticia, Puerto Bolivar, San Andres, Santa Marta, Tumaco,
Turbo

Merchant marine: total:  13 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
53,322 GRT/69,444 DWT

ships by type:  bulk 5, cargo 4, container 1, multi-functional
large-load carrier 1, petroleum tanker 2 (2000 est.)

Airports: 1,091 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  92

over 3,047 m:  2

2,438 to 3,047 m:  8

1,524 to 2,437 m:  38

914 to 1,523 m:  36

under 914 m:  8 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  999

2,438 to 3,047 m:  1

1,524 to 2,437 m:  64

914 to 1,523 m:  321

under 914 m:  613 (2000 est.)



Colombia    Military

Military branches: Army (Ejercito Nacional), Navy (Armada Nacional,
includes Marines and Coast Guard), Air Force (Fuerza Aerea
Colombiana), National Police (Policia Nacional)

Military manpower - military age: 18 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  10,779,148 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
7,205,211 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  379,295
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $3 billion (FY00)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 3.4% (FY00)



Colombia    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: maritime boundary dispute with Venezuela
in the Gulf of Venezuela; territorial disputes with Nicaragua over
Archipelago de San Andres y Providencia and Quita Sueno Bank

Illicit drugs: illicit producer of coca, opium poppies, and
cannabis; world's leading coca cultivator (cultivation of coca in
1999 - 122,500 hectares, a 20.3% increase over 1998); cultivation of
opium in 1999 increased to 7,500 hectares from 6,100 hectares in
1998; potential production of opium in 1999 - 75 metric tons, a 25%
increase over 1998; potential production of heroin in 1999 - nearly
8 metric tons, as compared with 6 tons in 1998; the world's largest
processor of coca derivatives into cocaine; supplier of about 90% of
the cocaine to the US and the great majority of cocaine to other
international drug markets, and an important supplier of heroin to
the US market; active aerial eradication program

======================================================================

@Comoros




Comoros    Introduction

Background: Unstable Comoros has endured 19 coups or attempted coups
since gaining independence from France in 1975. In 1997, the islands
of Anjouan and Moheli declared their independence from Comoros. In
1999, military chief Col. AZALI seized power. He has pledged to
resolve the secessionist crisis through the 2000 Fomboni Accord, a
confederal arrangement that the Organization of African Unity has
yet to recognize.



Comoros    Geography

Location: Southern Africa, group of islands in the Mozambique
Channel, about two-thirds of the way between northern Madagascar and
northern Mozambique

Geographic coordinates: 12 10 S, 44 15 E

Map references: Africa

Area: total:  2,170 sq km

land:  2,170 sq km

water:  0 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly more than 12 times the size of
Washington, DC

Land boundaries: 0 km

Coastline: 340 km

Maritime claims: exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: tropical marine; rainy season (November to May)

Terrain: volcanic islands, interiors vary from steep mountains to
low hills

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Indian Ocean 0 m

highest point:  Le Kartala 2,360 m

Natural resources: NEGL

Land use: arable land:  35%

permanent crops:  10%

permanent pastures:  7%

forests and woodland:  18%

other:  30% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: NA sq km

Natural hazards: cyclones possible during rainy season (December to
April); Le Kartala on Grand Comore is an active volcano

Environment - current issues: soil degradation and erosion results
from crop cultivation on slopes without proper terracing;
deforestation

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous
Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution,
Wetlands

signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Geography - note: important location at northern end of Mozambique
Channel



Comoros    People

Population: 596,202 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  42.81% (male 127,955; female 127,267)

15-64 years:  54.26% (male 159,560; female 163,949)

65 years and over:  2.93% (male 8,326; female 9,145) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 3.02% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 39.52 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 9.35 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: NEGL migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.03 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.01 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  0.97 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.91 male(s)/female

total population:  0.98 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 84.07 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  60.41 years

male:  58.2 years

female:  62.68 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 5.32 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 0.12% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: NA

HIV/AIDS - deaths: NA

Nationality: noun:  Comoran(s)

adjective:  Comoran

Ethnic groups: Antalote, Cafre, Makoa, Oimatsaha, Sakalava

Religions: Sunni Muslim 98%, Roman Catholic 2%

Languages: Arabic (official), French (official), Comoran (a blend of
Swahili and Arabic)

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  57.3%

male:  64.2%

female:  50.4% (1995 est.)



Comoros    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Federal Islamic Republic of
the Comoros

conventional short form:  Comoros

local long form:  Republique Federale Islamique des Comores

local short form:  Comores

Government type: independent republic

Capital: Moroni

Administrative divisions: 3 islands; Grande Comore (Njazidja),
Anjouan (Nzwani), and Moheli (Mwali); note - there are also four
municipalities named Domoni, Fomboni, Moroni, and Moutsamoudou

Independence: 6 July 1975 (from France)

National holiday: Independence Day, 6 July (1975)

Constitution: 20 October 1996

Legal system: French and Muslim law in a new consolidated code

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  President AZALI Assoumani (since
6 May 1999); note - the interim government of President Tajiddine
Ben Said MASSOUNDE, which had assumed power on 6 November 1998 upon
the death of President Mohamed TAKI Abdulkarim, was overthrown in a
bloodless coup on 30 April 1999

head of government:  Prime Minister Hamada MADI (since late November
2000)

cabinet:  Council of Ministers appointed by the president

elections:  president elected by popular vote for a five-year term;
election last held 6 and 16 March 1996 (next to be held NA); prime
minister appointed by the president

note:  President AZALI claimed a one-year term at the time of the
coup; but elections, promised for spring 2000, were not held

election results:  results of the last presidential election before
the coup were: Mohamed TAKI Abdulkarim elected president; percent of
vote - 64.3%

Legislative branch: bicameral legislature consists of the Senate (15
seats: five from each island); members selected by regional councils
for six-year terms) and a Federal Assembly or Assemblee Federale (43
seats; members elected by popular vote to serve five-year terms);
note - the Federal Assembly was dissolved following the coup of 30
April 1999

elections:  Federal Assembly - last held 1 and 8 December 1996 (next
to be held NA)

election results:  Federal Assembly - percent of vote by party -
NA%; seats by party - RND 39, FNJ 3, independent 1

note:  the constitution stipulates that only parties that win six
seats in the Federal Assembly (two from each island) are permitted
to be in opposition, but if no party accomplishes that, the second
most successful party will be in opposition; in the elections of
December 1996 the FNJ appeared to qualify as opposition

Judicial branch: Supreme Court or Cour Supremes (two members
appointed by the president, two members elected by the Federal
Assembly, one elected by the Council of each island, and others are
former presidents of the republic)

Political parties and leaders: Front National pour la Justice or FNJ
(Islamic party in opposition) [Ahmed Abdallah MOHAMED, Ahmed
ABOUBACAR, Soidiki M'BAPANOZA]; Rassemblement National pour le
Development or RND (party of the government) [Ali Bazi SELIM]

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: ACCT, ACP, AfDB, AFESD,
AL, CCC, ECA, FAO, FZ, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC,
IFRCS (associate), ILO, IMF, InOC, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, ISO
(subscriber), ITU, NAM, OAU, OIC, OPCW, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO,
UPU, WHO, WMO, WTrO (applicant)

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Deputy
Permanent Representative Mahmoud Mohamed ABOUD (acting)

chancery:  (temporary) care of the Permanent Mission of the Federal
and Islamic Republic of the Comoros to the United Nations, 420 East
50th Street, New York, NY 10022

telephone:  [1] (212) 972-8010

FAX:  [1] (212) 983-4712

Diplomatic representation from the US: the US does not have an
embassy in Comoros; the ambassador to Mauritius is accredited to
Comoros

Flag description: green with a white crescent in the center of the
field, its points facing downward; there are four white five-pointed
stars placed in a line between the points of the crescent; the
crescent, stars, and color green are traditional symbols of Islam;
the four stars represent the four main islands of the archipelago -
Mwali, Njazidja, Nzwani, and Mayotte (a territorial collectivity of
France, but claimed by Comoros); the design, the most recent of
several, is described in the constitution approved by referendum on
7 June 1992



Comoros    Economy

Economy - overview: One of the world's poorest countries, Comoros is
made up of three islands that have inadequate transportation links,
a young and rapidly increasing population, and few natural
resources. The low educational level of the labor force contributes
to a subsistence level of economic activity, high unemployment, and
a heavy dependence on foreign grants and technical assistance.
Agriculture, including fishing, hunting, and forestry, is the
leading sector of the economy. It contributes 40% to GDP, employs
80% of the labor force, and provides most of the exports. The
country is not self-sufficient in food production; rice, the main
staple, accounts for the bulk of imports. The government is
struggling to upgrade education and technical training, to privatize
commercial and industrial enterprises, to improve health services,
to diversify exports, to promote tourism, and to reduce the high
population growth rate. Continued foreign support is essential if
the goal of 4% annual GDP growth is to be met. Remittances from
150,000 Comorans abroad help supplement GDP.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $419 million (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 0.5% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $720 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  40%

industry:  4%

services:  56% (2000 est.)

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 3.5% (1999)

Labor force: 144,500 (1996 est.)

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture 80%

Unemployment rate: 20% (1996 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $48 million

expenditures:  $53 million, including capital expenditures of $NA
(1997)

Industries: tourism, perfume distillation, textiles, furniture,
jewelry, construction materials, soft drinks

Industrial production growth rate: -2% (1999 est.)

Electricity - production: 17 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  88.24%

hydro:  11.76%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 15.8 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: vanilla, cloves, perfume essences, copra,
coconuts, bananas, cassava (tapioca)

Exports: $7.9 million (f.o.b., 1999 est.)

Exports - commodities: vanilla, ylang-ylang, cloves, perfume oil,
copra

Exports - partners: France 50%, Germany 25% (1998)

Imports: $55.1 million (f.o.b., 1999 est.)

Imports - commodities: rice and other foodstuffs, consumer goods;
petroleum products, cement, transport equipment

Imports - partners: France 38%, Pakistan 13%, South Africa 8%, Kenya
8% (1998)

Debt - external: $197 million (1997 est.)

Economic aid - recipient: $28.1 million (1997)

Currency: Comoran franc (KMF)

Currency code: KMF

Exchange rates: Comoran francs per US dollar - 524.41 (January
2001), 533.98 (2000), 461.77 (1999), 442.46 (1998), 437.75 (1997),
383.66 (1996)

note:  prior to January 1999, the official rate was pegged to the
French franc at 75 Comoran francs per French franc; since 1 January
1999, the Comoran franc is pegged to the euro at a rate of 491.9677
Comoran francs per euro

Fiscal year: calendar year



Comoros    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 6,000 (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: NA

Telephone system: general assessment:  sparse system of microwave
radio relay and HF radiotelephone communication stations

domestic:  HF radiotelephone communications and microwave radio relay

international:  HF radiotelephone communications to Madagascar and
Reunion

Radio broadcast stations: AM 1, FM 2, shortwave 1 (1998)

Radios: 90,000 (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 0 (1998)

Televisions: 1,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .km

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 1 (2000)

Internet users: 800 (2000)



Comoros    Transportation

Railways: 0 km

Highways: total:  880 km

paved:  673 km

unpaved:  207 km (1996)

Waterways: none

Ports and harbors: Fomboni, Moroni, Moutsamoudou

Merchant marine: total:  2 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 19,122
GRT/29,817 DWT

ships by type:  cargo 2 (2000 est.)

Airports: 4 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  4

2,438 to 3,047 m:  1

914 to 1,523 m:  3 (2000 est.)



Comoros    Military

Military branches: Comoran Security Force

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  141,120 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
83,920 (2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $NA

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: NA%



Comoros    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: claims French-administered Mayotte; the
island of Anjouan (Nzwani) has moved to secede from Comoros

======================================================================

@Congo, Democratic Republic of the




Congo, Democratic Republic of the    Introduction

Background: Since 1994 the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DROC;
formerly called Zaire) has been rent by ethnic strife and civil war,
touched off by a massive inflow of refugees from the fighting in
Rwanda and Burundi. The government of former president MOBUTU Sese
Seko was toppled by a rebellion led by Laurent KABILA in May 1997;
his regime was subsequently challenged by a Rwanda- and
Uganda-backed rebellion in August 1998. Troops from Zimbabwe,
Angola, Namibia, Chad, and Sudan intervened to support the Kinshasa
regime. A cease-fire was signed on 10 July 1999, but sporadic
fighting continued. KABILA was assassinated in January 2001 and his
son Joseph KABILA was named head of state. The new president quickly
began overtures to end the war.



Congo, Democratic Republic of the    Geography

Location: Central Africa, northeast of Angola

Geographic coordinates: 0 00 N, 25 00 E

Map references: Africa

Area: total:  2,345,410 sq km

land:  2,267,600 sq km

water:  77,810 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly less than one-fourth the size of the US

Land boundaries: total:  10,744 km

border countries:  Angola 2,511 km, Burundi 233 km, Central African
Republic 1,577 km, Republic of the Congo 2,410 km, Rwanda 217 km,
Sudan 628 km, Tanzania 473 km, Uganda 765 km, Zambia 1,930 km

Coastline: 37 km

Maritime claims: exclusive economic zone:  boundaries with neighbors

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: tropical; hot and humid in equatorial river basin; cooler
and drier in southern highlands; cooler and wetter in eastern
highlands; north of Equator - wet season April to October, dry
season December to February; south of Equator - wet season November
to March, dry season April to October

Terrain: vast central basin is a low-lying plateau; mountains in east

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Atlantic Ocean 0 m

highest point:  Pic Marguerite on Mont Ngaliema (Mount Stanley)
5,110 m

Natural resources: cobalt, copper, cadmium, petroleum, industrial
and gem diamonds, gold, silver, zinc, manganese, tin, germanium,
uranium, radium, bauxite, iron ore, coal, hydropower, timber

Land use: arable land:  3%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  7%

forests and woodland:  77%

other:  13% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 100 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: periodic droughts in south; volcanic activity

Environment - current issues: poaching threatens wildlife
populations; water pollution; deforestation; refugees who arrived in
mid-1994 were responsible for significant deforestation, soil
erosion, and wildlife poaching in the eastern part of the country
(most of those refugees were repatriated in November and December
1996)

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous
Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone
Layer Protection, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands

signed, but not ratified:  Environmental Modification

Geography - note: straddles Equator; very narrow strip of land that
controls the lower Congo river and is only outlet to South Atlantic
Ocean; dense tropical rain forest in central river basin and eastern
highlands



Congo, Democratic Republic of the    People

Population: 53,624,718

note:  estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
life expectancy, higher infant mortality and death rates, lower
population and growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  48.24% (male 12,988,488; female
12,878,232)

15-64 years:  49.21% (male 12,931,886; female 13,459,109)

65 years and over:  2.55% (male 575,113; female 791,890) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 3.1% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 46.02 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 15.15 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 0.14 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

note:  one million refugees fled into Zaire (now called the
Democratic Republic of the Congo or DROC) in 1994 to escape the
fighting between the Hutus and the Tutsis; fighting in the DROC
between rebels and government forces in October 1996 caused 875,000
refugees to return to Rwanda in late 1996 and early 1997; an
additional 173,000 Rwandan refugees disappeared in early 1997 and
are assumed to have been killed by Zairian forces; fighting between
the Congolese government and Uganda- and Rwanda-backed Congolese
rebels spawned a regional war in DROC in August 1998, which left 1.8
million Congolese displaced in DROC and caused 300,000 Congolese
refugees to flee to surrounding countries

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.03 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.01 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  0.96 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.73 male(s)/female

total population:  0.98 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 99.88 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  48.94 years

male:  46.96 years

female:  50.98 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 6.84 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 5.07% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 1.1 million (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: 95,000 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Congolese (singular and plural)

adjective:  Congolese or Congo

Ethnic groups: over 200 African ethnic groups of which the majority
are Bantu; the four largest tribes - Mongo, Luba, Kongo (all Bantu),
and the Mangbetu-Azande (Hamitic) make up about 45% of the population

Religions: Roman Catholic 50%, Protestant 20%, Kimbanguist 10%,
Muslim 10%, other syncretic sects and indigenous beliefs 10%

Languages: French (official), Lingala (a lingua franca trade
language), Kingwana (a dialect of Kiswahili or Swahili), Kikongo,
Tshiluba

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write French,
Lingala, Kingwana, or Tshiluba

total population:  77.3%

male:  86.6%

female:  67.7% (1995 est.)



Congo, Democratic Republic of the    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Democratic Republic of the
Congo

conventional short form:  none

local long form:  Republique Democratique du Congo

local short form:  none

former:  Congo Free State, Belgian Congo, Congo/Leopoldville,
Congo/Kinshasa, Zaire

abbreviation:  DROC

Government type: dictatorship; presumably undergoing a transition to
representative government

Capital: Kinshasa

Administrative divisions: 10 provinces (provinces, singular -
province) and one city* (ville); Bandundu, Bas-Congo, Equateur,
Kasai-Occidental, Kasai-Oriental, Katanga, Kinshasa*, Maniema,
Nord-Kivu, Orientale, Sud-Kivu

Independence: 30 June 1960 (from Belgium)

National holiday: Independence Day, 30 June (1960)

Constitution: 24 June 1967, amended August 1974, revised 15 February
1978, amended April 1990; transitional constitution promulgated in
April 1994; in November 1998, a draft constitution was approved by
former President Laurent KABILA but it has not been ratified by a
national referendum

Legal system: based on Belgian civil law system and tribal law; has
not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal and compulsory

Executive branch: chief of state:  Joseph KABILA (since 26 January
2001); note - the president succeeded his father Laurent Desire
KABILA after his assassination on 16 January 2001; as president he
is both chief of state and head of government

head of government:  Joseph KABILA (since 26 January 2001); note -
the president succeeded his father Laurent Desire KABILA after his
assassination on 16 January 2001; as president he is both chief of
state and head of government

cabinet:  National Executive Council, appointed by the president

elections:  before Laurent Desire KABILA seized power, the president
was elected by popular vote for a seven-year term; election last
held 29 July 1984 (next was scheduled to be held in May 1997);
formerly, the prime minister was elected by the High Council of the
Republic; note - elections were not held in 1991 as called for by
the constitution

election results:  results of the last election were: MOBUTU Sese
Seko Kuku Ngbendu wa Za Banga reelected president in 1984 without
opposition

note:  Marshal MOBUTU Sese Seko Kuku Ngbendu wa Za Banga was
president from 24 November 1965 until forced into exile on 16 May
1997 when his government was overthrown militarily by Laurent Desire
KABILA, who immediately assumed governing authority; KABILA pledged
to hold elections by April 1999, but in December 1998 announced that
elections would be postponed until all foreign military forces
attempting to topple the government had withdrawn from the country;
KABILA was assassinated in January 2001 and was succeeded by his son
Joseph KABILA

Legislative branch: a 300-member Transitional Constituent Assembly
established in August 2000

elections:  NA; members of the Transitional Constituent Assembly
were appointed by former President KABILA

Judicial branch: Supreme Court or Cour Supreme

Political parties and leaders: Democratic Social Christian Party or
PDSC [Andre BO-BOLIKO]; Popular Movement of the Revolution or MPR
[leader NA]; Unified Lumumbast Party or PALU [Antoine GIZENGA];
Union for Democracy and Social Progress or UDPS [Etienne TSHISEKEDI
wa Mulumba]; Union of Federalists and Independent Republicans or
UFERI [Kouyoumba MUCHULI Mulembe]

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: ACCT, ACP, AfDB, CCC,
CEEAC, CEPGL, ECA, FAO, G-19, G-24, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU,
ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, Intelsat, Interpol,
IOC, IOM (observer), ISO (correspondent), ITU, NAM, OAU, OPCW, PCA,
SADC, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WFTU, WHO, WIPO,
WMO, WToO, WTrO

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Faida MITIFU

chancery:  1800 New Hampshire Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20009

telephone:  [1] (202) 234-7690, 7691

FAX:  [1] (202) 234-2609

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
William Lacy SWING

embassy:  310 Avenue des Aviateurs, Kinshasa

mailing address:  Unit 31550, APO AE 09828

telephone:  [243] (12) 21804, 21807

FAX:  [243] (88) 43805

Flag description: light blue with a large yellow five-pointed star
in the center and a columnar arrangement of six small yellow
five-pointed stars along the hoist side



Congo, Democratic Republic of the    Economy

Economy - overview: The economy of the Democratic Republic of the
Congo - a nation endowed with vast potential wealth - has declined
drastically since the mid-1980s. The new government instituted a
tight fiscal policy that initially curbed inflation and currency
depreciation, but these small gains were quickly reversed when the
foreign-backed rebellion in the eastern part of the country began in
August 1998. The war has dramatically reduced national output and
government revenue and has increased external debt. Foreign
businesses have curtailed operations due to uncertainty about the
outcome of the conflict and because of increased government
harassment and restrictions. The war has intensified the impact of
such basic problems as an uncertain legal framework, corruption,
raging inflation, and lack of openness in government economic policy
and financial operations. A number of IMF and World Bank missions
have met with the government to help it develop a coherent economic
plan but associated reforms are on hold.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $31 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: -15% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $600 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  58%

industry:  17%

services:  25% (1997 est.)

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 540% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 14.51 million (1993 est.)

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture 65%, industry 16%, services
19% (1991 est.)

Unemployment rate: NA%

Budget: revenues:  $269 million

expenditures:  $244 million, including capital expenditures of $24
million (1996 est.)

Industries: mining (diamonds, copper, zinc), mineral processing,
consumer products (including textiles, footwear, cigarettes,
processed foods and beverages), cement

Industrial production growth rate: NA%

Electricity - production: 5.268 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  2.05%

hydro:  97.95%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 4.55 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 404 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 55 million kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: coffee, sugar, palm oil, rubber, tea,
quinine, cassava (tapioca), palm oil, bananas, root crops, corn,
fruits; wood products

Exports: $960 million (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Exports - commodities: diamonds, copper, coffee, cobalt, crude oil

Exports - partners: Benelux 62%, US 18%, South Africa, Finland,
Italy (1999)

Imports: $660 million (c.i.f., 2000 est.)

Imports - commodities: foodstuffs, mining and other machinery,
transport equipment, fuels

Imports - partners: South Africa 28%, Benelux 14%, Nigeria 9%, Kenya
7%, China (1999)

Debt - external: $13 billion (1998 est.)

Economic aid - recipient: $195.3 million (1995)

Currency: Congolese franc (CDF)

Currency code: CDF

Exchange rates: Congolese francs per US dollar - 50 (January 2001),
4.5 (January 2000), 4.02 (1999), 1.61 (1998), 1.31 (1997), 0.50
(1996)

note:  on 30 June 1998 the Congolese franc was introduced, replacing
the new zaire

Fiscal year: calendar year



Congo, Democratic Republic of the    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 21,000 (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 8,900 (1997)

Telephone system: general assessment:  NA

domestic:  barely adequate wire and microwave radio relay service in
and between urban areas; domestic satellite system with 14 earth
stations

international:  satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 3, FM 12, shortwave 1 (1999)

Radios: 18.03 million (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 20 (1999)

Televisions: 6.478 million (1997)

Internet country code: .cd

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 2 (2000)

Internet users: 1,500 (1999)



Congo, Democratic Republic of the    Transportation

Railways: total:  5,138 km (1995)

note:  severely reduced route-distance in use because of damage to
facilities by civil strife

narrow gauge:  3,987 km 1.067-m gauge (858 km electrified); 125 km
1.000-m gauge; 1,026 km 0.600-m gauge (2000)

Highways: total:  157,000 km (including 30 km of expressways)(1996)

paved:  NA km

unpaved:  NA km

Waterways: 15,000 km (including the Congo and its tributaries, and
unconnected lakes)

Pipelines: petroleum products 390 km

Ports and harbors: Banana, Boma, Bukavu, Bumba, Goma, Kalemie,
Kindu, Kinshasa, Kisangani, Matadi, Mbandaka

Merchant marine: none (2000 est.)

Airports: 232 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  24

over 3,047 m:  4

2,438 to 3,047 m:  3

1,524 to 2,437 m:  15

914 to 1,523 m:  2 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  208

1,524 to 2,437 m:  20

914 to 1,523 m:  96

under 914 m:  92 (2000 est.)



Congo, Democratic Republic of the    Military

Military branches: Army, Navy, Air Force, Special Presidential
Security Group

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  11,615,554 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
5,915,251 (2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $250 million (FY97)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 4.6% (FY97)



Congo, Democratic Republic of the    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: the Democratic Republic of the Congo is in
the grip of a civil war that has drawn in military forces from
neighboring states, with Uganda and Rwanda supporting the rebel
movements that occupy much of the eastern portion of the state; most
of the Congo river boundary with the Republic of the Congo is
indefinite (no agreement has been reached on the division of the
river or its islands, except in the Pool Malebo/Stanley Pool area)

Illicit drugs: illicit producer of cannabis, mostly for domestic
consumption

======================================================================

@Congo, Republic of the




Congo, Republic of the    Introduction

Background: Upon independence in 1960, the former French region of
Middle Congo became the Republic of the Congo. A quarter century of
experimentation with Marxism was abandoned in 1990 and a
democratically elected government installed in 1992. A brief civil
war in 1997 restored former Marxist President SASSOU-NGUESSO.



Congo, Republic of the    Geography

Location: Western Africa, bordering the South Atlantic Ocean,
between Angola and Gabon

Geographic coordinates: 1 00 S, 15 00 E

Map references: Africa

Area: total:  342,000 sq km

land:  341,500 sq km

water:  500 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly smaller than Montana

Land boundaries: total:  5,504 km

border countries:  Angola 201 km, Cameroon 523 km, Central African
Republic 467 km, Democratic Republic of the Congo 2,410 km, Gabon
1,903 km

Coastline: 169 km

Maritime claims: territorial sea:  200 NM

Climate: tropical; rainy season (March to June); dry season (June to
October); constantly high temperatures and humidity; particularly
enervating climate astride the Equator

Terrain: coastal plain, southern basin, central plateau, northern
basin

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Atlantic Ocean 0 m

highest point:  Mount Berongou 903 m

Natural resources: petroleum, timber, potash, lead, zinc, uranium,
copper, phosphates, natural gas, hydropower

Land use: arable land:  0%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  29%

forests and woodland:  62%

other:  9% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 10 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: seasonal flooding

Environment - current issues: air pollution from vehicle emissions;
water pollution from the dumping of raw sewage; tap water is not
potable; deforestation

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species, Ozone Layer
Protection, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands

signed, but not ratified:  Law of the Sea

Geography - note: about 70% of the population lives in Brazzaville,
Pointe-Noire, or along the railroad between them



Congo, Republic of the    People

Population: 2,894,336

note:  estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
life expectancy, higher infant mortality and death rates, lower
population and growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  42.43% (male 618,411; female 609,633)

15-64 years:  54.23% (male 765,501; female 804,125)

65 years and over:  3.34% (male 38,772; female 57,894) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 2.2% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 38.24 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 16.22 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.03 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.01 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  0.95 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.67 male(s)/female

total population:  0.97 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 99.73 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  47.57 years

male:  44.38 years

female:  50.85 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 5 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 6.43% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 86,000 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: 8,600 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Congolese (singular and plural)

adjective:  Congolese or Congo

Ethnic groups: Kongo 48%, Sangha 20%, M'Bochi 12%, Teke 17%,
Europeans NA%; note - Europeans estimated at 8,500, mostly French,
before the 1997 civil war; may be half that of 1998, following the
widespread destruction of foreign businesses in 1997

Religions: Christian 50%, animist 48%, Muslim 2%

Languages: French (official), Lingala and Monokutuba (lingua franca
trade languages), many local languages and dialects (of which
Kikongo has the most users)

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  74.9%

male:  83.1%

female:  67.2% (1995 est.)



Congo, Republic of the    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Republic of the Congo

conventional short form:  none

local long form:  Republique du Congo

local short form:  none

former:  Middle Congo, Congo/Brazzaville, Congo

Government type: republic

Capital: Brazzaville

Administrative divisions: 9 regions (regions, singular - region) and
1 commune*; Bouenza, Brazzaville*, Cuvette, Kouilou, Lekoumou,
Likouala, Niari, Plateaux, Pool, Sangha

Independence: 15 August 1960 (from France)

National holiday: Independence Day, 15 August (1960)

Constitution: Draft constitution approved by transitional parliament
in September 2000

Legal system: based on French civil law system and customary law

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Denis SASSOU-NGUESSO
(since 25 October 1997, following the civil war in which he toppled
elected president Pascal LISSOUBA); note - the president is both the
chief of state and head of government

head of government:  President Denis SASSOU-NGUESSO (since 25
October 1997, following the civil war in which he toppled elected
president Pascal LISSOUBA); note - the president is both the chief
of state and head of government

cabinet:  Council of Ministers appointed by the president

elections:  president elected by popular vote for a five-year term;
election last held 16 August 1992 (next was to be held 27 July 1997
but will be delayed for several years pending the drafting of a new
constitution)

election results:  Pascal LISSOUBA elected president in 1992;
percent of vote - Pascal LISSOUBA 61.3%, Bernard KOLELAS 38.7%; note
- LISSOUBA was deposed in 1997, replaced by Denis SASSOU-NGUESSO

Legislative branch: unicameral National Transitional Council (75
seats, members elected by reconciliation forum of 1,420 delegates on
NA January 1998); note - the National Transitional Council replaced
the bicameral Parliament

elections:  National Transitional Council - last held NA January
1998 (next to be held NA 2001); note - at that election the National
Transitional Council is to be replaced by a bicameral assembly

election results:  National Transitional Council - percent of vote
by party - NA%; seats by party - NA

Judicial branch: Supreme Court or Cour Supreme

Political parties and leaders: the most important of the many
parties are the Democratic and Patriotic Forces or FDP (an alliance
of Convention for Alternative Democracy, Congolese Labor Party or
PCT, Liberal Republican Party, National Union for Democracy and
Progress, Patriotic Union for the National Reconstruction, and Union
for the National Renewal) [Denis SASSOU-NGUESSO, president];
Association for Democracy and Social Progress or RDPS [Jean-Pierre
Thystere TCHICAYA, president]; Congolese Movement for Democracy and
Integral Development or MCDDI [Michel MAMPOUYA]; Pan-African Union
for Social Development or UPADS [Martin MBERI]; Union of Democratic
Forces or UFD [Sebastian EBAO]

Political pressure groups and leaders: Congolese Trade Union
Congress or CSC; General Union of Congolese Pupils and Students or
UGEEC; Revolutionary Union of Congolese Women or URFC; Union of
Congolese Socialist Youth or UJSC

International organization participation: ACCT, ACP, AfDB, BDEAC,
CCC, CEEAC, CEMAC, ECA, FAO, FZ, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA,
IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM
(observer), ITU, NAM, OAU, OPCW, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU,
WCL, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  (vacant);
Charge d'Affaires ad interim Serge MOMBOULI

chancery:  4891 Colorado Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20011

telephone:  [1] (202) 726-5500

FAX:  [1] (202) 726-1860

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
David H. KAEUPER

embassy:  NA

mailing address:  NA

telephone:  [243] (88) 43608

FAX:  [243] (88) 41036

note:  the embassy is temporarily collocated with the US Embassy in
the Democratic Republic of the Congo (US Embassy Kinshasa, 310
Avenue des Aviateurs, Kinshasa)

Flag description: divided diagonally from the lower hoist side by a
yellow band; the upper triangle (hoist side) is green and the lower
triangle is red; uses the popular pan-African colors of Ethiopia



Congo, Republic of the    Economy

Economy - overview: The economy is a mixture of village agriculture
and handicrafts, an industrial sector based largely on oil, support
services, and a government characterized by budget problems and
overstaffing. Oil has supplanted forestry as the mainstay of the
economy, providing a major share of government revenues and exports.
In the early 1980s, rapidly rising oil revenues enabled the
government to finance large-scale development projects with GDP
growth averaging 5% annually, one of the highest rates in Africa.
Moreover, the government has mortgaged a substantial portion of its
oil earnings, contributing to the government's shortage of revenues.
The 12 January 1994 devaluation of Franc Zone currencies by 50%
resulted in inflation of 61% in 1994, but inflation has subsided
since. Economic reform efforts continued with the support of
international organizations, notably the World Bank and the IMF. The
reform program came to a halt in June 1997 when civil war erupted.
Denis SASSOU-NGUESSO, who returned to power when the war ended in
October 1997, publicly expressed interest in moving forward on
economic reforms and privatization and in renewing cooperation with
international financial institutions. However, economic progress was
badly hurt by slumping oil prices and the resumption of armed
conflict in December 1998, which worsened the Republic of the
Congo's budget deficit. Even with the IMF's renewed confidence and
high world oil prices, Congo is unlikely to realize growth of more
than 5% in 2001-02. With the return to fragile peace, the IMF
approved a $14 million credit in November 2000 to aid post-conflict
reconstruction.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $3.1 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 3.8% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $1,100 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  10%

industry:  48%

services:  42% (1999 est.)

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 3.5% (2000 est.)

Labor force: NA

Unemployment rate: NA%

Budget: revenues:  $870 million

expenditures:  $970 million, including capital expenditures of $NA
(1997 est.)

Industries: petroleum extraction, cement kilning, lumbering,
brewing, sugar milling, palm oil, soap, flour, cigarette making

Industrial production growth rate: NA%

Electricity - production: 302 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  0.66%

hydro:  99.34%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 406.9 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 126 million kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: cassava (tapioca), sugar, rice, corn,
peanuts, vegetables, coffee, cocoa; forest products

Exports: $2.6 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Exports - commodities: petroleum 50%, lumber, plywood, sugar, cocoa,
coffee, diamonds

Exports - partners: US 23%, Benelux 14%, Germany, Italy, Taiwan,
China (1998)

Imports: $870 million (f.o.b., 2000)

Imports - commodities: petroleum products, capital equipment,
construction materials, foodstuffs

Imports - partners: France 23%, US 9%, Belgium 8%, UK 7%, Italy
(1997 est.)

Debt - external: $5 billion (1999 est.)

Economic aid - recipient: $159.1 million (1995)

Currency: Communaute Financiere Africaine franc (XAF); note -
responsible authority is the Bank of the Central African States

Currency code: XAF

Exchange rates: Communaute Financiere Africaine francs (XAF) per US
dollar - 699.21 (January 2001), 711.98 (2000), 615.70 (1999), 589.95
(1998), 583.67 (1997), 511.55 (1996); note - from 1 January 1999,
the XAF is pegged to the euro at a rate of 655.957 XAF per euro

Fiscal year: calendar year



Congo, Republic of the    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 22,000 (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 1,000 (1996)

Telephone system: general assessment:  services barely adequate for
government use; key exchanges are in Brazzaville, Pointe-Noire, and
Loubomo; intercity lines frequently out-of-order

domestic:  primary network consists of microwave radio relay and
coaxial cable

international:  satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 1, FM 5, shortwave 1 (1999)

Radios: 341,000 (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 1 (1999)

Televisions: 33,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .cg

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 1 (2000)

Internet users: 500 (2000)



Congo, Republic of the    Transportation

Railways: total:  894 km

narrow gauge:  894 km 1.067-m gauge (2000)

Highways: total:  12,800 km

paved:  1,242 km

unpaved:  11,558 km (1996)

Waterways: 1,120 km

note:  the Congo and Ubangi (Oubangui) rivers provide 1,120 km of
commercially navigable water transport; other rivers are used for
local traffic only

Pipelines: crude oil 25 km

Ports and harbors: Brazzaville, Impfondo, Ouesso, Oyo, Pointe-Noire

Airports: 33 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  4

over 3,047 m:  1

1,524 to 2,437 m:  3 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  29

1,524 to 2,437 m:  7

914 to 1,523 m:  12

under 914 m:  10 (2000 est.)



Congo, Republic of the    Military

Military branches: Army, Air Force, Navy, Gendarmerie

Military manpower - military age: 20 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  684,922 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
347,946 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  32,350
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $110 million (FY93)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 3.8% (FY93)



Congo, Republic of the    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: most of the Congo river boundary with the
Democratic Republic of the Congo is indefinite (no agreement has
been reached on the division of the river or its islands, except in
the Stanley Pool/Pool Malebo area)

======================================================================

@Cook Islands





Cook Islands    Introduction

Background: Named after Captain Cook, who sighted them in 1770, the
islands became a British protectorate in 1888. By 1900,
administrative control was transferred to New Zealand; in 1965
residents chose self-government in free association with New
Zealand. The emigration of skilled workers to New Zealand and
government deficits are continuing problems.



Cook Islands    Geography

Location: Oceania, group of islands in the South Pacific Ocean,
about one-half of the way from Hawaii to New Zealand

Geographic coordinates: 21 14 S, 159 46 W

Map references: Oceania

Area: total:  240 sq km

land:  240 sq km

water:  0 sq km

Area - comparative: 1.3 times the size of Washington, DC

Land boundaries: 0 km

Coastline: 120 km

Maritime claims: continental shelf:  200 NM or to the edge of the
continental margin

exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: tropical; moderated by trade winds

Terrain: low coral atolls in north; volcanic, hilly islands in south

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Pacific Ocean 0 m

highest point:  Te Manga 652 m

Natural resources: NEGL

Land use: arable land:  9%

permanent crops:  13%

permanent pastures:  0%

forests and woodland:  0%

other:  78% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: NA sq km

Natural hazards: typhoons (November to March)

Environment - current issues: NA

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Desertification, Law of the Sea

signed, but not ratified:  Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol



Cook Islands    People

Population: 20,611 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  NA%

15-64 years:  NA%

65 years and over:  NA%

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: NA%

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: NA

HIV/AIDS - deaths: NA

Nationality: noun:  Cook Islander(s)

adjective:  Cook Islander

Ethnic groups: Polynesian (full blood) 81.3%, Polynesian and
European 7.7%, Polynesian and non-European 7.7%, European 2.4%,
other 0.9%

Religions: Christian (majority of populace are members of the Cook
Islands Christian Church)

Languages: English (official), Maori

Literacy: definition:  NA

total population:  95%

male:  NA%

female:  NA%



Cook Islands    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  none

conventional short form:  Cook Islands

former:  Harvey Islands

Dependency status: self-governing in free association with New
Zealand; Cook Islands is fully responsible for internal affairs; New
Zealand retains responsibility for external affairs, in consultation
with the Cook Islands

Government type: self-governing parliamentary democracy

Capital: Avarua

Administrative divisions: none

Independence: none (became self-governing in free association with
New Zealand on 4 August 1965 and has the right at any time to move
to full independence by unilateral action)

National holiday: Constitution Day, first Monday in August (1965)

Constitution: 4 August 1965

Legal system: based on New Zealand law and English common law

Suffrage: NA years of age; universal adult

Executive branch: chief of state:  Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6
February 1952), represented by Apenera SHORT (since NA); New Zealand
High Commissioner Jon JONESSEN (since NA January 1998),
representative of New Zealand

head of government:  Prime Minister Dr. Terepai MAOATE (since 18
November 1999); Deputy Prime Minister Norman GEORGE (since NA)

cabinet:  Cabinet chosen by the prime minister; collectively
responsible to Parliament

elections:  none; the monarch is hereditary; the UK representative
is appointed by the monarch; the New Zealand high commissioner is
appointed by the New Zealand Government; following legislative
elections, the leader of the party that wins the most seats usually
becomes prime minister

note:  ten years of rule by the Cook Islands Party (CIP) came to an
end 18 November 1999 with the resignation of Prime Minister Joe
WILLIAMS; WILLIAMS had led a minority government since October 1999
when the New Alliance Party (NAP) left the government coalition and
joined the main opposition Democratic Alliance Party (DAP); on 18
November 1999, DAP leader Dr. Terepai MAOATE was sworn in as prime
minister

Legislative branch: unicameral Parliament (25 seats; members elected
by popular vote to serve five-year terms)

elections:  last held NA June 1999 (next to be held by NA 2004)

election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
CIP 12, DAP 12, NAP 1

note:  the House of Ariki (chiefs) advises on traditional matters,
but has no legislative powers

Judicial branch: High Court

Political parties and leaders: Cook Islands People's Party or CIP
[Tai CARPENTER]; Democratic Alliance Party or DAP [Terepai MAOATE];
New Alliance Party or NAP [Norman GEORGE]

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: ACP, AsDB, ESCAP
(associate), FAO, ICAO, ICFTU, IFAD, Intelsat (nonsignatory user),
IOC, OPCW, Sparteca, SPC, SPF, UNESCO, WHO, WMO

Diplomatic representation in the US: none (self-governing in free
association with New Zealand)

Diplomatic representation from the US: none (self-governing in free
association with New Zealand)

Flag description: blue, with the flag of the UK in the upper
hoist-side quadrant and a large circle of 15 white five-pointed
stars (one for every island) centered in the outer half of the flag



Cook Islands    Economy

Economy - overview: Like many other South Pacific island nations,
the Cook Islands' economic development is hindered by the isolation
of the country from foreign markets, the limited size of domestic
markets, lack of natural resources, periodic devastation from
natural disasters, and inadequate infrastructure. Agriculture
provides the economic base with major exports made up of copra and
citrus fruit. Manufacturing activities are limited to fruit
processing, clothing, and handicrafts. Trade deficits are made up
for by remittances from emigrants and by foreign aid, overwhelmingly
from New Zealand. In the 1980s and 1990s, the country lived beyond
its means, maintaining a bloated public service and accumulating a
large foreign debt. Subsequent reforms, including the sale of state
assets, the strengthening of economic management, the encouragement
of tourism, and a debt restructuring agreement, have rekindled
investment and growth.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $100 million (1999 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: NA%

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $5,000 (1999 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  18%

industry:  9%

services:  73% (1995)

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 1.6% (1999 est.)

Labor force: 6,601 (1993)

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture 29%, industry 15%, services
56% (1995) note - shortage of skilled labor

Unemployment rate: NA%

Budget: revenues:  $25 million

expenditures:  $23 million, including capital expenditures of $NA
(FY 99/00)

Industries: fruit processing, tourism, fishing

Industrial production growth rate: NA%

Electricity - production: 21 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  100%

hydro:  0%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 19.5 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: copra, citrus, pineapples, tomatoes, beans,
pawpaws, bananas, yams, taro, coffee; pigs, poultry

Exports: $3 million (f.o.b., 1999 est.)

Exports - commodities: copra, papayas, fresh and canned citrus
fruit, coffee; fish; pearls and pearl shells; clothing

Exports - partners: Japan 42%, New Zealand 25%, US 9%, Australia 9%
(1999)

Imports: $85 million (c.i.f., 1994)

Imports - commodities: foodstuffs, textiles, fuels, timber, capital
goods

Imports - partners: NZ 70%, Australia 8% (1999)

Debt - external: $141 million (1996 est.)

Economic aid - recipient: $13.1 million (1995); note - New Zealand
continues to furnish the greater part

Currency: New Zealand dollar (NZD)

Currency code: NZD

Exchange rates: New Zealand dollars per US dollar - 2.2502 (January
2001), 2.1863 (2000), 1.8886 (1999), 1.8632 (1998), 1.5083 (1997),
1.4543 (1996)

Fiscal year: 1 April - 31 March



Cook Islands    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 5,000 (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 0 (1994)

Telephone system: general assessment:  NA

domestic:  the individual islands are connected by a combination of
satellite earth stations, microwave systems, and VHF and HF
radiotelephone; within the islands, service is provided by small
exchanges connected to subscribers by open wire, cable, and
fiber-optic cable

international:  satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (Pacific Ocean)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 1, FM 2, shortwave 0 (1998)

Radios: 14,000 (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 2 (plus eight low-power repeaters)
(1997)

Televisions: 4,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .ck

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 3 (2000)

Internet users: NA



Cook Islands    Transportation

Railways: 0 km

Highways: total:  320 km (1992)

paved:  NA

unpaved:  NA

Waterways: none

Ports and harbors: Avarua, Avatiu

Merchant marine: total:  1 ship (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 2,310
GRT/2,181 DWT

ships by type:  cargo 1 (2000 est.)

Airports: 7 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  1

1,524 to 2,437 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  6

1,524 to 2,437 m:  3

914 to 1,523 m:  3 (2000 est.)



Cook Islands    Military

Military - note: defense is the responsibility of New Zealand, in
consultation with the Cook Islands and at its request



Cook Islands    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

======================================================================

@Coral Sea Islands





Coral Sea Islands    Introduction

Background: Scattered over some 1 million square kilometers of
ocean, the Coral Sea Islands were declared a territory of Australia
in 1969. They are uninhabited except for a small meteorological
staff on Willis Island. Automated weather stations, beacons, and a
lighthouse occupy many other islands and reefs.



Coral Sea Islands    Geography

Location: Oceania, islands in the Coral Sea, northeast of Australia

Geographic coordinates: 18 00 S, 152 00 E

Map references: Oceania

Area: total:  less than 3 sq km

land:  less than 3 sq km

water:  0 sq km

note:  includes numerous small islands and reefs scattered over a
sea area of about 1 million sq km, with the Willis Islets the most
important

Area - comparative: NA

Land boundaries: 0 km

Coastline: 3,095 km

Maritime claims: exclusive fishing zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  3 NM

Climate: tropical

Terrain: sand and coral reefs and islands (or cays)

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Pacific Ocean 0 m

highest point:  unnamed location on Cato Island 6 m

Natural resources: NEGL

Land use: arable land:  0%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  0%

forests and woodland:  0%

other:  100% (mostly grass or scrub cover)

Irrigated land: 0 sq km (1993)

Natural hazards: occasional tropical cyclones

Environment - current issues: no permanent fresh water resources

Geography - note: important nesting area for birds and turtles



Coral Sea Islands    People

Population: no indigenous inhabitants

note:  there is a staff of three to four at the meteorological
station (July 2001 est.)



Coral Sea Islands    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Coral Sea Islands Territory

conventional short form:  Coral Sea Islands

Dependency status: territory of Australia; administered from
Canberra by the Department of the Environment, Sport, and Territories

Legal system: the laws of Australia, where applicable, apply

Executive branch: administered from Canberra by the Department of
the Environment, Sport, and Territories

Diplomatic representation in the US: none (territory of Australia)

Diplomatic representation from the US: none (territory of Australia)

Flag description: the flag of Australia is used



Coral Sea Islands    Economy

Economy - overview: no economic activity



Coral Sea Islands    Communications

Communications - note: there are automatic weather stations on many
of the isles and reefs relaying data to the mainland



Coral Sea Islands    Transportation

Waterways: none

Ports and harbors: none; offshore anchorage only



Coral Sea Islands    Military

Military - note: defense is the responsibility of Australia; visited
regularly by the Royal Australian Navy; Australia has control over
the activities of visitors



Coral Sea Islands    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

======================================================================

@Costa Rica




Costa Rica    Introduction

Background: Costa Rica is a Central American success story: since
the late 19th century, only two brief periods of violence have
marred its democratic development. Although still a largely
agricultural country, it has achieved a relatively high standard of
living. Land ownership is widespread. Tourism is a rapidly expanding
industry.



Costa Rica    Geography

Location: Middle America, bordering both the Caribbean Sea and the
North Pacific Ocean, between Nicaragua and Panama

Geographic coordinates: 10 00 N, 84 00 W

Map references: Central America and the Caribbean

Area: total:  51,100 sq km

land:  50,660 sq km

water:  440 sq km

note:  includes Isla del Coco

Area - comparative: slightly smaller than West Virginia

Land boundaries: total:  639 km

border countries:  Nicaragua 309 km, Panama 330 km

Coastline: 1,290 km

Maritime claims: exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: tropical and subtropical; dry season (December to April);
rainy season (May to November); cooler in highlands

Terrain: coastal plains separated by rugged mountains

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Pacific Ocean 0 m

highest point:  Cerro Chirripo 3,810 m

Natural resources: hydropower

Land use: arable land:  6%

permanent crops:  5%

permanent pastures:  46%

forests and woodland:  31%

other:  12% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 1,200 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: occasional earthquakes, hurricanes along Atlantic
coast; frequent flooding of lowlands at onset of rainy season and
landslides; active volcanoes

Environment - current issues: deforestation and land use change,
largely a result of the clearing of land for cattle ranching and
agriculture; soil erosion; water pollution (rivers); coastal marine
pollution; wetlands degradation; fisheries protection; solid waste
management; air pollution

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental
Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping,
Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands, Whaling

signed, but not ratified:  Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Marine
Life Conservation



Costa Rica    People

Population: 3,773,057 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  31.38% (male 605,728; female 578,128)

15-64 years:  63.37% (male 1,209,084; female 1,181,754)

65 years and over:  5.25% (male 92,314; female 106,049) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 1.65% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 20.27 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 4.3 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 0.53 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1.02 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.87 male(s)/female

total population:  1.02 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 11.18 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  76.02 years

male:  73.49 years

female:  78.68 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 2.47 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 0.54% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 12,000 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: 750 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Costa Rican(s)

adjective:  Costa Rican

Ethnic groups: white (including mestizo) 94%, black 3%, Amerindian
1%, Chinese 1%, other 1%

Religions: Roman Catholic 76.3%, Evangelical 13.7%, other Protestant
0.7%, Jehovah's Witnesses 1.3%, other 4.8%, none 3.2%

Languages: Spanish (official), English spoken around Puerto Limon

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  94.8%

male:  94.7%

female:  95% (1995 est.)



Costa Rica    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Republic of Costa Rica

conventional short form:  Costa Rica

local long form:  Republica de Costa Rica

local short form:  Costa Rica

Government type: democratic republic

Capital: San Jose

Administrative divisions: 7 provinces (provincias, singular -
provincia); Alajuela, Cartago, Guanacaste, Heredia, Limon,
Puntarenas, San Jose

Independence: 15 September 1821 (from Spain)

National holiday: Independence Day, 15 September (1821)

Constitution: 7 November 1949

Legal system: based on Spanish civil law system; judicial review of
legislative acts in the Supreme Court; has accepted compulsory ICJ
jurisdiction

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal and compulsory

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Miguel Angel RODRIGUEZ
(since 8 May 1998); First Vice President Astrid FISCHEL Volio (since
8 May 1998), Second Vice President Elizabeth ODIO Benito (since 8
May 1998); note - president is both the chief of state and head of
government

head of government:  President Miguel Angel RODRIGUEZ (since 8 May
1998); First Vice President Astrid FISCHEL Volio (since 8 May 1998),
Second Vice President Elizabeth ODIO Benito (since 8 May 1998); note
- president is both the chief of state and head of government

cabinet:  Cabinet selected by the president

elections:  president and vice presidents elected on the same ticket
by popular vote for four-year terms; election last held 1 February
1998 (next to be held 3 February 2002)

election results:  Miguel Angel RODRIGUEZ elected president; percent
of vote - Miguel Angel RODRIGUEZ (PUSC) 46.6%, Jose Miguel CORRALES
(PLN) 44.6%

Legislative branch: unicameral Legislative Assembly or Asamblea
Legislativa (57 seats; members are elected by direct, popular vote
to serve four-year terms)

elections:  last held 1 February 1998 (next to be held 3 February
2002)

election results:  percent of vote by party - PUSC 41%, PLN 35%,
minority parties 24%; seats by party - PUSC 27, PLN 23, minority
parties 7

Judicial branch: Supreme Court or Corte Suprema (22 justices are
elected for eight-year terms by the Legislative Assembly)

Political parties and leaders: Agricultural Labor Action or PALA
[Carlos Alberto SOLIS Blanco]; Costa Rican Renovation Party or PRC
[Justo OROZCO]; Democratic Force Party or PFD [Jose M. NUNEZ];
Libertarian Movement Party or PML [Otto GUEVARA Guth]; National
Christian Alliance Party or ANC [Alejandro MADRIGAL]; National
Independent Party or PNI [Jorge GONZALEZ Marten]; National
Integration Party or PIN [Walter MUNOZ Cespedes]; National
Liberation Party or PLN [Sonia PICADO]; Social Christian Unity Party
or PUSC [Luis Manuel CHACON]

note:  mainly a two-party system - PUSC and PLN; numerous small
parties share less than 25% of population's support

Political pressure groups and leaders: Authentic Confederation of
Democratic Workers or CATD (Communist Party affiliate); Chamber of
Coffee Growers; Confederated Union of Workers or CUT (Communist
Party affiliate); Costa Rican Confederation of Democratic Workers or
CCTD (Liberation Party affiliate); Federation of Public Service
Workers or FTSP; National Association for Economic Development or
ANFE; National Association of Educators or ANDE; Rerum Novarum or
CTRN (PLN affiliate) [Gilbert Brown]

International organization participation: BCIE, CACM, ECLAC, FAO,
G-77, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS,
ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO, ITU,
LAES, LAIA (observer), NAM (observer), OAS, OPANAL, OPCW, PCA, UN,
UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNU, UPU, WCL, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO,
WTrO

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Jaime DAREMBLUM Rosenstein

chancery:  2114 S Street NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone:  [1] (202) 234-2945

FAX:  [1] (202) 265-4795

consulate(s) general:  Atlanta, Boston, Chicago, Denver, Houston,
Los Angeles, Miami, New Orleans, New York, Phoenix, San Antonio, San
Francisco, St. Paul, and Tampa

consulate(s):  Austin

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Thomas J. DODD

embassy:  Calle 120 Avenida O, Pavas, San Jose

mailing address:  APO AA 34020

telephone:  [506] 220-3939

FAX:  [506] 220-2305

Flag description: five horizontal bands of blue (top), white, red
(double width), white, and blue, with the coat of arms in a white
disk on the hoist side of the red band



Costa Rica    Economy

Economy - overview: Costa Rica's basically stable economy depends on
tourism, agriculture, and electronics exports. Poverty has been
substantially reduced over the past 15 years, and a strong social
safety net has been put into place. Foreign investors remain
attracted by the country's political stability and high education
levels, and tourism continues to bring in foreign exchange. However,
traditional export sectors have not kept pace. Low coffee prices and
an overabundance of bananas have hurt the agricultural sector. The
government continues to grapple with its large deficit and massive
internal debt and with the need to modernize the state-owned
electricity and telecommunications sector.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $25 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 3% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $6,700 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  12.5%

industry:  30.7%

services:  56.8% (1999)

Population below poverty line: 20.6% (1999 est.)

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:
1.3%

highest 10%:  34.7% (1996)

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 11% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 1.9 million (1999)

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture 20%, industry 22%, services
58% (1999 est.)

Unemployment rate: 5.2% (2000 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $1.95 billion

expenditures:  $2.4 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
(2000 est.)

Industries: microprocessors, food processing, textiles and clothing,
construction materials, fertilizer, plastic products

Industrial production growth rate: 4.3% (2000)

Electricity - production: 5.805 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  2.41%

hydro:  83.32%

nuclear:  0%

other:  14.27% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 5.303 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 165 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 69 million kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: coffee, pineapples, bananas, sugar, corn,
rice, beans, potatoes; beef; timber

Exports: $6.1 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Exports - commodities: coffee, bananas, sugar; pineapples; textiles,
electronic components, medical equipment

Exports - partners: US 54.1%, EU 21.3%, Central America 8.6% (1999)

Imports: $5.9 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Imports - commodities: raw materials, consumer goods, capital
equipment, petroleum

Imports - partners: US 56.4%, EU 9%, Mexico 5.4%, Japan 4.7%, (1999)

Debt - external: $4.2 billion (2000 est.)

Currency: Costa Rican colon (CRC)

Currency code: CRC

Exchange rates: Costa Rican colones per US dollar - 318.95 (2001),
308.19 (2000), 285.68 (1999), 257.23 (1998), 232.60 (1997), 207.69
(1996)

Fiscal year: calendar year



Costa Rica    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 450,000 (1998)

note:  584,000 installed in 1997, but only about 450,000 were in use
1998

Telephones - mobile cellular: 143,000 (2000)

Telephone system: general assessment:  very good domestic telephone
service

domestic:  point-to-point and point-to-multi-point microwave,
fiber-optic, and coaxial cable link rural areas; Internet service is
available

international:  connected to Central American Microwave System;
satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean); two
submarine cables (1999)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 50, FM 43, shortwave 19 (1998)

Radios: 980,000 (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 6 (plus 11 repeaters) (1997)

Televisions: 525,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .cr

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 3 (of which only one is legal)
(2000)

Internet users: 150,000 (2000)



Costa Rica    Transportation

Railways: total:  950 km

narrow gauge:  950 km 1.067-m gauge (260 km electrified) (2000)

Highways: total:  37,273 km

paved:  7,827 km

unpaved:  29,446 km (1998 est.)

Waterways: 730 km (seasonally navigable)

Pipelines: petroleum products 176 km

Ports and harbors: Caldera, Golfito, Moin, Puerto Limon, Puerto
Quepos, Puntarenas

Merchant marine: total:  1 ship (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 1,716
GRT/NA DWT

ships by type:  passenger 1 (2000 est.)

Airports: 152 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  29

2,438 to 3,047 m:  2

1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

914 to 1,523 m:  19

under 914 m:  7 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  123

914 to 1,523 m:  28

under 914 m:  95 (2000 est.)



Costa Rica    Military

Military branches: Coast Guard, Air Section, Ministry of Public
Security Force (Fuerza Publica)

note:  Costa Rica has no military, only domestic police forces,
including the Coast Guard and Air Section

Military manpower - military age: 18 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  1,035,090 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
692,973 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  39,411
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $69 million (FY99)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 1.6% (FY99)



Costa Rica    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: legal dispute over navigational rights of
Rio San Juan on border with Nicaragua

Illicit drugs: transshipment country for cocaine and heroin from
South America; illicit production of cannabis on small, scattered
plots; domestic cocaine consumption is rising, particularly crack
cocaine; those who previously only trafficked are now becoming users

======================================================================

@Cote d'Ivoire




Cote d'Ivoire    Introduction

Background: Close ties to France since independence in 1960, the
development of cocoa production for export, and foreign investment
made Cote d'Ivoire one of the most prosperous of the tropical
African states. Falling cocoa prices and political turmoil, however,
sparked an economic downturn in 1999 and 2000. On 25 December 1999,
a military coup - the first ever in Cote d'Ivoire's history -
overthrew the government led by President Henri Konan BEDIE.
Presidential and legislative elections held in October and December
2000 provoked violence due to the exclusion of opposition leader
Alassane OUATTARA. In October 2000, Laurent GBAGBO replaced junta
leader Robert GUEI as president, ending 10 months of military rule.



Cote d'Ivoire    Geography

Location: Western Africa, bordering the North Atlantic Ocean,
between Ghana and Liberia

Geographic coordinates: 8 00 N, 5 00 W

Map references: Africa

Area: total:  322,460 sq km

land:  318,000 sq km

water:  4,460 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly larger than New Mexico

Land boundaries: total:  3,110 km

border countries:  Burkina Faso 584 km, Ghana 668 km, Guinea 610 km,
Liberia 716 km, Mali 532 km

Coastline: 515 km

Maritime claims: continental shelf:  200 NM

exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: tropical along coast, semiarid in far north; three seasons
- warm and dry (November to March), hot and dry (March to May), hot
and wet (June to October)

Terrain: mostly flat to undulating plains; mountains in northwest

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Gulf of Guinea 0 m

highest point:  Mont Nimba 1,752 m

Natural resources: petroleum, natural gas, diamonds, manganese, iron
ore, cobalt, bauxite, copper, hydropower

Land use: arable land:  8%

permanent crops:  4%

permanent pastures:  41%

forests and woodland:  22%

other:  25% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 680 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: coast has heavy surf and no natural harbors; during
the rainy season torrential flooding is possible

Environment - current issues: deforestation (most of the country's
forests - once the largest in West Africa - have been heavily
logged); water pollution from sewage and industrial and agricultural
effluents

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous
Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone
Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical
Timber 94, Wetlands

signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements



Cote d'Ivoire    People

Population: 16,393,221

note:  estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
life expectancy, higher infant mortality and death rates, lower
population and growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  46.21% (male 3,802,397; female 3,773,455)

15-64 years:  51.57% (male 4,343,518; female 4,110,805)

65 years and over:  2.22% (male 180,463; female 182,583) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 2.51% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 40.38 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 16.65 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 1.4 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

note:  after Liberia's civil war started in 1990, more than 350,000
refugees fled to Cote d'Ivoire; by the end of 1999 most Liberian
refugees were assumed to have returned

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.03 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.01 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1.06 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.99 male(s)/female

total population:  1.03 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 93.65 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  44.93 years

male:  43.58 years

female:  46.33 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 5.7 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 10.76% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 760,000 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: 72,000 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Ivorian(s)

adjective:  Ivorian

Ethnic groups: Akan 42.1%, Voltaiques or Gur 17.6%, Northern Mandes
16.5%, Krous 11%, Southern Mandes 10%, other 2.8% (1998)

Religions: Christian 34%, Muslim 27%, no religion 21%, animist 15%,
other 3% (1998)

note:  the majority of foreigners (migratory workers) are Muslim
(70%) and Christian (20%)

Languages: French (official), 60 native dialects with Dioula the
most widely spoken

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  48.5%

male:  57%

female:  40%



Cote d'Ivoire    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Republic of Cote d'Ivoire

conventional short form:  Cote d'Ivoire

local long form:  Republique de Cote d'Ivoire

local short form:  Cote d'Ivoire

former:  Ivory Coast

Government type: republic; multiparty presidential regime
established 1960

Capital: Yamoussoukro; note - although Yamoussoukro has been the
official capital since 1983, Abidjan remains the administrative
center; the US, like other countries, maintains its Embassy in
Abidjan

Administrative divisions: 50 departments (departements, singular -
departement); Abengourou, Abidjan, Aboisso, Adzope, Agboville,
Agnibilekrou, Bangolo, Beoumi, Biankouma, Bondoukou, Bongouanou,
Bouafle, Bouake, Bouna, Boundiali, Dabakala, Daloa, Danane, Daoukro,
Dimbokro, Divo, Duekoue, Ferkessedougou, Gagnoa, Grand-Lahou,
Guiglo, Issia, Katiola, Korhogo, Lakota, Man, Mankono, Mbahiakro,
Odienne, Oume, Sakassou, San-Pedro, Sassandra, Seguela, Sinfra,
Soubre, Tabou, Tanda, Tingrela, Tiassale, Touba, Toumodi, Vavoua,
Yamoussoukro, Zuenoula

note:  Cote d'Ivoire may have a new administrative structure
consisting of 58 departments; the following additional departments
have been reported but not yet confirmed by the US Board on
Geographic Names (BGN); Adiake', Ale'pe', Dabon, Grand Bassam,
Jacqueville, Tiebissou, Toulepleu, Bocanda

Independence: 7 August (1960) (from France)

National holiday: Independence Day, 7 August (1960)

Constitution: 3 November 1960; has been amended numerous times, last
time 27 July 1998

Legal system: based on French civil law system and customary law;
judicial review in the Constitutional Chamber of the Supreme Court;
has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Laurent GBAGBO (since
26 October 2000); note - took power following a popular overthrow of
the interim leader Gen. Robert GUEI who had claimed a dubious
victory in presidential elections; Gen. GUEI himself had assumed
power on 25 December 1999, following a military coup against the
government of former President Henri Konan BEDIE

head of government:  Prime Minister and Minister of Planning and
Development Affi N'GUESSAN (since 27 October 2000) appointed by the
president

cabinet:  Council of Ministers appointed by the president

elections:  president elected by popular vote for a five-year term;
election last held 26 October 2000 (next is scheduled to be held NA
2005); prime minister appointed by the president

election results:  Laurent GBAGBO elected president; percent of vote
- Laurent GBAGBO 59.4%, Robert GUEI 32.7%, Francis WODIE 5.7%, other
2.2%

Legislative branch: unicameral National Assembly or Assemblee
Nationale (225 seats; members are elected in single- and
multi-district elections by direct popular vote to serve five-year
terms)

elections:  elections last held 10 December 2000 with by-elections
on 14 January 2001 (next to be held NA 2005)

election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
FPI 96, PDCI-RDA 94, RDR 5, PIT 4, other 2, independents 22, vacant 2

note:  a Senate is scheduled to be created in the next full election
in 2005

Judicial branch: Supreme Court or Cour Supreme consists of four
chambers: Judicial Chamber for criminal cases, Audit Chamber for
financial cases, Constitutional Chamber for judicial review cases,
and Administrative Chamber for civil cases; there is no legal limit
to the number of members

Political parties and leaders: Democratic Party of Cote
d'Ivoire-African Democratic Rally or PDCI-RDA [Aime Henri Konan
BEDIE]; Ivorian Popular Front or FPI [Laurent GBAGBO]; Ivorian
Worker's Party or PIT [Francis WODIE]; Rally of the Republicans or
RDR [Henriette DAGRI-DIABATE]; Union for Democracy and Peace [Gen.
Robert GUEI]; over 20 smaller parties

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: ACP, AfDB, CCC, ECA,
ECOWAS, Entente, FAO, FZ, G-24, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU,
ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC,
IOM, ISO (correspondent), ITU, NAM, OAU, OIC (observer), OPCW, UN,
UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UPU, WADB, WADB (regional), WAEMU,
WCL, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Youssouf BAMBA

chancery:  3421 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20007

telephone:  [1] (202) 797-0300

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
George MU

embassy:  5 Rue Jesse Owens, Abidjan

mailing address:  B. P. 1712, Abidjan 01

telephone:  [225] 20 21 09 79

FAX:  [225] 20 22 32 59

Flag description: three equal vertical bands of orange (hoist side),
white, and green; similar to the flag of Ireland, which is longer
and has the colors reversed - green (hoist side), white, and orange;
also similar to the flag of Italy, which is green (hoist side),
white, and red; design was based on the flag of France



Cote d'Ivoire    Economy

Economy - overview: Cote d'Ivoire is among the world's largest
producers and exporters of coffee, cocoa beans, and palm oil.
Consequently, the economy is highly sensitive to fluctuations in
international prices for these products and to weather conditions.
Despite government attempts to diversify the economy, it is still
largely dependent on agriculture and related activities, which
engage roughly 68% of the population. After several years of lagging
performance, the Ivorian economy began a comeback in 1994, due to
the 50% devaluation of the CFA franc and improved prices for cocoa
and coffee, growth in nontraditional primary exports such as
pineapples and rubber, limited trade and banking liberalization,
offshore oil and gas discoveries, and generous external financing
and debt rescheduling by multilateral lenders and France. Moreover,
government adherence to donor-mandated reforms led to a jump in
growth to 5% annually in 1996-99. Growth was negative in 2000
because of the difficulty of meeting the conditions of international
donors, continued low prices of key exports, and post-coup
instability. In 2001-02, a moderate rebound in the cocoa market
could boost growth back above 3%; however, political instability
could impede growth again.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $26.2 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: -0.3% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $1,600 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  32%

industry:  18%

services:  50% (1998)

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:
3.1%

highest 10%:  28.8% (1995)

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 2.5% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 68% agricultural (2000 est.)

Unemployment rate: 13% in urban areas (1998 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $1.5 billion

expenditures:  $2.1 billion, including capital expenditures of $420
million (2000 est.)

Industries: foodstuffs, beverages; wood products, oil refining,
truck and bus assembly, textiles, fertilizer, building materials,
electricity

Industrial production growth rate: 15% (1998 est.)

Electricity - production: 4.06 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  75.37%

hydro:  24.63%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 3.183 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 593 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: coffee, cocoa beans, bananas, palm kernels,
corn, rice, manioc (tapioca), sweet potatoes, sugar, cotton, rubber;
timber

Exports: $3.8 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Exports - commodities: cocoa 33%, coffee, tropical woods, petroleum,
cotton, bananas, pineapples, palm oil, cotton, fish (1999)

Exports - partners: France 15%, US 8%, Netherlands 7%, Germany 6%,
Italy 6% (1999)

Imports: $2.5 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Imports - commodities: food, consumer goods; capital goods, fuel,
transport equipment

Imports - partners: France 26%, Nigeria 10%, China 7%, Italy 5%,
Germany 4% (1999)

Debt - external: $13.9 billion (2000 est.)

Economic aid - recipient: ODA, $1 billion (1996 est.)

Currency: Communaute Financiere Africaine franc (XOF); note -
responsible authority is the Central Bank of the West African States

Currency code: XOF

Exchange rates: Communaute Financiere Africaine francs (XOF) per US
dollar - 699.21 (January 2001), 711.98 (2000), 615.70 (1999), 589.95
(1998), 583.67 (1997), 511.55 (1996); note - from 1 January 1999,
the XOF is pegged to the euro at a rate of 655.957 XOF per euro

Fiscal year: calendar year



Cote d'Ivoire    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 219,283 (31 December 1999)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 322,500 (May 2000)

Telephone system: general assessment:  well developed by African
standards but operating well below capacity

domestic:  open-wire lines and microwave radio relay; 90% digitalized

international:  satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat (1 Atlantic
Ocean and 1 Indian Ocean); 2 coaxial submarine cables (June 1999)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 2, FM 8, shortwave 3 (1998)

Radios: 2.26 million (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 14 (1999)

Televisions: 900,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .ci

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 5 (2001)

Internet users: 20,000 (2000)



Cote d'Ivoire    Transportation

Railways: total:  660 km

narrow gauge:  660 km 1.000-meter gauge; 25 km double track

note:  an additional 600 km of this railroad extends into Burkina
Faso, ending at Kaya, north of Ouagadougou (2000)

Highways: total:  50,400 km

paved:  4,889 km

unpaved:  45,511 km (1996)

Waterways: 980 km (navigable rivers, canals, and numerous coastal
lagoons)

Ports and harbors: Abidjan, Aboisso, Dabou, San-Pedro

Merchant marine: total:  1 ship (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 1,200
GRT/1,500 DWT

ships by type:  petroleum tanker 1 (2000 est.)

Airports: 36 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  7

over 3,047 m:  1

2,438 to 3,047 m:  2

1,524 to 2,437 m:  4 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  29

1,524 to 2,437 m:  8

914 to 1,523 m:  12

under 914 m:  9 (2000 est.)



Cote d'Ivoire    Military

Military branches: Army, Navy, Air Force, paramilitary Gendarmerie,
Republican Guard (includes Presidential Guard), Sapeur-Pompier
(Military Fire Group)

Military manpower - military age: 18 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  3,851,432 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
2,010,862 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  188,411
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $94 million (FY96)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 1% (FY96)



Cote d'Ivoire    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

Illicit drugs: illicit producer of cannabis, mostly for local
consumption; transshipment point for Southwest and Southeast Asian
heroin to Europe and occasionally to the US, and for Latin American
cocaine destined for Europe

======================================================================

@Croatia




Croatia    Introduction

Background: In 1918, the Croats, Serbs, and Slovenes formed a
kingdom known after 1929 as Yugoslavia. Following World War II,
Yugoslavia became an independent communist state under the strong
hand of Marshal TITO. Although Croatia declared its independence
from Yugoslavia in 1991, it took four years of sporadic, but often
bitter, fighting before occupying Serb armies were mostly cleared
from Croatian lands. Under UN supervision the last Serb-held enclave
in eastern Slavonia was returned to Croatia in 1998.



Croatia    Geography

Location: Southeastern Europe, bordering the Adriatic Sea, between
Bosnia and Herzegovina and Slovenia

Geographic coordinates: 45 10 N, 15 30 E

Map references: Europe

Area: total:  56,542 sq km

land:  56,414 sq km

water:  128 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly smaller than West Virginia

Land boundaries: total:  2,028 km

border countries:  Bosnia and Herzegovina 932 km, Hungary 329 km,
Yugoslavia 266 km, Slovenia 501 km

Coastline: 5,835 km (mainland 1,777 km, islands 4,058 km)

Maritime claims: continental shelf:  200-m depth or to the depth of
exploitation

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: Mediterranean and continental; continental climate
predominant with hot summers and cold winters; mild winters, dry
summers along coast

Terrain: geographically diverse; flat plains along Hungarian border,
low mountains and highlands near Adriatic coastline and islands

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Adriatic Sea 0 m

highest point:  Dinara 1,830 m

Natural resources: oil, some coal, bauxite, low-grade iron ore,
calcium, natural asphalt, silica, mica, clays, salt, hydropower

Land use: arable land:  21%

permanent crops:  2%

permanent pastures:  20%

forests and woodland:  38%

other:  19% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 30 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: destructive earthquakes

Environment - current issues: air pollution (from metallurgical
plants) and resulting acid rain is damaging the forests; coastal
pollution from industrial and domestic waste; landmine removal and
reconstruction of infrastructure consequent to 1992-95 civil strife

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Air Pollution,
Air Pollution-Sulphur 94, Biodiversity, Climate Change,
Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the
Sea, Marine Dumping, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship
Pollution, Wetlands

signed, but not ratified:  Air Pollution-Persistent Organic
Pollutants, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol

Geography - note: controls most land routes from Western Europe to
Aegean Sea and Turkish Straits



Croatia    People

Population: 4,334,142 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  18.16% (male 403,722; female 383,151)

15-64 years:  66.61% (male 1,452,872; female 1,434,086)

65 years and over:  15.23% (male 245,727; female 414,584) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 1.48% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 12.82 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 11.41 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 13.37 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.06 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1.01 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.59 male(s)/female

total population:  0.94 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 7.21 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  73.9 years

male:  70.28 years

female:  77.73 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 1.94 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 0.02% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 350 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: less than 100 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Croat(s)

adjective:  Croatian

Ethnic groups: Croat 78.1%, Serb 12.2%, Bosniak 0.9%, Hungarian
0.5%, Slovenian 0.5%, Czech 0.4%, Albanian 0.3%, Montenegrin 0.3%,
Roma 0.2%, others 6.6% (1991)

Religions: Roman Catholic 76.5%, Orthodox 11.1%, Muslim 1.2%,
Protestant 0.4%, others and unknown 10.8% (1991)

Languages: Croatian 96%, other 4% (including Italian, Hungarian,
Czech, Slovak, and German)

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  97%

male:  99%

female:  95% (1991 est.)



Croatia    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Republic of Croatia

conventional short form:  Croatia

local long form:  Republika Hrvatska

local short form:  Hrvatska

Government type: presidential/parliamentary democracy

Capital: Zagreb

Administrative divisions: 20 counties (zupanije, zupanija -
singular), 1 city (grad -singular)*: Bjelovarsko-Bilogorska
Zupanija, Brodsko-Posavska Zupanija, Dubrovacko-Neretvanska
Zupanija, Istarska Zupanija, Karlovacka Zupanija,
Koprivnicko-Krizevacka Zupanija, Krapinsko-Zagorska Zupanija,
Licko-Senjska Zupanija, Medimurska Zupanija, Osjecko-Baranjska
Zupanija, Pozesko-Slavonska Zupanija, Primorsko-Goranska Zupanija,
Sibensko-Kninska Zupanija, Sisacko-Moslavacka Zupanija,
Splitsko-Dalmatinska Zupanija, Varazdinska Zupanija,
Viroviticko-Podravska Zupanija, Vukovarsko-Srijemska Zupanija,
Zadarska Zupanija, Zagreb*, Zagrebacka Zupanija

Independence: 25 June 1991 (from Yugoslavia)

National holiday: Republic Day/Statehood Day, 30 May (1990)

Constitution: adopted on 22 December 1990

Legal system: based on civil law system

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal (16 years of age, if employed)

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Stjepan (Stipe) MESIC
(since 18 February 2000)

head of government:  Prime Minister Ivica RACAN (since 27 January
2000); Deputy Prime Ministers Goran GRANIC (since 27 January 2000),
Zeljka ANTUNOVIC (since 27 January 2000), Slavko LINIC (since 27
January 2000)

cabinet:  Council of Ministers named by the prime minister and
approved by the House of Representatives

elections:  president elected by popular vote for a five-year term;
election last held 7 February 2000 (next to be held NA 2005); prime
minister nominated by the president in line with the balance of
power in the Assembly

election results:  Stjepan MESIC elected president; percent of vote
- Stjepan MESIC (HNS) 56%, Drazen BUDISA (HSLS) 44%

note:  government coalition - SDP, HSLS, HSS, LP, HNS, IDS

Legislative branch: bicameral Assembly or Sabor consists of the
House of Counties or Zupanijski Dom (68 seats, 63 directly elected
by popular vote, 5 appointed by the president; members serve
four-year terms; note - House of Counties to be abolished in 2001)
and House of Representatives or the Zastupnicki Dom (151 seats;
members elected by popular vote to serve four-year terms)

elections:  House of Counties - last held 13 April 1997; House of
Representatives - last held 2-3 January 2000 (next to be held NA
2004)

election results:  House of Counties - percent of vote by party -
NA%; seats by party - HDZ 42, HSLS/HSS 11, HSS 2, IDS 2, SDP/PGS/HNS
2, SDP/HNS 2, HSLS/HSS/HNS 1, HSLS 1; note - in some districts
certain parties ran as coalitions, while in others they ran alone;
House of Representatives - percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by
party - HDZ 46, SDP 44, HSLS 24, HSS 17, HSP/HKDU 5, IDS 4, HNS 2,
independents 4, minority representatives 5

Judicial branch: Supreme Court; Constitutional Court; judges for
both courts appointed for eight-year terms by the Judicial Council
of the Republic, which is elected by the House of Representatives

Political parties and leaders: Alliance of Croatian Coast and
Mountains Department or PGS [Luciano SUSANJ]; Croatian Christian
Democratic Union or HKDU [Marko VESELICA]; Croatian Democratic Union
or HDZ [Ivo SANADER]; Croatian Party of Rights or HSP [Dobroslav
PARAGA]; Croatian Peasant Party or HSS [Zlatko TOMCIC]; Croatian
People's Party or HNS [Vesna PUSIC]; Croatian Social Liberal Party
or HSLS [Drazen BUDISA]; Independent Democratic Serb Party or SDSS
[Vojislav STANIMIROVIC]; Istrian Democratic Assembly or IDS [Ivan
JAKOVCIC]; Liberal Party or LP [leader NA]; Social Democratic Party
of Croatia or SDP [Ivica RACAN]

note:  the Social Democratic Party or SDP and the Croatian Social
Liberal Party or HSLS formed a coalition as did the HSS, HNS, LP,
and IDS, which together defeated the Croatian Democratic Union or
HDZ in the 2000 lower house parliamentary election

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: BIS, CCC, CE, CEI, EAPC,
EBRD, ECE, FAO, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC,
IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM,
ISO, ITU, NAM (observer), OAS (observer), OPCW, OSCE, PCA, PFP, UN,
UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Ivan GRDESIC

chancery:  2343 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone:  [1] (202) 588-5899

FAX:  [1] (202) 588-8936

consulate(s) general:  Chicago, Cleveland, Los Angeles, New York

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Lawrence G. ROSSIN

embassy:  Andrije Hebranga 2, 100000 Zagreb

mailing address:  use street address

telephone:  [385] (1) 455-55-00

FAX:  [385] (1) 455-85-85

Flag description: red, white, and blue horizontal bands with
Croatian coat of arms (red and white checkered)



Croatia    Economy

Economy - overview: Before the dissolution of Yugoslavia, the
Republic of Croatia, after Slovenia, was the most prosperous and
industrialized area, with a per capita output perhaps one-third
above the Yugoslav average. Croatia faces considerable economic
problems stemming from: the legacy of longtime communist
mismanagement of the economy; damage during the internecine fighting
to bridges, factories, power lines, buildings, and houses; the large
refugee and displaced population, both Croatian and Bosnian; and the
disruption of economic ties. Stepped-up Western aid and investment,
especially in the tourist and oil industries, would help bolster the
economy. The economy emerged from its mild recession in 2000 with
tourism the main factor. Massive unemployment remains a key negative
element. The government's failure to press the economic reforms
needed to spur growth is largely the result of coalition politics
and public resistance, particularly from the trade unions, to
measures that would cut jobs, wages, or social benefits.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $24.9 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 3.2% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $5,800 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  10%

industry:  19%

services:  71% (1999 est.)

Population below poverty line: 4% (1999 est.)

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 6% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 1.68 million (October 2000)

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture NA%, industry NA%, services
NA%

Unemployment rate: 22% (October 2000)

Budget: revenues:  $6 billion

expenditures:  $4.7 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
(1999 est.)

Industries: chemicals and plastics, machine tools, fabricated metal,
electronics, pig iron and rolled steel products, aluminum, paper,
wood products, construction materials, textiles, shipbuilding,
petroleum and petroleum refining, food and beverages; tourism

Industrial production growth rate: 1.7% (2000)

Electricity - production: 10.96 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  40.89%

hydro:  59%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0.11% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 13.643 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 1 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 4.45 billion kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: wheat, corn, sugar beets, sunflower seed,
alfalfa, clover, olives, citrus, grapes, soy beans, potatoes;
livestock, dairy products

Exports: $4.3 billion (f.o.b., 1999)

Exports - commodities: transport equipment, textiles, chemicals,
foodstuffs, fuels

Exports - partners: Italy 18%, Germany 15.7%, Bosnia and Herzegovina
12.8%, Slovenia 10.6%, Austria 6.2% (1999)

Imports: $7.8 billion (c.i.f., 1999)

Imports - commodities: machinery, transport and electrical
equipment, chemicals, fuels and lubricants, foodstuffs

Imports - partners: Germany 18.5%, Italy 15.9%, Russia 8.6%,
Slovenia 7.9%, Austria 7.1% (1999)

Debt - external: $9.9 billion (December 1999)

Economic aid - recipient: $NA

Currency: kuna (HRK)

Currency code: HRK

Exchange rates: kuna per US dollar - 8.089 (January 2001), 8.277
(2000), 7.112 (1999), 6.362 (1998), 6.101 (1997), 5.434 (1996)

Fiscal year: calendar year



Croatia    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 1.488 million (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 187,000 (yearend 1998)

Telephone system: general assessment:  NA

domestic:  reconstruction plan calls for replacement of all analog
circuits with digital and enlarging the network; a backup will be
included in the plan for the main trunk

international:  digital international service is provided through
the main switch in Zagreb; Croatia participates in the
Trans-Asia-Europe (TEL) fiber-optic project which consists of two
fiber-optic trunk connections with Slovenia and a fiber-optic trunk
line from Rijeka to Split and Dubrovnik; Croatia is also investing
in ADRIA 1, a joint fiber-optic project with Germany, Albania, and
Greece (2000)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 16, FM 98, shortwave 5 (1999)

Radios: 1.51 million (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 36 (plus 321 repeaters) (September
1995)

Televisions: 1.22 million (1997)

Internet country code: .hr

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 9 (2000)

Internet users: 100,000 (1999)



Croatia    Transportation

Railways: total:  2,296 km

standard gauge:  2,296 km 1.435-m gauge (983 km electrified) (2000)

Highways: total:  27,840 km

paved:  23,497 km (including 330 km of expressways)

unpaved:  4,343 km (1998)

Waterways: 785 km

note:  (perennially navigable; large sections of Sava blocked by
downed bridges, silt, and debris)

Pipelines: crude oil 670 km; petroleum products 20 km; natural gas
310 km (1992)

Ports and harbors: Dubrovnik, Dugi Rat, Omisalj, Ploce, Pula,
Rijeka, Sibenik, Split, Vukovar (inland waterway port on Danube),
Zadar

Merchant marine: total:  53 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
631,853 GRT/969,739 DWT

ships by type:  bulk 11, cargo 18, chemical tanker 1, combination
bulk 5, container 3, multi-functional large-load carrier 3,
passenger 1, petroleum tanker 2, refrigerated cargo 2, roll on/roll
off 4, short-sea passenger 3 (2000 est.)

Airports: 67 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  22

over 3,047 m:  2

2,438 to 3,047 m:  6

1,524 to 2,437 m:  2

914 to 1,523 m:  4

under 914 m:  8 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  45

1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

914 to 1,523 m:  8

under 914 m:  36 (2000 est.)

Heliports: 1 (2000 est.)



Croatia    Military

Military branches: Ground Forces, Naval Forces, Air and Air Defense
Forces

Military manpower - military age: 19 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  1,085,877 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
859,621 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  30,037
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $575 million (2000)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 3.8% (2000)



Croatia    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: Croatia and Italy made progress toward
resolving a bilateral issue dating from World War II over property
and ethnic minority rights; progress with Slovenia on discussions of
adjustments to land boundary, but problems remain in defining
maritime boundary in Gulf of Piran; Croatia and Yugoslavia are
negotiating the status of the strategically important Prevlaka
Peninsula, which is currently under a UN military observer mission
(UNMOP)

Illicit drugs: transit point along the Balkan route for Southwest
Asian heroin to Western Europe; a minor transit point for maritime
shipments of South American cocaine bound for Western Europe

======================================================================

@Cuba




Cuba    Introduction

Background: Fidel CASTRO led a rebel army to victory in 1959; his
iron rule has held the country together since. Cuba's communist
revolution, with Soviet support, was exported throughout Latin
America and Africa during the 1960s, 70s, and 80s. The country is
now slowly recovering from a severe economic recession in 1990,
following the withdrawal of former Soviet subsidies, worth $4
billion to $6 billion annually. Havana portrays its difficulties as
the result of the US embargo in place since 1961. Illicit migration
to the US - using homemade rafts, alien smugglers, or falsified
visas - is a continuing problem. Some 3,000 Cubans took to the
Straits of Florida in 2000; the US Coast Guard interdicted only
about 35% of these.



Cuba    Geography

Location: Caribbean, island between the Caribbean Sea and the North
Atlantic Ocean, south of Florida

Geographic coordinates: 21 30 N, 80 00 W

Map references: Central America and the Caribbean

Area: total:  110,860 sq km

land:  110,860 sq km

water:  0 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly smaller than Pennsylvania

Land boundaries: total:  29 km

border countries:  US Naval Base at Guantanamo Bay 29 km

note:  Guantanamo Naval Base is leased by the US and thus remains
part of Cuba

Coastline: 3,735 km

Maritime claims: exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: tropical; moderated by trade winds; dry season (November to
April); rainy season (May to October)

Terrain: mostly flat to rolling plains, with rugged hills and
mountains in the southeast

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Caribbean Sea 0 m

highest point:  Pico Turquino 2,005 m

Natural resources: cobalt, nickel, iron ore, copper, manganese,
salt, timber, silica, petroleum, arable land

Land use: arable land:  24%

permanent crops:  7%

permanent pastures:  27%

forests and woodland:  24%

other:  18% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 9,100 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: the east coast is subject to hurricanes from August
to October (in general, the country averages about one hurricane
every other year); droughts are common

Environment - current issues: pollution of Havana Bay; overhunting
threatens wildlife populations; deforestation

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Antarctic Treaty,
Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species,
Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine
Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution

signed, but not ratified:  Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Climate
Change-Kyoto Protocol, Marine Life Conservation

Geography - note: largest country in Caribbean



Cuba    People

Population: 11,184,023 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  20.99% (male 1,205,159; female 1,142,070)

15-64 years:  69.14% (male 3,876,432; female 3,855,878)

65 years and over:  9.87% (male 511,589; female 592,895) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 0.37% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 12.36 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 7.33 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: -1.36 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.06 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.06 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1.01 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.86 male(s)/female

total population:  1 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 7.39 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  76.41 years

male:  74.02 years

female:  78.94 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 1.6 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 0.03% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 1,950 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: 120 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Cuban(s)

adjective:  Cuban

Ethnic groups: mulatto 51%, white 37%, black 11%, Chinese 1%

Religions: nominally 85% Roman Catholic prior to CASTRO assuming
power; Protestants, Jehovah's Witnesses, Jews, and Santeria are also
represented

Languages: Spanish

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  95.7%

male:  96.2%

female:  95.3% (1995 est.)

People - note: illicit migration is a continuing problem; Cubans
attempt to depart the island and enter the US using homemade rafts,
alien smugglers, direct flights, or falsified visas; some 3,000
Cubans took to the Straits of Florida in 2000; the US Coast Guard
interdicted about 35% of these migrants; Cubans also use
non-maritime routes to enter the US; some 2,400 Cubans arrived
overland via the southwest border and direct flights to Miami



Cuba    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Republic of Cuba

conventional short form:  Cuba

local long form:  Republica de Cuba

local short form:  Cuba

Government type: Communist state

Capital: Havana

Administrative divisions: 14 provinces (provincias, singular -
provincia) and 1 special municipality* (municipio especial);
Camaguey, Ciego de Avila, Cienfuegos, Ciudad de La Habana, Granma,
Guantanamo, Holguin, Isla de la Juventud*, La Habana, Las Tunas,
Matanzas, Pinar del Rio, Sancti Spiritus, Santiago de Cuba, Villa
Clara

Independence: 20 May 1902 (from US)

National holiday: Independence Day, 10 October (1868); note - 10
October 1868 is the date of independence from Spain, 20 May 1902 is
the date of independence from US administration

Constitution: 24 February 1976, amended July 1992

Legal system: based on Spanish and American law, with large elements
of Communist legal theory; has not accepted compulsory ICJ
jurisdiction

Suffrage: 16 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  President of the Council of State
and President of the Council of Ministers Fidel CASTRO Ruz (prime
minister from February 1959 until 24 February 1976 when office was
abolished; president since 2 December 1976); First Vice President of
the Council of State and First Vice President of the Council of
Ministers Gen. Raul CASTRO Ruz (since 2 December 1976); note - the
president is both the chief of state and head of government

head of government:  President of the Council of State and President
of the Council of Ministers Fidel CASTRO Ruz (prime minister from
February 1959 until 24 February 1976 when office was abolished;
president since 2 December 1976); First Vice President of the
Council of State and First Vice President of the Council of
Ministers Gen. Raul CASTRO Ruz (since 2 December 1976); note - the
president is both the chief of state and head of government

cabinet:  Council of Ministers proposed by the president of the
Council of State, appointed by the National Assembly; note - there
is also a Council of State whose members are elected by the National
Assembly

elections:  president and vice president elected by the National
Assembly; election last held 24 February 1998 (next election
unscheduled)

election results:  Fidel CASTRO Ruz elected president; percent of
legislative vote - 100%; Raul CASTRO Ruz elected vice president;
percent of legislative vote - 100%

Legislative branch: unicameral National Assembly of People's Power
or Asemblea Nacional del Poder Popular (601 seats, elected directly
from slates approved by special candidacy commissions; members serve
five-year terms)

elections:  last held 11 January 1998 (next to be held in 2003)

election results:  percent of vote - PCC 94.39%; seats - PCC 601

Judicial branch: People's Supreme Court or Tribunal Supremo Popular
(president, vice president, and other judges are elected by the
National Assembly)

Political parties and leaders: only party - Cuban Communist Party or
PCC [Fidel CASTRO Ruz, first secretary]

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: CCC, ECLAC, FAO, G-77,
IAEA, ICAO, ICC, ICRM, IFAD, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMO, Inmarsat,
Intelsat (nonsignatory user), Interpol, IOC, IOM (observer), ISO,
ITU, LAES, LAIA, NAM, OAS (excluded from formal participation since
1962), OPCW, PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WFTU, WHO,
WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Diplomatic representation in the US: none; note - Cuba has an
Interests Section in the Swiss Embassy, headed by Principal Officer
Fernando REMIREZ DE ESTENOZ; address: Cuban Interests Section, Swiss
Embassy, 2630 16th Street NW, Washington, DC 20009; telephone: [1]
(202) 797-8518

Diplomatic representation from the US: none; note - the US has an
Interests Section in the Swiss Embassy, headed by Principal Officer
Vicki HUDDLESTON; address: USINT, Swiss Embassy, Calzada between L
and M Streets, Vedado Seccion, Havana; telephone: 33-3551 through
3559 (operator assistance required); FAX: 33-3700; protecting power
in Cuba is Switzerland

Flag description: five equal horizontal bands of blue (top and
bottom) alternating with white; a red equilateral triangle based on
the hoist side bears a white, five-pointed star in the center;
design influenced by the US flag



Cuba    Economy

Economy - overview: The government, the primary player in the
economy, has undertaken limited reforms in recent years to stem
excess liquidity, increase enterprise efficiency, and alleviate
serious shortages of food, consumer goods, and services, but
prioritizing of political control makes extensive reforms unlikely.
Living standards for the average Cuban, without access to dollars,
remain at a depressed level compared with 1990. The liberalized
farmers' markets introduced in 1994, sell above-quota production at
market prices, expand legal consumption alternatives, and reduce
black market prices. Income taxes and increased regulations
introduced since 1996 have sharply reduced the number of legally
self-employed from a high of 208,000 in January 1996. Havana
announced in 1995 that GDP declined by 35% during 1989-93 as a
result of lost Soviet aid and domestic inefficiencies. The slide in
GDP came to a halt in 1994 when Cuba reported growth in GDP of 0.7%.
Cuba reported that GDP increased by 2.5% in 1995 and 7.8% in 1996,
before slowing down in 1997 and 1998 to 2.5% and 1.2% respectively.
Growth recovered with a 6.2% increase in GDP in 1999 and a 5.6%
increase in 2000. Much of Cuba's recovery can be attributed to
tourism revenues and foreign investment. Growth in 2001 should
continue at the same level as the government balances the need for
economic loosening against its concern for firm political control.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $19.2 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 5.6% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $1,700 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  7%

industry:  37%

services:  56% (1998 est.)

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 0.3% (1999 est.)

Labor force: 4.3 million (2000 est.)

note:  state sector 75%, non-state sector 25% (1998)

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture 25%, industry 24%, services
51% (1998)

Unemployment rate: 5.5% (2000 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $13.5 billion

expenditures:  $14.3 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
(2000 est.)

Industries: sugar, petroleum, tobacco, chemicals, construction,
services, nickel, steel, cement, agricultural machinery

Industrial production growth rate: 5% (2000 est.)

Electricity - production: 14.358 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  94.2%

hydro:  0.7%

nuclear:  0%

other:  5.1% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 13.353 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: sugar, tobacco, citrus, coffee, rice,
potatoes, beans; livestock

Exports: $1.8 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Exports - commodities: sugar, nickel, tobacco, fish, medical
products, citrus, coffee

Exports - partners: Russia 23%, Netherlands 23%, Canada 13% (1999)

Imports: $3.4 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Imports - commodities: petroleum, food, machinery, chemicals,
semifinished goods, transport equipment, consumer goods

Imports - partners: Spain 18%, Venezuela 13%, Canada 8% (1999)

Debt - external: $11.1 billion (convertible currency, 1999); another
$15 billion -$20 billion owed to Russia (2000)

Economic aid - recipient: $68.2 million (1997 est.)

Currency: Cuban peso (CUP)

Currency code: CUP

Exchange rates: Cuban pesos per US dollar - 1.0000 (nonconvertible,
official rate, for international transactions, pegged to the US
dollar); convertible peso sold for domestic use at a rate of 1.00 US
dollar per 22 pesos by the Government of Cuba (January 2001)

Fiscal year: calendar year



Cuba    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 473,031 (2000)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 2,994 (1997)

Telephone system: general assessment:  NA

domestic:  principal trunk system, end to end of country, is coaxial
cable; fiber-optic distribution in Havana and on Isla de la
Juventud; 2 microwave radio relay installations (one is old,
US-built; the other newer, Soviet-built); both analog and digital
mobile cellular service established

international:  satellite earth station - 1 Intersputnik (Atlantic
Ocean region)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 169, FM 55, shortwave 1 (1998)

Radios: 3.9 million (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 58 (1997)

Televisions: 2.64 million (1997)

Internet country code: .cu

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 4 (2001)

Internet users: 60,000 (2000)



Cuba    Transportation

Railways: total:  11,969 km

standard gauge:  4,807 km 1.435-m gauge (147 km electrified)

note:  in addition to the 4,807 km of standard gauge track in public
use, 7,162 km of track is in private use by sugar plantations; about
90% of the private use track is standard gauge and the rest is
narrow gauge (2000)

Highways: total:  60,858 km

paved:  29,820 km (including 638 km of expressway)

unpaved:  31,038 km (1997)

Waterways: 240 km

Ports and harbors: Cienfuegos, Havana, Manzanillo, Mariel, Matanzas,
Nuevitas, Santiago de Cuba

Merchant marine: total:  15 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
54,821 GRT/78,062 DWT

ships by type:  bulk 1, cargo 7, liquefied gas 1, petroleum tanker
1, refrigerated cargo 5 (2000 est.)

Airports: 171 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  77

over 3,047 m:  7

2,438 to 3,047 m:  9

1,524 to 2,437 m:  16

914 to 1,523 m:  10

under 914 m:  35 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  94

914 to 1,523 m:  31

under 914 m:  63 (2000 est.)



Cuba    Military

Military branches: Revolutionary Armed Forces (FAR) includes ground
forces, Revolutionary Navy (MGR), Air and Air Defense Force
(DAAFAR), Territorial Troops Militia (MTT), and Youth Labor Army
(EJT); the Border Guard (TGF) is controlled by the Interior Ministry

Military manpower - military age: 17 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  3,090,633

females age 15-49:  3,029,274 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
1,911,160

females age 15-49:  1,867,958 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  79,562

females:  85,650 (2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $NA

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: roughly 4% (FY95 est.)

Military - note: Moscow, for decades the key military supporter and
supplier of Cuba, cut off almost all military aid by 1993



Cuba    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: US Naval Base at Guantanamo Bay is leased
to US and only mutual agreement or US abandonment of the area can
terminate the lease

Illicit drugs: territorial waters and air space serve as
transshipment zone for cocaine bound for the US and Europe;
established the death penalty for certain drug-related crimes in 1999

======================================================================

@Cyprus




Cyprus    Introduction

Background: Independence from the UK was approved in 1960 with
constitutional guarantees by the Greek Cypriot majority to the
Turkish Cypriot minority. In 1974, a Greek-sponsored attempt to
seize the government was met by military intervention from Turkey,
which soon controlled almost 40% of the island. In 1983, the
Turkish-held area declared itself the "Turkish Republic of Northern
Cyprus", but it is recognized only by Turkey. UN-led talks on the
status of Cyprus resumed in December 1999 to prepare the ground for
meaningful negotiations leading to a comprehensive settlement.



Cyprus    Geography

Location: Middle East, island in the Mediterranean Sea, south of
Turkey

Geographic coordinates: 35 00 N, 33 00 E

Map references: Middle East

Area: total:  9,250 sq km (of which 3,355 sq km are in the Turkish
Cypriot area)

land:  9,240 sq km

water:  10 sq km

Area - comparative: about 0.6 times the size of Connecticut

Land boundaries: 0 km

Coastline: 648 km

Maritime claims: continental shelf:  200-m depth or to the depth of
exploitation

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: temperate, Mediterranean with hot, dry summers and cool,
winters

Terrain: central plain with mountains to north and south; scattered
but significant plains along southern coast

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Mediterranean Sea 0 m

highest point:  Olympus 1,951 m

Natural resources: copper, pyrites, asbestos, gypsum, timber, salt,
marble, clay earth pigment

Land use: arable land:  12%

permanent crops:  5%

permanent pastures:  0%

forests and woodland:  13%

other:  70% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 390 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: moderate earthquake activity; droughts

Environment - current issues: water resource problems (no natural
reservoir catchments, seasonal disparity in rainfall, sea water
intrusion to island's largest aquifer, increased salination in the
north); water pollution from sewage and industrial wastes; coastal
degradation; loss of wildlife habitats from urbanization

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Air Pollution,
Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol,
Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification,
Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Nuclear Test Ban,
Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution

signed, but not ratified:  Air Pollution-Persistent Organic
Pollutants



Cyprus    People

Population: 762,887 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  22.95% (male 89,532; female 85,518)

15-64 years:  66.26% (male 255,368; female 250,140)

65 years and over:  10.79% (male 35,864; female 46,465) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 0.59% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 13.08 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 7.65 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 0.44 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1.02 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.77 male(s)/female

total population:  1 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 7.89 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  76.89 years

male:  74.6 years

female:  79.3 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 1.93 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 0.1% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 400 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: NA

Nationality: noun:  Cypriot(s)

adjective:  Cypriot

Ethnic groups: Greek 78% (99.5% of the Greeks live in the Greek
Cypriot area; 0.5% of the Greeks live in the Turkish Cypriot area),
Turkish 18% (1.3% of the Turks live in the Greek Cypriot area; 98.7%
of the Turks live in the Turkish Cypriot area), other 4% (99.2% of
the other ethnic groups live in the Greek Cypriot area; 0.8% of the
other ethnic groups live in the Turkish Cypriot area)

Religions: Greek Orthodox 78%, Muslim 18%, Maronite, Armenian
Apostolic, and other 4%

Languages: Greek, Turkish, English

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  94%

male:  98%

female:  91% (1987 est.)



Cyprus    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Republic of Cyprus

conventional short form:  Cyprus

note:  the Turkish Cypriot area refers to itself as the "Turkish
Republic of Northern Cyprus" (TRNC)

Government type: republic

note:  a disaggregation of the two ethnic communities inhabiting the
island began following the outbreak of communal strife in 1963; this
separation was further solidified after the Turkish intervention in
July 1974 after a Greek junta-based coup attempt gave the Turkish
Cypriots de facto control in the north; Greek Cypriots control the
only internationally recognized government; on 15 November 1983
Turkish Cypriot "President" Rauf DENKTASH declared independence and
the formation of a "Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus" (TRNC),
recognized only by Turkey; both sides publicly support a settlement
based on a federation (Greek Cypriot position) or confederation
(Turkish Cypriot position)

Capital: Nicosia

Administrative divisions: 6 districts; Famagusta, Kyrenia, Larnaca,
Limassol, Nicosia, Paphos; note - Turkish Cypriot area's
administrative divisions include Kyrenia, all but a small part of
Famagusta, and small parts of Lefkosa (Nicosia) and Larnaca

Independence: 16 August 1960 (from UK); note - Turkish Cypriot area
proclaimed self-rule on 13 February 1975

National holiday: Independence Day, 1 October (1960); note - Turkish
Cypriot area celebrates 15 November (1983) as Independence Day

Constitution: 16 August 1960; negotiations to create the basis for a
new or revised constitution to govern the island and to better
relations between Greek and Turkish Cypriots have been held
intermittently; in 1975 Turkish Cypriots created their own
constitution and governing bodies within the "Turkish Federated
State of Cyprus," which was renamed the "Turkish Republic of
Northern Cyprus" in 1983; a new constitution for the Turkish Cypriot
area passed by referendum on 5 May 1985

Legal system: based on common law, with civil law modifications

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Glafcos CLERIDES (since
28 February 1993); note - the president is both the chief of state
and head of government; post of vice president is currently vacant;
under the 1960 constitution, the post is reserved for a Turkish
Cypriot

head of government:  President Glafcos CLERIDES (since 28 February
1993); note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
government; post of vice president is currently vacant; under the
1960 constitution, the post is reserved for a Turkish Cypriot

cabinet:  Council of Ministers appointed jointly by the president
and vice president

elections:  president elected by popular vote for a five-year term;
election last held 15 February 1998 (next to be held NA February
2003)

election results:  Glafcos CLERIDES reelected president; percent of
vote - Glafcos CLERIDES 50.8%, George IAKOVOU 49.2%

note:  Rauf R. DENKTASH has been "president" of the Turkish Cypriot
area since 13 February 1975 ("president" elected by popular vote for
a five-year term); elections last held 15 April 2000 (next to be
held NA April 2005); results - Rauf R. DENKTASH reelected president
after the other contender withdrew; Dervis EROGLU has been "prime
minister" of the Turkish Cypriot area since 16 August 1996; there is
a Council of Ministers (cabinet) in the Turkish Cypriot area

Legislative branch: unicameral - Greek Cypriot area: House of
Representatives or Vouli Antiprosopon (80 seats; 56 assigned to the
Greek Cypriots, 24 to Turkish Cypriots; note - only those assigned
to Greek Cypriots are filled; members are elected by popular vote to
serve five-year terms); Turkish Cypriot area: Assembly of the
Republic or Cumhuriyet Meclisi (50 seats; members are elected by
popular vote to serve five-year terms)

elections:  Greek Cypriot area: last held 27 May 2001 (next to be
held NA May 2006); Turkish Cypriot area: last held 6 December 1998
(next to be held NA December 2003)

election results:  Greek Cypriot area: House of Representatives -
percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party - AKEL (Communist)
20, DISY 19, DIKO 9, KISOS 4, others 4; Turkish Cypriot area:
Assembly of the Republic - percent of vote by party - UBP 40.3%, DP
22.6%, TKP 15.4%, CTP 13.4%, UDP 4.6%, YBH 2.5%, BP 1.2%; seats by
party - UBP 24, DP 13, TKP 7, CTP 6

Judicial branch: Supreme Court (judges are appointed by the Supreme
Council of Judicature)

note:  there is also a Supreme Court in the Turkish Cypriot area

Political parties and leaders: Greek Cypriot area: Democratic Party
or DIKO [Tassos PAPADOPOULOS]; Democratic Rally or DISY [Nikos
ANASTASIADHIS]; Restorative Party of the Working People or AKEL
(Communist Party) [Dimitrios CHRISTOFIAS]; Social Democrats Movement
or KISOS (formerly United Democratic Union of Cyprus or EDEK)
[Vassos LYSSARIDIS]; United Democrats Movement or EDE (formerly Free
Democrats Movement or KED) [George VASSILIOU]; Turkish Cypriot area:
Communal Liberation Party or TKP [Mustafa AKINCI]; Democratic Party
or DP [Salih COSAR]; National Birth Party or UDP [Enver EMIN];
National Unity Party or UBP [Dervis EROGLU]; Our Party or BP [Okyay
SADIKOGLU]; Patriotic Unity Movement or YBH [Izzet IZCAN];
Republican Turkish Party or CTP [Mehmet ALI TALAT]

Political pressure groups and leaders: Confederation of Cypriot
Workers or SEK (pro-West); Confederation of Revolutionary Labor
Unions or Dev-Is; Federation of Turkish Cypriot Labor Unions or
Turk-Sen; Pan-Cyprian Labor Federation or PEO (Communist controlled)

International organization participation: Australia Group, C, CCC,
CE, EBRD, ECE, EU (applicant), FAO, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC,
ICFTU, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS (associate), IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO,
Inmarsat, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO, ITU, NAM, NSG, OAS
(observer), OPCW, OSCE, PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WCL,
WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Erato KOZAKOU-MARCOULLIS

chancery:  2211 R Street NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone:  [1] (202) 462-5772

FAX:  [1] (202) 483-6710

consulate(s) general:  New York

note:  representative of the Turkish Cypriot area in the US is Ahmet
ERDENGIZ; office at 1667 K Street NW, Washington, DC; telephone [1]
(202) 887-6198

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Donald K. BANDLER

embassy:  corner of Metochiou and Ploutarchou Streets, Engomi, 2407
Nicosia

mailing address:  P. O. Box 4536, FPO AE 09836

telephone:  [357] (2) 776400

FAX:  [357] (2) 780944

Flag description: white with a copper-colored silhouette of the
island (the name Cyprus is derived from the Greek word for copper)
above two green crossed olive branches in the center of the flag;
the branches symbolize the hope for peace and reconciliation between
the Greek and Turkish communities

note:  the Turkish Cypriot flag has a horizontal red stripe at the
top and bottom between which is a red crescent and red star on a
white field



Cyprus    Economy

Economy - overview: Economic affairs are affected by the division of
the country. The Greek Cypriot economy is prosperous but highly
susceptible to external shocks. Erratic growth rates in the 1990s
reflect the economy's vulnerability to swings in tourist arrivals,
caused by political instability on the island and fluctuations in
economic conditions in Western Europe. Economic policy is focused on
meeting the criteria for admission to the EU. As in the Turkish
sector, water shortage is a growing problem, and several
desalination plants are planned. The Turkish Cypriot economy has
about one-fifth the population and one-third the per capita GDP of
the south. Because it is recognized only by Turkey, it has had much
difficulty arranging foreign financing, and foreign firms have
hesitated to invest there. It remains heavily dependent on
agriculture and government service, which together employ about half
of the work force. Moreover, the small, vulnerable economy has
suffered because the Turkish lira is legal tender. To compensate for
the economy's weakness, Turkey provides direct and indirect aid to
tourism, education, industry, etc.

GDP: Greek Cypriot area: purchasing power parity - $9.7 billion
(2000 est.); Turkish Cypriot area: purchasing power parity - $830
million (1999 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: Greek Cypriot area: 4.2% (2000 est.);
Turkish Cypriot area: 4.9% (1999 est.)

GDP - per capita: Greek Cypriot area: purchasing power parity -
$16,000 (2000 est.); Turkish Cypriot area: purchasing power parity -
$5,300 (1999 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: Greek Cypriot area: agriculture 6.3%,
industry 22.4%, services 71.3% (1998); Turkish Cypriot area:
agriculture 11.8%, industry 20.5%, services 67.7% (1998)

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): Greek Cypriot area: 4.2% (2000
est.); Turkish Cypriot area: 58% (1999 est.)

Labor force: Greek Cypriot area: 291,000; Turkish Cypriot area:
86,300 (2000)

Labor force - by occupation: Greek Cypriot area: services 73%,
industry 22%, agriculture 5% (2000); Turkish Cypriot area: services
56.4%, industry 22.8%, agriculture 20.8% (1998)

Unemployment rate: Greek Cypriot area: 3.6% (2000 est.); Turkish
Cypriot area: 6% (1998 est.)

Budget: revenues:  Greek Cypriot area - $2.9 billion (2000 est.);
Turkish Cypriot area - $294 million (2000 est.)

expenditures:  Greek Cypriot area - $3.2 billion, including capital
expenditures of $324 million (2000 est.); Turkish Cypriot $495
million, including capital expenditures of $60 million (2000 est.)

Industries: food, beverages, textiles, chemicals, metal products,
tourism, wood products

Industrial production growth rate: Greek Cypriot area: 2.2% (1999);
Turkish Cypriot area: -0.3% (1999)

Electricity - production: 2.951 billion kWh (1999); Turkish Cypriot
area: NA kWh

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  100%

hydro:  0%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 2.744 billion kWh (1999); Turkish Cypriot
area: NA kWh

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: potatoes, citrus, vegetables, barley,
grapes, olives, vegetables

Exports: Greek Cypriot area: $1 billion (f.o.b., 1999 est.); Turkish
Cypriot area: $51.1 million (f.o.b., 1999)

Exports - commodities: Greek Cypriot area: citrus, potatoes, grapes,
wine, cement, clothing and shoes; Turkish Cypriot area: citrus,
potatoes, textiles

Exports - partners: Greek Cypriot area: UK 17.3%, Greece 9.7%,
Russia 7.0%, Lebanon 5.2% (1999); Turkish Cypriot area: Turkey 51%,
UK 31%, other EU 16.5% (1999)

Imports: Greek Cypriot area: $3.6 billion (f.o.b., 1999 est.);
Turkish Cypriot area: $402 million (f.o.b., 1999)

Imports - commodities: Greek Cypriot area: consumer goods, petroleum
and lubricants, food and feed grains, machinery; Turkish Cypriot
area: food, minerals, chemicals, machinery

Imports - partners: Greek Cypriot area: UK 11.2%, US 10.6%, Italy
8.8%, Greece 8.2%, Germany 6.7% (1999); Turkish Cypriot area: Turkey
58.6%, UK 12.5%, other EU 13% (1999)

Debt - external: Greek Cypriot area: $NA; Turkish Cypriot area: $NA

Economic aid - recipient: Greek Cypriot area - $17 million (1998);
Turkish Cypriot area - $700 million from Turkey in grants and loans
(1990-97) that are usually forgiven

Currency: Greek Cypriot area: Cypriot pound (CYP); Turkish Cypriot
area: Turkish lira (TRL)

Currency code: CYP; TRL

Exchange rates: Cypriot pounds per US dollar - 0.6146 (January
2001), 0.6208 (2000), 0.5423 (1999), 0.5170 (1998), 0.5135 (1997),
0.4663 (1996); Turkish liras per US dollar - 677,621 (December
2000), 625,219 (2000), 418,783 (1999), 260,724 (1998), 151,865
(1997), 81,405 (1996)

Fiscal year: calendar year



Cyprus    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: Greek Cypriot area: 405,000 (1998);
Turkish Cypriot area: 83,162 (1998)

Telephones - mobile cellular: Greek Cypriot area: 68,000 (1998);
Turkish Cypriot area: 70,000 (1999)

Telephone system: general assessment:  excellent in both the Greek
Cypriot and Turkish Cypriot areas

domestic:  open wire, fiber-optic cable, and microwave radio relay

international:  tropospheric scatter; 3 coaxial and 5 fiber-optic
submarine cables; satellite earth stations - 3 Intelsat (1 Atlantic
Ocean and 2 Indian Ocean), 2 Eutelsat, 2 Intersputnik, and 1 Arabsat

Radio broadcast stations: Greek Cypriot area: AM 7, FM 60, shortwave
1 (1998); Turkish Cypriot area: AM 3, FM 11, shortwave 1 (1998)

Radios: Greek Cypriot area: 310,000 (1997); Turkish Cypriot area:
56,450 (1994)

Television broadcast stations: Greek Cypriot area: 4 (plus 225
low-power repeaters) (September 1995); Turkish Cypriot area: 4 (plus
5 repeaters) (September 1995)

Televisions: Greek Cypriot area: 248,000 (1997); Turkish Cypriot
area: 52,300 (1994)

Internet country code: .cy

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 6 (2000)

Internet users: 80,000 (2000)



Cyprus    Transportation

Railways: 0 km

Highways: total:  Greek Cypriot area: 10,663 km (1998 est.); Turkish
Cypriot area: 2,350 km (1996 est.)

paved:  Greek Cypriot area: 6,249 km (1998 est.); Turkish Cypriot
area: 1,370 km (1996 est.)

unpaved:  Greek Cypriot area: 4,414 km (1998 est.); Turkish Cypriot
area: 980 km (1996 est.)

Waterways: none

Ports and harbors: Famagusta, Kyrenia, Larnaca, Limassol, Paphos,
Vasilikos

Merchant marine: total:  1,328 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
22,905,542 GRT/36,312,219 DWT

ships by type:  barge carrier 2, bulk 431, cargo 438, chemical
tanker 23, combination bulk 36, combination ore/oil 4, container
140, liquefied gas 6, passenger 8, passenger/cargo 1, petroleum
tanker 143, refrigerated cargo 40, roll on/roll off 42, short-sea
passenger 9, specialized tanker 2, vehicle carrier 3

note:  includes some foreign-owned ships registered here as a flag
of convenience: Austria 8, Belgium 7, China 10, Cuba 10, Denmark 2,
Germany 79, Greece 385, Hong Kong 9, Croatia 2, India 5, Iran 1,
Israel 4, Italy 2, Japan 19, South Korea 3, Latvia 10, Lithuania 1,
Monaco 1, Netherlands 13, Norway 11, Poland 9, Portugal 3, Russia
42, Singapore 1, Spain 5, Sudan 2, Sweden 3, Switzerland 2, UAE 6,
UK 8, Ukraine 2, US 9, Venezuela 2 (2000 est.)

Airports: 15 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  12

2,438 to 3,047 m:  7

1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

914 to 1,523 m:  3

under 914 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  3

914 to 1,523 m:  1

under 914 m:  2 (2000 est.)

Heliports: 7 (2000 est.)



Cyprus    Military

Military branches: Greek Cypriot area: Greek Cypriot National Guard
(GCNG; includes air and naval elements), Hellenic Forces Contingent
on Cyprus (ELDYK), Greek Cypriot Police; Turkish Cypriot area:
Turkish Cypriot Security Force (TCSF), Turkish mainland army units

Military manpower - military age: 18 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  198,275 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
136,147 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  6,616
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $370 million (FY00)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 4.2% (FY00)



Cyprus    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: 1974 hostilities divided the island into
two de facto autonomous areas, a Greek Cypriot area controlled by
the internationally recognized Cypriot Government (59% of the
island's land area) and a Turkish-Cypriot area (37% of the island),
that are separated by a UN buffer zone (4% of the island); there are
two UK sovereign base areas mostly within the Greek Cypriot portion
of the island

Illicit drugs: minor transit point for heroin and hashish via air
routes and container traffic to Europe, especially from Lebanon and
Turkey; some cocaine transits as well

======================================================================

@Czech Republic




Czech Republic    Introduction

Background: After World War II, Czechoslovakia fell within the
Soviet sphere of influence. In 1968, an invasion by Warsaw Pact
troops ended the efforts of the country's leaders to liberalize
party rule and create "socialism with a human face." Anti-Soviet
demonstrations the following year ushered in a period of harsh
repression. With the collapse of Soviet authority in 1989,
Czechoslovakia regained its freedom through a peaceful "Velvet
Revolution." On 1 January 1993, the country underwent a "velvet
divorce" into its two national components, the Czech Republic and
Slovakia. Now a member of NATO, the Czech Republic has moved toward
integration in world markets, a development that poses both
opportunities and risks.



Czech Republic    Geography

Location: Central Europe, southeast of Germany

Geographic coordinates: 49 45 N, 15 30 E

Map references: Europe

Area: total:  78,866 sq km

land:  77,276 sq km

water:  1,590 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly smaller than South Carolina

Land boundaries: total:  1,881 km

border countries:  Austria 362 km, Germany 646 km, Poland 658 km,
Slovakia 215 km

Coastline: 0 km (landlocked)

Maritime claims: none (landlocked)

Climate: temperate; cool summers; cold, cloudy, humid winters

Terrain: Bohemia in the west consists of rolling plains, hills, and
plateaus surrounded by low mountains; Moravia in the east consists
of very hilly country

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Elbe River 115 m

highest point:  Snezka 1,602 m

Natural resources: hard coal, soft coal, kaolin, clay, graphite,
timber

Land use: arable land:  41%

permanent crops:  2%

permanent pastures:  11%

forests and woodland:  34%

other:  12% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 240 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: flooding

Environment - current issues: air and water pollution in areas of
northwest Bohemia and in northern Moravia around Ostrava present
health risks; acid rain damaging forests

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Air Pollution,
Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air Pollution-Sulphur 85, Air
Pollution-Sulphur 94, Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds,
Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification,
Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes,
Law of the Sea, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship
Pollution, Wetlands

signed, but not ratified:  Air Pollution-Persistent Organic
Pollutants, Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol

Geography - note: landlocked; strategically located astride some of
oldest and most significant land routes in Europe; Moravian Gate is
a traditional military corridor between the North European Plain and
the Danube in central Europe



Czech Republic    People

Population: 10,264,212 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  16.09% (male 847,219; female 804,731)

15-64 years:  69.99% (male 3,592,984; female 3,590,802)

65 years and over:  13.92% (male 549,538; female 878,938) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: -0.07% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 9.11 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 10.81 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 0.96 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.06 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.63 male(s)/female

total population:  0.95 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 5.55 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  74.73 years

male:  71.23 years

female:  78.43 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 1.18 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 0.04% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 2,200 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: less than 100 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Czech(s)

adjective:  Czech

Ethnic groups: Czech 81.2%, Moravian 13.2%, Slovak 3.1%, Polish
0.6%, German 0.5%, Silesian 0.4%, Roma 0.3%, Hungarian 0.2%, other
0.5% (1991)

Religions: atheist 39.8%, Roman Catholic 39.2%, Protestant 4.6%,
Orthodox 3%, other 13.4%

Languages: Czech

Literacy: definition:  NA

total population:  99.9% (1999 est.)

male:  NA%

female:  NA%



Czech Republic    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Czech Republic

conventional short form:  Czech Republic

local long form:  Ceska Republika

local short form:  Ceska Republika

Government type: parliamentary democracy

Capital: Prague

Administrative divisions: 13 regions (kraje, singular - kraj) and 1
capital city* (hlavni mesto); Brnensky, Budejovicky, Jihlavsky,
Karlovarsky, Kralovehradecky, Liberecky, Olomoucky, Ostravsky,
Pardubicky, Plzensky, Praha*, Stredocesky, Ustecky, Zlinsky

Independence: 1 January 1993 (Czechoslovakia split into the Czech
Republic and Slovakia)

National holiday: Czech Founding Day, 28 October (1918)

Constitution: ratified 16 December 1992; effective 1 January 1993

Legal system: civil law system based on Austro-Hungarian codes; has
not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction; legal code modified to
bring it in line with Organization on Security and Cooperation in
Europe (OSCE) obligations and to expunge Marxist-Leninist legal
theory

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Vaclav HAVEL (since 2
February 1993)

head of government:  Prime Minister Milos ZEMAN (since 17 July
1998); Deputy Prime Ministers Vladimir SPIDLA (since 22 July 1998),
Pavel RYCHETSKY (since 22 July 1998), Jan KAVAN (since 8 December
1999)

cabinet:  Cabinet appointed by the president on the recommendation
of the prime minister

elections:  president elected by Parliament for a five-year term;
election last held 20 January 1998 (next to be held NA January
2003); prime minister appointed by the president

election results:  Vaclav HAVEL reelected president; Vaclav HAVEL
received 47 of 81 votes in the Senate and 99 out of 200 votes in the
Chamber of Deputies (second round of voting)

Legislative branch: bicameral Parliament or Parlament consists of
the Senate or Senat (81 seats; members are elected by popular vote
to serve six-year terms; one-third elected every two years) and the
Chamber of Deputies or Poslanecka snemovna (200 seats; members are
elected by popular vote to serve four-year terms)

elections:  Senate - last held 12 and 19 November 2000 (next to be
held NA November 2002); Chamber of Deputies - last held 19-20 June
1998 (next to be held by NA June 2002)

election results:  Senate - percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by
party - KDU-CSL 28, ODS 22, CSSD 15, ODA 7, US 4, KSCM 3,
independents 2; Chamber of Deputies - percent of vote by party -
CSSD 32.3%, ODS 27.7%, KSCM 11%, KDU-CSL 9.0%, US 8.6%; seats by
party - CSSD 74, ODS 63, KSCM 24, KDU-CSL 20, US 18, CSNS 1

Judicial branch: Supreme Court; Constitutional Court; chairman and
deputy chairmen are appointed by the president for a 10-year term

Political parties and leaders: Christian and Democratic
Union-Czechoslovak People's Party or KDU-CSL [Jan KASAL, chairman];
Civic Democratic Alliance or ODA [Daniel KROUPA, chairman]; Civic
Democratic Party or ODS [Vaclav KLAUS, chairman]; Communist Party of
Bohemia and Moravia or KSCM [Miroslav GREBENICEK, chairman];
Communist Party of Czechoslovakia or KSC [Miroslav STEPAN,
chairman]; Czech National Social Party of CSNS [Jan SULA, chairman];
Czech Social Democratic Party or CSSD [Milos ZEMAN, chairman];
Democratic Union or DEU [Ratibor MAJZLIK, chairman]; Freedom Union
or US [Karel KUEHNL, chairman]; Quad Coalition [Cyril SVOBODA,
chairman] (includes KDU-CSL, US, ODA, DEU); Republicans of Miroslav
SLADEK or RMS [Miroslav SLADEK, chairman]

Political pressure groups and leaders: Czech-Moravian Confederation
of Trade Unions [Richard FALBR]

International organization participation: ACCT (observer), Australia
Group, BIS, CCC, CE, CEI, CERN, EAPC, EBRD, ECE, EU (applicant),
FAO, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IEA, IFC, IFRCS, ILO,
IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO, ITU, MONUC,
NATO, NEA, NSG, OAS (observer), OECD, OPCW, OSCE, PCA, PFP, UN,
UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNMEE, UNMIBH, UNMIK, UNMOP, UNMOT, UNOMIG,
UPU, WCL, WEU (associate), WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO, ZC

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Alexsandr VONDRA

chancery:  3900 Spring of Freedom Street NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone:  [1] (202) 274-9100

FAX:  [1] (202) 966-8540

consulate(s) general:  Los Angeles and New York

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
(vacant); Charge d'Affaires Steven J. COFFEY

embassy:  Trziste 15, 11801 Prague 1

mailing address:  use embassy street address

telephone:  [420] (2) 5753-0663

FAX:  [420] (2) 5753-0583

Flag description: two equal horizontal bands of white (top) and red
with a blue isosceles triangle based on the hoist side (identical to
the flag of the former Czechoslovakia)



Czech Republic    Economy

Economy - overview: Basically one of the most stable and prosperous
of the post-Communist states, the Czech Republic has been recovering
from recession since mid-1999. The economy grew about 2.5% in 2000
and should achieve somewhat higher growth in 2001. Growth is led by
exports to the EU, especially Germany, and foreign investment, while
domestic demand is reviving. Uncomfortably high fiscal and current
account deficits could be future problems. Unemployment is down to
8.7% as job creation continues in the rebounding economy; inflation
is up to 3.8% but still moderate. The EU put the Czech Republic just
behind Poland and Hungary in preparations for accession, which will
give further impetus and direction to structural reform. Moves to
complete banking, telecommunications and energy privatization will
add to foreign investment, while intensified restructuring among
large enterprises and banks and improvements in the financial sector
should strengthen output growth.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $132.4 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 2.5% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $12,900 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  3.7%

industry:  41.8%

services:  54.5% (1999)

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:
4.3%

highest 10%:  22.4% (1996)

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 3.8% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 5.203 million (1999 est.)

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture 5%, industry 40%, services
55% (2000 est.)

Unemployment rate: 8.7% (2000 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $16.7 billion

expenditures:  $18 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
(2001 est.)

Industries: metallurgy, machinery and equipment, motor vehicles,
glass, armaments

Industrial production growth rate: 7.6% (2000)

Electricity - production: 67.642 billion kWh (2000)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  77.8%

hydro:  3.43%

nuclear:  18.77%

other:  0% (2000)

Electricity - consumption: 52.898 billion kWh (2000)

Electricity - exports: 18.744 billion kWh (2000)

Electricity - imports: 8.735 billion kWh (2000)

Agriculture - products: wheat, potatoes, sugar beets, hops, fruit;
pigs, poultry

Exports: $28.3 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Exports - commodities: machinery and transport equipment 44%, other
manufactured goods 40%, chemicals 7%, raw materials and fuel 7%
(1999)

Exports - partners: Germany 43%, Slovakia 8.4%, Austria 6.6%, Poland
5.6%, France 4% (1999)

Imports: $31.4 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Imports - commodities: machinery and transport equipment 42%, other
manufactured goods 33%, chemicals 12%, raw materials and fuels 10%
(1999)

Imports - partners: Germany 37.5%, Slovakia 6.7%, Austria 6.2%,
Italy 5.9%, France 5.4% (1999)

Debt - external: $21.3 billion (2000)

Economic aid - recipient: $NA

Currency: Czech koruna (CZK)

Currency code: CZK

Exchange rates: koruny per US dollar - 37.425 (January 2001), 38.598
(2000), 34.569 (1999), 32.281 (1998), 31.698 (1997), 27.145 (1996)

Fiscal year: calendar year



Czech Republic    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 3.869 million (2000)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 4.346 million (2000)

Telephone system: general assessment:  privatization and
modernization of the Czech telecommunication system got a late start
but is advancing steadily; growth in the use of mobile cellular
telephones is particularly vigorous

domestic:  86% of exchanges now digital; existing copper subscriber
systems now being enhanced with Asymmetric Digital Subscriber Line
(ADSL) equipment to accommodate Internet and other digital signals;
trunk systems include fiber-optic cable and microwave radio relay

international:  satellite earth stations - 2 Intersputnik (Atlantic
and Indian Ocean regions), 1 Intelsat, 1 Eutelsat, 1 Inmarsat, 1
Globalstar

Radio broadcast stations: AM 31, FM 304, shortwave 17 (2000)

Radios: 3,159,134 (December 2000)

Television broadcast stations: 150 (plus 1,434 repeaters) (2000)

Televisions: 3,405,834 (December 2000)

Internet country code: .cz

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): more than 300 (2000)

Internet users: 900,000 (2000)



Czech Republic    Transportation

Railways: total:  9,444 km

standard gauge:  9,350 km 1.435-m standard gauge (2,843 km
electrified; 1,929 km double track)

narrow gauge:  94 km 0.760-m narrow gauge (2000)

Highways: total:  55,432 km

paved:  55,432 km (including 499 km of expressways)

unpaved:  0 km (2000)

Waterways: 303 km

note:  (the Labe (Elbe) is the principal river) (2000)

Pipelines: natural gas 3,550 km (2000)

Ports and harbors: Decin, Prague, Usti nad Labem

Airports: 114 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  43

over 3,047 m:  2

2,438 to 3,047 m:  10

1,524 to 2,437 m:  14

914 to 1,523 m:  1

under 914 m:  16 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  71

1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

914 to 1,523 m:  28

under 914 m:  42 (2000 est.)

Heliports: 1 (2000 est.)



Czech Republic    Military

Military branches: Army, Air and Air Defense Forces, Territorial
Defense, Railroad Units

Military manpower - military age: 18 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  2,653,456 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
2,024,070 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  69,393
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $1.2 billion (FY01)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 2.2% (FY01)



Czech Republic    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: Liechtenstein's royal family claims
restitution for 1,600 sq km of land in the Czech Republic
confiscated in 1918; individual Sudeten German claims for
restitution of property confiscated in connection with their
expulsion after World War II; Austria has minor dispute with Czech
Republic over nuclear power plants and post-World War II treatment
of German-speaking minorities

Illicit drugs: major transshipment point for Southwest Asian heroin
and minor transit point for Latin American cocaine to Western
Europe; domestic consumption - especially of locally produced
synthetic drugs - on the rise

======================================================================

@Denmark




Denmark    Introduction

Background: Once the seat of Viking raiders and later a major north
European power, Denmark has evolved into a modern, prosperous nation
that is participating in the political and economic integration of
Europe. So far, however, the country has opted out of some aspects
of the European Union's Maastricht Treaty, including the economic
and monetary system (EMU) and issues concerning certain internal
affairs.



Denmark    Geography

Location: Northern Europe, bordering the Baltic Sea and the North
Sea, on a peninsula north of Germany (Jutland); also includes two
major islands (Sjaeland and Fyn)

Geographic coordinates: 56 00 N, 10 00 E

Map references: Europe

Area: total:  43,094 sq km

land:  42,394 sq km

water:  700 sq km

note:  includes the island of Bornholm in the Baltic Sea and the
rest of metropolitan Denmark (the Jutland Peninsula, and the major
islands of Sjaeland and Fyn), but excludes the Faroe Islands and
Greenland

Area - comparative: slightly less than twice the size of
Massachusetts

Land boundaries: total:  68 km

border countries:  Germany 68 km

Coastline: 7,314 km

Maritime claims: contiguous zone:  24 NM

continental shelf:  200-m depth or to the depth of exploitation

exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: temperate; humid and overcast; mild, windy winters and cool
summers

Terrain: low and flat to gently rolling plains

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Lammefjord -7 m

highest point:  Yding Skovhoej 173 m

Natural resources: petroleum, natural gas, fish, salt, limestone,
stone, gravel and sand

Land use: arable land:  60%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  5%

forests and woodland:  10%

other:  25% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 4,350 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: flooding is a threat in some areas of the country
(e.g., parts of Jutland, along the southern coast of the island of
Lolland) that are protected from the sea by a system of dikes

Environment - current issues: air pollution, principally from
vehicle and power plant emissions; nitrogen and phosphorus pollution
of the North Sea; drinking and surface water becoming polluted from
animal wastes and pesticides

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Air Pollution,
Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air Pollution-Sulphur 85, Air
Pollution-Sulphur 94, Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds,
Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification,
Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes,
Marine Dumping, Marine Life Conservation, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone
Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical
Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling

signed, but not ratified:  Air Pollution-Persistent Organic
Pollutants, Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Law of the Sea

Geography - note: controls Danish Straits (Skagerrak and Kattegat)
linking Baltic and North Seas; about one-quarter of the population
lives in greater Copenhagen



Denmark    People

Population: 5,352,815 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  18.59% (male 510,826; female 484,385)

15-64 years:  66.56% (male 1,804,617; female 1,758,019)

65 years and over:  14.85% (male 331,906; female 463,062) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 0.3% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 11.96 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 10.9 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 1.98 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.06 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1.03 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.72 male(s)/female

total population:  0.98 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 5.04 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  76.72 years

male:  74.12 years

female:  79.47 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 1.73 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 0.17% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 4,300 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: less than 100 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Dane(s)

adjective:  Danish

Ethnic groups: Scandinavian, Inuit, Faroese, German, Turkish,
Iranian, Somali

Religions: Evangelical Lutheran 95%, other Protestant and Roman
Catholic 3%, Muslims 2%

Languages: Danish, Faroese, Greenlandic (an Inuit dialect), German
(small minority)

note:  English is the predominant second language

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  100%

male:  NA%

female:  NA%



Denmark    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Kingdom of Denmark

conventional short form:  Denmark

local long form:  Kongeriget Danmark

local short form:  Danmark

Government type: constitutional monarchy

Capital: Copenhagen

Administrative divisions: metropolitan Denmark - 14 counties (amter,
singular - amt) and 2 kommunes*; Arhus, Bornholm, Fredericksberg*,
Frederiksborg, Fyn, Kobenhavn, Kobenhavns*, Nordjylland, Ribe,
Ringkobing, Roskilde, Sonderjylland, Storstrom, Vejle, Vestsjalland,
Viborg

note:  see separate entries for the Faroe Islands and Greenland,
which are part of the Kingdom of Denmark and are self-governing
administrative divisions

Independence: first organized as a unified state in 10th century; in
1849 became a constitutional monarchy

National holiday: none designated; Constitution Day, 5 June is
generally viewed as the National Day

Constitution: 1849 was the original constitution; there was a major
overhaul 5 June 1953, allowing for a unicameral legislature and a
female chief of state

Legal system: civil law system; judicial review of legislative acts;
accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction, with reservations

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  Queen MARGRETHE II (since 14
January 1972); Heir Apparent Crown Prince FREDERIK, elder son of the
monarch (born 26 May 1968)

head of government:  Prime Minister Poul Nyrup RASMUSSEN (since 25
January 1993)

cabinet:  Cabinet appointed by the prime minister and approved by
Parliament

elections:  none; the monarch is hereditary; prime minister
appointed by the monarch

Legislative branch: unicameral Parliament or Folketing (179 seats,
including 2 from Greenland and 2 from the Faroe Islands; members are
elected by popular vote on the basis of proportional representation
to serve four-year terms)

elections:  last held 11 March 1998 (next to be held by March 2002)

election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
progovernment parties: Social Democratic Party 65, Socialist
People's Party 13, Social Liberal Party 7, Red-Green Unity List 5;
opposition: Liberal Party 43, Conservative Party 17, Danish People's
Party 13, Center Democratic Party 8, Christian People's Party 4,
Progress Party 4; seats by party as of 1 January 2001: government
coalition parties - Social Democrats 63, Social Liberals 7;
pro-government parties - Socialist People's Party 13, Unity List 5;
opposition - Liberals 42, Conservatives 16, Danish People's Party
13, Center Democrats 8, Christian People's Party 4, Progress Party 4
(now named Freedom 2000); does not include the 4 overseas seats

Judicial branch: Supreme Court (judges are appointed by the monarch
for life)

Political parties and leaders: Center Democratic Party [Mimi
JAKOBSEN]; Christian People's Party [Jann SJURSEN]; Conservative
Party (sometimes known as Conservative People's Party) [Bendt
BENDTSEN]; Danish People's Party [Pia KJAERSGAARD]; Liberal Party
[Anders Fogh RASMUSSEN]; Progress Party (now named Freedom 2000)
[Kim BEHNKE]; Social Democratic Party [Poul Nyrup RASMUSSEN]; Social
Liberal Party (sometimes called the Radical Left) [Marianne JELVED,
leader; Johannes LEBECH, chairman]; Socialist People's Party [Holger
K. NIELSEN]; Red-Green Unity List (bloc includes Left Socialist
Party, Communist Party of Denmark, Socialist Workers' Party)
[collective leadership]

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: AfDB, AsDB, Australia
Group, BIS, CBSS, CCC, CE, CERN, EAPC, EBRD, ECE, EIB, ESA, EU, FAO,
G- 9, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IEA, IFAD, IFC,
IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM,
ISO, ITU, MONUC, NATO, NC, NEA, NIB, NSG, OAS (observer), OECD,
OPCW, OSCE, PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNIKOM, UNMEE,
UNMIBH, UNMIK, UNMOGIP, UNMOP, UNMOT, UNOMIG, UNTAET, UNTSO, UPU,
WEU (observer), WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTrO, ZC

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Ulrik Andreas FEDERSPIEL

chancery:  3200 Whitehaven Street NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone:  [1] (202) 234-4300

FAX:  [1] (202) 328-1470

consulate(s) general:  Chicago, Los Angeles, and New York

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Stuart BERNSTEIN

embassy:  Dag Hammarskjolds Alle 24, 2100 Copenhagen

mailing address:  PSC 73, APO AE 09716

telephone:  [45] 35 55 31 44

FAX:  [45] 35 38 96 16

Flag description: red with a white cross that extends to the edges
of the flag; the vertical part of the cross is shifted to the hoist
side, and that design element of the Dannebrog (Danish flag) was
subsequently adopted by the other Nordic countries of Finland,
Iceland, Norway, and Sweden



Denmark    Economy

Economy - overview: This thoroughly modern market economy features
high-tech agriculture, up-to-date small-scale and corporate
industry, extensive government welfare measures, comfortable living
standards, and high dependence on foreign trade. Denmark is a net
exporter of food and energy and has a comfortable balance of
payments surplus. The center-left coalition government has reduced
the formerly high unemployment rate and attained a budget surplus as
well as followed the previous government's policies of maintaining
low inflation and a stable currency. The coalition has lowered
marginal income tax rates and raised environmental taxes thus
maintaining overall tax revenues. Problems of bottlenecks, and
longer term demographic changes reducing the labor force, are being
addressed through labor market reforms. The government has been
successful in meeting, and even exceeding, the economic convergence
criteria for participating in the third phase (a common European
currency) of the European Monetary Union (EMU), but Denmark, in a
September 2000 referendum, reconfirmed its decision not to join the
11 other EU members in the euro. Even so, the Danish currency
remains pegged to the euro.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $136.2 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 2.8% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $25,500 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  3%

industry:  25%

services:  72% (2000 est.)

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  2%

highest 10%:  24% (2000 est.)

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 2.9% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 2.856 million (2000 est.)

Labor force - by occupation: services 79%, industry 17%, agriculture
4% (2000 est.)

Unemployment rate: 5.3% (2000)

Budget: revenues:  $52.9 billion

expenditures:  $51.3 billion, including capital expenditures of $500
million (2001 est.)

Industries: food processing, machinery and equipment, textiles and
clothing, chemical products, electronics, construction, furniture,
and other wood products, shipbuilding, windmills

Industrial production growth rate: 3% (2000 est.)

Electricity - production: 37.885 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  88.4%

hydro:  0.07%

nuclear:  0%

other:  11.53% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 32.916 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 7.28 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 4.963 billion kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: grain, potatoes, rape, sugar beets; pork and
beef, dairy products; fish

Exports: $50.8 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Exports - commodities: machinery and instruments, meat and meat
products, dairy products, fish, chemicals, furniture, ships,
windmills

Exports - partners: EU 66.5% (Germany 20.1%, Sweden 11.7%, UK 9.6%,
France 5.3%, Netherlands 4.7%), Norway 5.8%, US 5.4% (1999)

Imports: $43.6 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Imports - commodities: machinery and equipment, raw materials and
semimanufactures for industry, chemicals, grain and foodstuffs,
consumer goods

Imports - partners: EU 72.1% (Germany 21.6%, Sweden 12.4%, UK 8.0%,
Netherlands 8.0%, France 5.8%), Norway 4.2%, US 4.5% (1999)

Debt - external: $21.7 billion (2000)

Economic aid - donor: ODA, $1.63 billion (1999)

Currency: Danish krone (DKK)

Currency code: DKK

Exchange rates: Danish kroner per US dollar - 7.951 (January 2001),
8.083 (2000), 6.976 (1999), 6.701 (1998), 6.604 (1997), 5.799
(1996); note - the Danes rejected the Euro in a 28 September 2000
referendum

Fiscal year: calendar year



Denmark    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 4.785 million (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 1,444,016 (1997)

Telephone system: general assessment:  excellent telephone and
telegraph services

domestic:  buried and submarine cables and microwave radio relay
form trunk network, 4 cellular mobile communications systems

international:  18 submarine fiber-optic cables linking Denmark with
Norway, Sweden, Russia, Poland, Germany, Netherlands, UK, Faroe
Islands, Iceland, and Canada; satellite earth stations - 6 Intelsat,
10 Eutelsat, 1 Orion, 1 Inmarsat (Blaavand-Atlantic-East); note -
the Nordic countries (Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway, and Sweden)
share the Danish earth station and the Eik, Norway, station for
worldwide Inmarsat access (1997)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 2, FM 355, shortwave 0 (1998)

Radios: 6.02 million (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 26 (plus 51 repeaters) (1998)

Televisions: 3.121 million (1997)

Internet country code: .dk

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 13 (2000)

Internet users: 2.3 million (2000)



Denmark    Transportation

Railways: total:  2,859 km (508 km privately owned and operated)

standard gauge:  2,859 km 1.435-m gauge (600 km electrified; 760 km
double track) (1998)

Highways: total:  71,474 km

paved:  71,474 km (including 880 km of expressways)

unpaved:  0 km (1999)

Waterways: 417 km

Pipelines: crude oil 110 km; petroleum products 578 km; natural gas
700 km

Ports and harbors: Abenra, Alborg, Arhus, Copenhagen, Esbjerg,
Fredericia, Kolding, Odense, Roenne (Bornholm), Vejle

Merchant marine: total:  342 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
6,073,489 GRT/8,027,002 DWT

ships by type:  bulk 10, cargo 128, chemical tanker 27, container
76, liquefied gas 26, livestock carrier 6, petroleum tanker 22,
railcar carrier 1, refrigerated cargo 13, roll on/roll off 23,
short-sea passenger 7, specialized tanker 3

note:  includes some foreign-owned ships registered here as a flag
of convenience: Finland 1 (2000 est.)

Airports: 119 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  28

over 3,047 m:  2

2,438 to 3,047 m:  7

1,524 to 2,437 m:  4

914 to 1,523 m:  12

under 914 m:  3 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  91

1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

914 to 1,523 m:  7

under 914 m:  83 (2000 est.)



Denmark    Military

Military branches: Royal Danish Army, Royal Danish Navy, Royal
Danish Air Force, Home Guard

Military manpower - military age: 18 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  1,292,619 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
1,106,094 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  29,212
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $2.47 billion (FY99)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 1.4% (FY99)



Denmark    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: Rockall continental shelf dispute
involving Iceland and the UK (Ireland and the UK have signed a
boundary agreement in the Rockall area); dispute with Iceland over
the Faroe Islands fisheries median line boundary within 200 NM;
disputes with Iceland, the UK, and Ireland over the Faroe Islands
continental shelf boundary outside 200 NM

======================================================================

@Djibouti




Djibouti    Introduction

Background: The French Territory of the Afars and the Issas became
Djibouti in 1977. A peace accord in 1994 ended a three-year uprising
by Afars rebels.



Djibouti    Geography

Location: Eastern Africa, bordering the Gulf of Aden and the Red
Sea, between Eritrea and Somalia

Geographic coordinates: 11 30 N, 43 00 E

Map references: Africa

Area: total:  22,000 sq km

land:  21,980 sq km

water:  20 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly smaller than Massachusetts

Land boundaries: total:  508 km

border countries:  Eritrea 113 km, Ethiopia 337 km, Somalia 58 km

Coastline: 314 km

Maritime claims: contiguous zone:  24 NM

exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: desert; torrid, dry

Terrain: coastal plain and plateau separated by central mountains

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Lac Assal -155 m

highest point:  Moussa Ali 2,028 m

Natural resources: geothermal areas

Land use: arable land:  0%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  9%

forests and woodland:  0%

other:  91% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: NA sq km

Natural hazards: earthquakes; droughts; occasional cyclonic
disturbances from the Indian Ocean bring heavy rains and flash floods

Environment - current issues: inadequate supplies of potable water;
desertification

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species, Law of the Sea,
Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution

signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Geography - note: strategic location near world's busiest shipping
lanes and close to Arabian oilfields; terminus of rail traffic into
Ethiopia; mostly wasteland



Djibouti    People

Population: 460,700 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  42.58% (male 98,314; female 97,859)

15-64 years:  54.58% (male 132,619; female 118,841)

65 years and over:  2.84% (male 6,787; female 6,280) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 2.6% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 40.66 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 14.66 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.03 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1.12 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  1.08 male(s)/female

total population:  1.07 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 101.51 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  51.21 years

male:  49.37 years

female:  53.1 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 5.72 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 11.75% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 37,000 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: 3,100 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Djiboutian(s)

adjective:  Djiboutian

Ethnic groups: Somali 60%, Afar 35%, French, Arab, Ethiopian, and
Italian 5%

Religions: Muslim 94%, Christian 6%

Languages: French (official), Arabic (official), Somali, Afar

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  46.2%

male:  60.3%

female:  32.7% (1995 est.)



Djibouti    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Republic of Djibouti

conventional short form:  Djibouti

former:  French Territory of the Afars and Issas, French Somaliland

Government type: republic

Capital: Djibouti

Administrative divisions: 5 districts (cercles, singular - cercle);
'Ali Sabih, Dikhil, Djibouti, Obock, Tadjoura

Independence: 27 June 1977 (from France)

National holiday: Independence Day, 27 June (1977)

Constitution: multiparty constitution approved by referendum 4
September 1992

Legal system: based on French civil law system, traditional
practices, and Islamic law

Suffrage: NA years of age; universal adult

Executive branch: chief of state:  President GUELLEH Ismail Omar
(since 8 May 1999);

head of government:  Prime Minister DILLEITA Mohamed Dilleita (since
4 March 2001)

cabinet:  Council of Ministers responsible to the president

elections:  president elected by popular vote for a six-year term;
election last held 9 April 1999 (next to be held NA 2005); prime
minister appointed by the president

election results:  GUELLEH Ismail Omar elected president; percent of
vote - GUELLEH Ismail Omar 74.4%, IDRIS Moussa Ahmed 25.6%

Legislative branch: unicameral Chamber of Deputies or Chambre des
Deputes (65 seats; members elected by popular vote for five-year
terms)

elections:  last held 19 December 1997 (next to be held NA 2002)

election results:  percent of vote - NA%; seats - RPP 65; note - RPP
(the ruling party) dominated the election

Judicial branch: Supreme Court or Cour Supreme

Political parties and leaders: Democratic National Party or PND
[ADEN Robleh Awaleh]; Democratic Renewal Party or PRD [Abdillahi
HAMARITEH]; People's Progress Assembly or RPP (governing party)
[Ismail Omar GELLEH]

Political pressure groups and leaders: Front for the Restoration of
Unity and Democracy or FRUD and affiliates; Movement for Unity and
Democracy or MUD

International organization participation: ACCT, ACP, AfDB, AFESD,
AL, AMF, ECA, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD,
IFC, IFRCS, IGAD, ILO, IMF, IMO, Intelsat (nonsignatory user),
Interpol, IOC, ITU, NAM, OAU, OIC, OPCW, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO,
UPU, WFTU, WHO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
ROBLE Olhaye Oudine

chancery:  Suite 515, 1156 15th Street NW, Washington, DC 20005

telephone:  [1] (202) 331-0270

FAX:  [1] (202) 331-0302

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Donald YAMAMOTO

embassy:  Plateau du Serpent, Boulevard Marechal Joffre, Djibouti

mailing address:  B. P. 185, Djibouti

telephone:  [253] 35 39 95

FAX:  [253] 35 39 40

Flag description: two equal horizontal bands of light blue (top) and
light green with a white isosceles triangle based on the hoist side
bearing a red five-pointed star in the center



Djibouti    Economy

Economy - overview: The economy is based on service activities
connected with the country's strategic location and status as a free
trade zone in northeast Africa. Two-thirds of the inhabitants live
in the capital city, the remainder being mostly nomadic herders.
Scanty rainfall limits crop production to fruits and vegetables, and
most food must be imported. Djibouti provides services as both a
transit port for the region and an international transshipment and
refueling center. It has few natural resources and little industry.
The nation is, therefore, heavily dependent on foreign assistance to
help support its balance of payments and to finance development
projects. An unemployment rate of 40% to 50% continues to be a major
problem. Inflation is not a concern, however, because of the fixed
tie of the franc to the US dollar. Per capita consumption dropped an
estimated 35% over the last seven years because of recession, civil
war, and a high population growth rate (including immigrants and
refugees). Faced with a multitude of economic difficulties, the
government has fallen in arrears on long-term external debt and has
been struggling to meet the stipulations of foreign aid donors. The
year 2001 will see only small growth as port activity should
decrease now that Ethiopia has more trade route options.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $574 million (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 2% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $1,300 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  3%

industry:  22%

services:  75% (1998 est.)

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 2% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 282,000

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture 75%, industry 11%, services
14% (1991 est.)

Unemployment rate: 50% (2000 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $133 million

expenditures:  $187 million, including capital expenditures of $NA
(1999 est.)

Industries: limited to a few small-scale enterprises, such as dairy
products and mineral-water bottling

Industrial production growth rate: 3% (1996 est.)

Electricity - production: 180 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  100%

hydro:  0%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 167.4 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: fruits, vegetables; goats, sheep, camels

Exports: $260 million (f.o.b., 1999 est.)

Exports - commodities: reexports, hides and skins, coffee (in
transit)

Exports - partners: Somalia 53%, Yemen 23%, Ethiopia 5%, (1998)

Imports: $440 million (f.o.b., 1999 est.)

Imports - commodities: foods, beverages, transport equipment,
chemicals, petroleum products

Imports - partners: France 13%, Ethiopia 12%, Italy 9%, Saudi Arabia
6%, UK 6% (1998)

Debt - external: $356 million (1999 est.)

Economic aid - recipient: $106.3 million (1995)

Currency: Djiboutian franc (DJF)

Currency code: DJF

Exchange rates: Djiboutian francs per US dollar - 177.721 (fixed
rate since 1973)

Fiscal year: calendar year



Djibouti    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 8,000 (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 203 (1997)

Telephone system: general assessment:  telephone facilities in the
city of Djibouti are adequate as are the microwave radio relay
connections to outlying areas of the country

domestic:  microwave radio relay network

international:  submarine cable to Jiddah, Suez, Sicily, Marseilles,
Colombo, and Singapore; satellite earth stations - 1 Intelsat
(Indian Ocean) and 1 Arabsat; Medarabtel regional microwave radio
relay telephone network

Radio broadcast stations: AM 2, FM 2, shortwave 0 (1998)

Radios: 52,000 (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 1 (plus 5 low-power repeaters) (1998)

Televisions: 28,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .dj

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 1 (2000)

Internet users: 1,000 (2000)



Djibouti    Transportation

Railways: total:  100 km (Djibouti segment of the Addis
Ababa-Djibouti railroad)

narrow gauge:  100 km 1.000-m gauge

note:  Djibouti and Ethiopia plan to revitalize the century-old
railroad that links their capitals by 2003

Highways: total:  2,890 km

paved:  364 km

unpaved:  2,526 km (1996)

Waterways: none

Ports and harbors: Djibouti

Merchant marine: total:  1 ship (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 1,369
GRT/3,030 DWT

ships by type:  cargo 1 (2000 est.)

Airports: 12 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  2

over 3,047 m:  1

2,438 to 3,047 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  10

1,524 to 2,437 m:  2

914 to 1,523 m:  5

under 914 m:  3 (2000 est.)



Djibouti    Military

Military branches: Djibouti National Army (includes Navy and Air
Force)

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  108,038 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
63,589 (2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $23 million (FY97)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 4.5% (FY97)



Djibouti    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

======================================================================

@Dominica




Dominica    Introduction

Background: Dominica was the last of the Caribbean islands to be
colonized by Europeans, due chiefly to the fierce resistance of the
native Caribs. France ceded possession to Great Britain in 1763,
which made the island a colony in 1805. In 1980, two years after
independence, Dominica's fortunes improved when a corrupt and
tyrannical administration was replaced by that of Mary Eugenia
CHARLES, the first female prime minister in the Caribbean, who
remained in office for 15 years.



Dominica    Geography

Location: Caribbean, island between the Caribbean Sea and the North
Atlantic Ocean, about one-half of the way from Puerto Rico to
Trinidad and Tobago

Geographic coordinates: 15 25 N, 61 20 W

Map references: Central America and the Caribbean

Area: total:  754 sq km

land:  754 sq km

water:  0 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly more than four times the size of
Washington, DC

Land boundaries: 0 km

Coastline: 148 km

Maritime claims: contiguous zone:  24 NM

exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: tropical; moderated by northeast trade winds; heavy rainfall

Terrain: rugged mountains of volcanic origin

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Caribbean Sea 0 m

highest point:  Morne Diablatins 1,447 m

Natural resources: timber, hydropower, arable land

Land use: arable land:  9%

permanent crops:  13%

permanent pastures:  3%

forests and woodland:  67%

other:  8% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: NA sq km

Natural hazards: flash floods are a constant threat; destructive
hurricanes can be expected during the late summer months

Environment - current issues: NA

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental
Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer
Protection, Ship Pollution, Whaling

signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements



Dominica    People

Population: 70,786 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  28.72% (male 10,300; female 10,027)

15-64 years:  63.45% (male 23,056; female 21,855)

65 years and over:  7.83% (male 2,267; female 3,281) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: -0.98% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 17.81 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 7.19 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: -20.37 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.03 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.69 male(s)/female

total population:  1.01 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 16.54 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  73.6 years

male:  70.74 years

female:  76.61 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 2.03 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: NA%

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: NA

HIV/AIDS - deaths: NA

Nationality: noun:  Dominican(s)

adjective:  Dominican

Ethnic groups: black, Carib Amerindian

Religions: Roman Catholic 77%, Protestant 15% (Methodist 5%,
Pentecostal 3%, Seventh-Day Adventist 3%, Baptist 2%, other 2%),
none 2%, other 6%

Languages: English (official), French patois

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over has ever attended school

total population:  94%

male:  94%

female:  94% (1970 est.)



Dominica    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Commonwealth of Dominica

conventional short form:  Dominica

Government type: parliamentary democracy; republic within the
Commonwealth

Capital: Roseau

Administrative divisions: 10 parishes; Saint Andrew, Saint David,
Saint George, Saint John, Saint Joseph, Saint Luke, Saint Mark,
Saint Patrick, Saint Paul, Saint Peter

Independence: 3 November 1978 (from UK)

National holiday: Independence Day, 3 November (1978)

Constitution: 3 November 1978

Legal system: based on English common law

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Vernon Lordon SHAW
(since 6 October 1998)

head of government:  Prime Minister Pierre CHARLES (since 1 October
2000); note - assumed post after death of Roosevelt DOUGLAS

cabinet:  Cabinet appointed by the president on the advice of the
prime minister

elections:  president elected by the House of Assembly for a
five-year term; election last held 6 October 1998 (next to be held
NA October 2003); prime minister appointed by the president

election results:  Vernon Lordon SHAW elected president; percent of
legislative vote - NA%

Legislative branch: unicameral House of Assembly (30 seats, 9
appointed senators, 21 elected by popular vote; members serve
five-year terms)

elections:  last held 31 January 2000 (next to be held by NA 2005)

election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party
-DLP 11, UWP 8, DFP 2

Judicial branch: Eastern Caribbean Supreme Court, consisting of the
Court of Appeal and the High Court (located in Saint Lucia; one of
the six judges must reside in Dominica and preside over the Court of
Summary Jurisdiction)

Political parties and leaders: Dominica Freedom Party or DFP
[Charles SAVARIN]; Dominica Labor Party or DLP [Pierre CHARLES];
United Workers Party or UWP [Edison JAMES]

Political pressure groups and leaders: Dominica Liberation Movement
or DLM (a small leftist party)

International organization participation: ACCT, ACP, C, Caricom,
CDB, ECLAC, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS,
ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol, IOC, ITU, NAM (observer), OAS, OECS,
OPANAL, OPCW, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WHO, WIPO, WMO,
WTrO

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Nicholas J. O. LIVERPOOL (resident in Dominica)

chancery:  3216 New Mexico Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20016

telephone:  [1] (202) 364-6781

FAX:  [1] (202) 364-6791

consulate(s) general:  New York

Diplomatic representation from the US: the US does not have an
embassy in Dominica; US interests are served by the embassy in
Bridgetown, Barbados

Flag description: green, with a centered cross of three equal bands
- the vertical part is yellow (hoist side), black, and white and the
horizontal part is yellow (top), black, and white; superimposed in
the center of the cross is a red disk bearing a sisserou parrot
encircled by 10 green, five-pointed stars edged in yellow; the 10
stars represent the 10 administrative divisions (parishes)



Dominica    Economy

Economy - overview: The economy depends on agriculture and is highly
vulnerable to climatic conditions, notably tropical storms.
Agriculture, primarily bananas, accounts for 21% of GDP and employs
40% of the labor force. Development of the tourist industry remains
difficult because of the rugged coastline, lack of beaches, and the
lack of an international airport. Hurricane Luis devastated the
country's banana crop in September 1995; tropical storms had wiped
out one-quarter of the crop in 1994 as well. The subsequent recovery
has been fueled by increases in construction, soap production, and
tourist arrivals. The government is attempting to develop an
offshore financial industry in order to diversify the island's
production base.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $290 million (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 0.5% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $4,000 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  21%

industry:  16%

services:  63% (1999 est.)

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 2.5% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 25,000

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture 40%, industry and commerce
32%, services 28%

Unemployment rate: 20% (1999 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $72 million

expenditures:  $79.9 million, including capital expenditures of
$11.5 million (FY97/98)

Industries: soap, coconut oil, tourism, copra, furniture, cement
blocks, shoes

Industrial production growth rate: -10% (1997 est.)

Electricity - production: 62 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  48.39%

hydro:  51.61%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 57.7 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: bananas, citrus, mangoes, root crops,
coconuts, cocoa; forest and fishery potential not exploited

Exports: $60.7 million (2000 est.)

Exports - commodities: bananas, soap, bay oil, vegetables,
grapefruit, oranges

Exports - partners: Caricom countries 47%, UK 36%, US 7% (1996 est.)

Imports: $126 million (2000 est.)

Imports - commodities: manufactured goods, machinery and equipment,
food, chemicals

Imports - partners: US 41%, Caricom countries 25%, UK 13%,
Netherlands, Canada (1996 est.)

Debt - external: $108.9 million (1999)

Economic aid - recipient: $24.4 million (1995)

Currency: East Caribbean dollar (XCD)

Currency code: XCD

Exchange rates: East Caribbean dollars per US dollar - 2.7000 (fixed
rate since 1976)

Fiscal year: 1 July - 30 June



Dominica    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 19,000 (1996)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 461 (1996)

Telephone system: general assessment:  NA

domestic:  fully automatic network

international:  microwave radio relay and SHF radiotelephone links
to Martinique and Guadeloupe; VHF and UHF radiotelephone links to
Saint Lucia

Radio broadcast stations: AM 3, FM 10, shortwave 0 (1998)

Radios: 46,000 (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 0 (however, there is one cable
television company) (1997)

Televisions: 6,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .dm

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 16 (2000)

Internet users: 2,000 (2000)



Dominica    Transportation

Railways: 0 km

Highways: total:  750 km

paved:  375 km

unpaved:  375 km (2001)

Waterways: none

Ports and harbors: Portsmouth, Roseau

Merchant marine: none (2000 est.)

Airports: 2 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  2

914 to 1,523 m:  2 (2000 est.)



Dominica    Military

Military branches: Commonwealth of Dominica Police Force (includes
Special Service Unit, Coast Guard)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $NA

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: NA%



Dominica    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

Illicit drugs: transshipment point for narcotics bound for the US
and Europe; minor cannabis producer; banking industry is vulnerable
to money laundering

======================================================================

@Dominican Republic




Dominican Republic    Introduction

Background: A legacy of unsettled, mostly non-representative, rule
for much of the 20th century was brought to an end in 1996 when free
and open elections ushered in a new government.



Dominican Republic    Geography

Location: Caribbean, eastern two-thirds of the island of Hispaniola,
between the Caribbean Sea and the North Atlantic Ocean, east of Haiti

Geographic coordinates: 19 00 N, 70 40 W

Map references: Central America and the Caribbean

Area: total:  48,730 sq km

land:  48,380 sq km

water:  350 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly more than twice the size of New
Hampshire

Land boundaries: total:  275 km

border countries:  Haiti 275 km

Coastline: 1,288 km

Maritime claims: contiguous zone:  24 NM

continental shelf:  200 NM or to the edge of the continental margin

exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  6 NM

Climate: tropical maritime; little seasonal temperature variation;
seasonal variation in rainfall

Terrain: rugged highlands and mountains with fertile valleys
interspersed

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Lago Enriquillo -46 m

highest point:  Pico Duarte 3,175 m

Natural resources: nickel, bauxite, gold, silver

Land use: arable land:  21%

permanent crops:  9%

permanent pastures:  43%

forests and woodland:  12%

other:  15% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 2,300 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: lies in the middle of the hurricane belt and
subject to severe storms from June to October; occasional flooding;
periodic droughts

Environment - current issues: water shortages; soil eroding into the
sea damages coral reefs; deforestation; Hurricane Georges damage

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous
Wastes, Marine Dumping, Marine Life Conservation, Nuclear Test Ban,
Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution

signed, but not ratified:  Law of the Sea

Geography - note: shares island of Hispaniola with Haiti (eastern
two-thirds is the Dominican Republic, western one-third is Haiti)



Dominican Republic    People

Population: 8,581,477 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  34.11% (male 1,495,477; female 1,431,406)

15-64 years:  60.99% (male 2,664,679; female 2,569,398)

65 years and over:  4.9% (male 199,240; female 221,277) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 1.63% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 24.77 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 4.7 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: -3.81 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.9 male(s)/female

total population:  1.03 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 34.67 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  73.44 years

male:  71.34 years

female:  75.64 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 2.97 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 2.8% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 130,000 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: 4,900 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Dominican(s)

adjective:  Dominican

Ethnic groups: white 16%, black 11%, mixed 73%

Religions: Roman Catholic 95%

Languages: Spanish

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  82.1%

male:  82%

female:  82.2% (1995 est.)



Dominican Republic    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Dominican Republic

conventional short form:  none

local long form:  Republica Dominicana

local short form:  none

Government type: representative democracy

Capital: Santo Domingo

Administrative divisions: 29 provinces (provincias, singular -
provincia) and 1 district* (distrito); Azua, Baoruco, Barahona,
Dajabon, Distrito Nacional*, Duarte, Elias Pina, El Seibo,
Espaillat, Hato Mayor, Independencia, La Altagracia, La Romana, La
Vega, Maria Trinidad Sanchez, Monsenor Nouel, Monte Cristi, Monte
Plata, Pedernales, Peravia, Puerto Plata, Salcedo, Samana, Sanchez
Ramirez, San Cristobal, San Juan, San Pedro de Macoris, Santiago,
Santiago Rodriguez, Valverde

Independence: 27 February 1844 (from Haiti)

National holiday: Independence Day, 27 February (1844)

Constitution: 28 November 1966

Legal system: based on French civil codes

Suffrage: 18 years of age, universal and compulsory; married persons
regardless of age

note:  members of the armed forces and police cannot vote

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Rafael Hipolito MEJIA
Dominguez (since 16 August 2000); Vice President Milagros
ORTIZ-BOSCH (since 16 August 2000); note - the president is both the
chief of state and head of government

head of government:  President Rafael Hipolito MEJIA Dominguez
(since 16 August 2000); Vice President Milagros ORTIZ-BOSCH (since
16 August 2000); note - the president is both the chief of state and
head of government

cabinet:  Cabinet nominated by the president

elections:  president and vice president elected on the same ticket
by popular vote for four-year term; election last held 16 May 2000
(next to be held NA May 2004)

election results:  Raphael Hipolito MEJIA Dominguez elected
president; percent of vote - Rafael Hipolito MEJIA Dominguez (PRD)
49.87%, Danilo MEDINA (PLD) 24.95%, Joaquin BALAGUER (PRSC) 24.6%

Legislative branch: bicameral National Congress or Congreso Nacional
consists of the Senate or Senado (30 seats; members are elected by
popular vote to serve four-year terms) and the Chamber of Deputies
or Camara de Diputados (149 seats; members are elected by popular
vote to serve four-year terms)

elections:  Senate - last held 16 May 1998 (next to be held NA May
2002); Chamber of Deputies - last held 16 May 1998 (next to be held
NA May 2002)

election results:  Senate - percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by
party - PRD 24, PLD 3, PRSC 3; Chamber of Deputies - percent of vote
by party - NA%; seats by party - PRD 83, PLD 49, PRSC 17

Judicial branch: Supreme Court or Corte Suprema (judges are elected
by a Council made up of members of the legislative and executive
branches with the president presiding)

Political parties and leaders: Dominican Liberation Party or PLD
[Leonel FERNANDEZ Reyna]; Dominican Revolutionary Party or PRD
[Hatuey DE CAMPS]; Social Christian Reformist Party or PRSC [Joaquin
BALAGUER Ricardo]

Political pressure groups and leaders: Collective of Popular
Organizations or COP

International organization participation: ACP, Caricom (observer),
ECLAC, FAO, G-11, G-77, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA,
IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM,
ISO (subscriber), ITU, LAES, LAIA (observer), NAM (observer), OAS,
OPANAL, OPCW, PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WFTU, WHO,
WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Roberto Bienvenido SALADIN-SELIN

chancery:  1715 22nd Street NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone:  [1] (202) 332-6280

FAX:  [1] (202) 265-8057

consulate(s) general:  Boston, Chicago, Mayaguez (Puerto Rico),
Miami, New Orleans, New York, Philadelphia, San Francisco, and San
Juan (Puerto Rico)

consulate(s):  Houston, Jacksonville, Mobile, and Ponce (Puerto Rico)

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Charles T. MANATT

embassy:  corner of Calle Cesar Nicolas Penson and Calle Leopoldo
Navarro, Santo Domingo

mailing address:  Unit 5500, APO AA 34041-5500

telephone:  [1] (809) 221-2171

FAX:  [1] (809) 686-7437

Flag description: a centered white cross that extends to the edges
divides the flag into four rectangles - the top ones are blue (hoist
side) and red, and the bottom ones are red (hoist side) and blue; a
small coat of arms is at the center of the cross



Dominican Republic    Economy

Economy - overview: The Dominican economy experienced dramatic
growth over the last decade, even though the economy was hit hard by
Hurricane Georges in 1998. Although the country has long been viewed
primarily as an exporter of sugar, coffee, and tobacco, in recent
years the service sector has overtaken agriculture as the economy's
largest employer, due to growth in tourism and free trade zones. The
country suffers from marked income inequality; the poorest half of
the population receives less than one-fifth of GNP, while the
richest ten percent enjoy 40% of national income. In December 2000,
the new MEJIA administration passed broad new tax legislation which
it hopes will provide enough revenue to offset rising oil prices and
to service foreign debt.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $48.3 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 8% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $5,700 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  11.3%

industry:  32.2%

services:  56.5% (1999 est.)

Population below poverty line: 25% (1999 est.)

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:
1.6%

highest 10%:  39.6% (1989)

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 7.9% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 2.3 million - 2.6 million

Labor force - by occupation: services and government 58.7%, industry
24.3%, agriculture 17% (1998 est.)

Unemployment rate: 13.8% (1999 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $2.3 billion

expenditures:  $2.9 billion, including capital expenditures of $867
million (1999 est.)

Industries: tourism, sugar processing, ferronickel and gold mining,
textiles, cement, tobacco

Industrial production growth rate: 8% (2000 est.)

Electricity - production: 7.29 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  87.19%

hydro:  12.4%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0.41% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 6.78 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: sugarcane, coffee, cotton, cocoa, tobacco,
rice, beans, potatoes, corn, bananas; cattle, pigs, dairy products,
beef, eggs

Exports: $5.8 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Exports - commodities: ferronickel, sugar, gold, silver, coffee,
cocoa, tobacco, meats

Exports - partners: US 66.1%, Netherlands 7.8%, Canada 7.6%, Russia
7.4%, UK 4.5% (1999 est.)

Imports: $9.6 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Imports - commodities: foodstuffs, petroleum, cotton and fabrics,
chemicals and pharmaceuticals

Imports - partners: US 25.7%, Venezuela 9.2%, Mexico 4%, Japan 3%,
Panama 2.6% (1999 est.)

Debt - external: $4.7 billion (2000 est.)

Economic aid - recipient: $239.6 million (1995)

Currency: Dominican peso (DOP)

Currency code: DOP

Exchange rates: Dominican pesos per US dollar - 16.888 (January
2001), 16.415 (2000), 16.033 (1999), 15.267 (1998), 14.265 (1997),
13.775 (1996)

Fiscal year: calendar year



Dominican Republic    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 709,000 (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 130,149 (1997)

Telephone system: general assessment:  NA

domestic:  relatively efficient system based on islandwide microwave
radio relay network

international:  1 coaxial submarine cable; satellite earth station -
1 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 120, FM 56, shortwave 4 (1998)

Radios: 1.44 million (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 25 (1997)

Televisions: 770,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .do

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 24 (2000)

Internet users: 25,000 (1999)



Dominican Republic    Transportation

Railways: total:  757 km

standard gauge:  375 km 1.435-m gauge (Central Romana Railroad)

narrow gauge:  142 km 0.762-m gauge (Dominican Republic Government
Railway)

note:  240 km operated by sugar companies in various gauges
(0.558-m, 0.762-m, 1.067-m gauges) (2000)

Highways: total:  12,600 km

paved:  6,224 km

unpaved:  6,376 km (1996)

Waterways: none

Pipelines: crude oil 96 km; petroleum products 8 km

Ports and harbors: Barahona, La Romana, Puerto Plata, San Pedro de
Macoris, Santo Domingo

Merchant marine: total:  1 ship (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 1,587
GRT/1,165 DWT

ships by type:  cargo 1 (2000 est.)

Airports: 29 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  13

over 3,047 m:  3

2,438 to 3,047 m:  2

1,524 to 2,437 m:  4

914 to 1,523 m:  3

under 914 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  16

1,524 to 2,437 m:  2

914 to 1,523 m:  4

under 914 m:  10 (2000 est.)



Dominican Republic    Military

Military branches: Army, Navy, Air Force, National Police

Military manpower - military age: 18 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  2,281,035 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
1,430,776 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  87,404
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $180 million (FY98)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 1.1% (FY98)



Dominican Republic    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

Illicit drugs: transshipment point for South American drugs destined
for the US and Europe; has become a transshipment point for ecstasy
from the Netherlands and Belgium destined for US and Canada

======================================================================

@Ecuador




Ecuador    Introduction

Background: The "Republic of the Equator" was one of three countries
that emerged from the collapse of Gran Colombia in 1830 (the others
being Colombia and Venezuela). Between 1904 and 1942, Ecuador lost
territories in a series of conflicts with its neighbors. A border
war with Peru that flared in 1995 was resolved in 1999.



Ecuador    Geography

Location: Western South America, bordering the Pacific Ocean at the
Equator, between Colombia and Peru

Geographic coordinates: 2 00 S, 77 30 W

Map references: South America

Area: total:  283,560 sq km

land:  276,840 sq km

water:  6,720 sq km

note:  includes Galapagos Islands

Area - comparative: slightly smaller than Nevada

Land boundaries: total:  2,010 km

border countries:  Colombia 590 km, Peru 1,420 km

Coastline: 2,237 km

Maritime claims: continental shelf:  claims continental shelf
between mainland and Galapagos Islands

territorial sea:  200 NM

Climate: tropical along coast, becoming cooler inland at higher
elevations; tropical in Amazonian jungle lowlands

Terrain: coastal plain (costa), inter-Andean central highlands
(sierra), and flat to rolling eastern jungle (oriente)

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Pacific Ocean 0 m

highest point:  Chimborazo 6,267 m

Natural resources: petroleum, fish, timber, hydropower

Land use: arable land:  6%

permanent crops:  5%

permanent pastures:  18%

forests and woodland:  56%

other:  15% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 5,560 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: frequent earthquakes, landslides, volcanic
activity; periodic droughts

Environment - current issues: deforestation; soil erosion;
desertification; water pollution; pollution from oil production
wastes

Environment - international agreements: party to:
Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification,
Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer
Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94,
Wetlands

signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Geography - note: Cotopaxi in Andes is highest active volcano in
world



Ecuador    People

Population: 13,183,978 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  35.8% (male 2,398,801; female 2,320,537)

15-64 years:  59.81% (male 3,900,193; female 3,984,797)

65 years and over:  4.39% (male 269,372; female 310,278) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 2% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 25.99 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 5.44 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: -0.55 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.03 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  0.98 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.87 male(s)/female

total population:  0.99 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 34.08 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  71.33 years

male:  68.52 years

female:  74.28 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 3.12 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 0.29% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 19,000 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: 1,400 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Ecuadorian(s)

adjective:  Ecuadorian

Ethnic groups: mestizo (mixed Amerindian and white) 65%, Amerindian
25%, Spanish and others 7%, black 3%

Religions: Roman Catholic 95%

Languages: Spanish (official), Amerindian languages (especially
Quechua)

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  90.1%

male:  92%

female:  88.2% (1995 est.)



Ecuador    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Republic of Ecuador

conventional short form:  Ecuador

local long form:  Republica del Ecuador

local short form:  Ecuador

Government type: republic

Capital: Quito

Administrative divisions: 22 provinces (provincias, singular -
provincia); Azuay, Bolivar, Canar, Carchi, Chimborazo, Cotopaxi, El
Oro, Esmeraldas, Galapagos, Guayas, Imbabura, Loja, Los Rios,
Manabi, Morona-Santiago, Napo, Orellana, Pastaza, Pichincha,
Sucumbios, Tungurahua, Zamora-Chinchipe

Independence: 24 May 1822 (from Spain)

National holiday: Independence Day (independence of Quito), 10
August (1809)

Constitution: 10 August 1998

Legal system: based on civil law system; has not accepted compulsory
ICJ jurisdiction

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal, compulsory for literate
persons ages 18-65, optional for other eligible voters

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Gustavo NOBOA Bejarano
(since 22 January 2000) selected president following coup that
deposed President MAHUAD; Vice President Pedro PINTO Rubianes (since
28 January 2000) elected by National Congress from a slate of
candidates submitted by President NABOA; note - the president is
both the chief of state and head of government

head of government:  President Gustavo NOBOA Bejarano (since 22
January 2000) selected president following coup that deposed
President MAHUAD; Vice President Pedro PINTO Rubianes (since 28
January 2000) elected by National Congress from a slate of
candidates submitted by President NABOA; note - the president is
both the chief of state and head of government

cabinet:  Cabinet appointed by the president

elections:  president and vice president elected on the same ticket
by popular vote for four-year term (no reelection); election last
held 31 May 1998; runoff election held 12 July 1998 (next to be held
NA 2002)

election results:  results of the last election prior to the coup
were: Jamil MAHUAD elected president; percent of vote - 51%

note:  a military-indigenous coup toppled democratically elected
President Jamil MAHAUD on 21 January 2000; the military quickly
handed power over to Vice President Gustavo NOBOA on 22 January;
National Congress then elected a new vice president from a slate of
candidates submitted by NOBOA; the new administration is scheduled
to complete the remainder of MAHAUD's term, due to expire in January
2003

Legislative branch: unicameral National Congress or Congreso
Nacional (121 seats; 79 members are popularly elected at-large
nationally to serve four-year terms; 42 members are popularly
elected by province - two per province - for four-year terms)

elections:  last held 31 May 1998 (next to be held NA 2002)

election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
DP 32, PSC 27, PRE 24, ID 18, P-NP 9, FRA 5, PCE 3, MPD 2, CFP 1;
note - defections by members of National Congress are commonplace,
resulting in frequent changes in the numbers of seats held by the
various parties

Judicial branch: Supreme Court or Corte Suprema (new justices are
elected by the full Supreme Court)

Political parties and leaders: Concentration of Popular Forces or
CFP [Averroes BUCARAM]; Democratic Left or ID [Rodrigo BORJA
Cevallos]; Ecuadorian Conservative Party or PCE [Sixto DURAN
Ballen]; Independent National Movement or MIN [leader NA];
Pachakutik-New Country or P-NP [Rafael PANDAM]; Popular Democracy or
DP [Ramiro RIVERA]; Popular Democratic Movement or MPD [leader NA];
Radical Alfarista Front or FRA [Fabian ALARCON, director]; Roldosist
Party or PRE [Abdala BUCARAM Ortiz, director]; Social Christian
Party or PSC [Jaime NEBOT Saadi, president]

Political pressure groups and leaders: Confederation of Indigenous
Nationalities of Ecuador or CONAIE [Antonio VARGAS]; Coordinator of
Social Movements or CMS [F. Napoleon SANTOS]; Popular Front or FP
[Luis VILLACIS]

International organization participation: CAN, CCC, ECLAC, FAO,
G-11, G-77, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IFAD,
IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO,
ITU, LAES, LAIA, NAM, OAS, OPANAL, OPCW, PCA, RG, UN, UNCTAD,
UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Ivonne A-BAKI

chancery:  2535 15th Street NW, Washington, DC 20009

telephone:  [1] (202) 234-7200

FAX:  [1] (202) 667-3482

consulate(s) general:  Chicago, Houston, Los Angeles, Miami, New
Orleans, New York, Newark, Philadelphia, and San Francisco

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Gwen C. CLARE

embassy:  Avenida 12 de Octubre y Avenida Patria, Quito

mailing address:  APO AA 34039

telephone:  [593] (2) 562-890

FAX:  [593] (2) 502-052

consulate(s) general:  Guayaquil

Flag description: three horizontal bands of yellow (top, double
width), blue, and red with the coat of arms superimposed at the
center of the flag; similar to the flag of Colombia which is shorter
and does not bear a coat of arms



Ecuador    Economy

Economy - overview: Ecuador has substantial oil resources and rich
agricultural areas. Because the country exports primary products
such as oil, bananas, and shrimp, fluctuations in world market
prices can have a substantial domestic impact. Ecuador joined the
World Trade Organization in 1996, but has failed to comply with many
of its accession commitments. In recent years, growth has been
uneven due to ill-conceived fiscal stabilization measures. The
aftermath of El Nino and depressed oil market of 1997-98 drove
Ecuador's economy into a free-fall in 1999. The beginning of 1999
saw the banking sector collapse, which helped precipitate an
unprecedented default on external loans later that year. Continued
economic instability drove a 70% depreciation of the currency
throughout 1999, which eventually forced a desperate government to
"dollarize" the currency regime in 2000. The move stabilized the
currency, but did not stave off the ouster of the government. The
new president, Gustavo NOBOA has yet to complete negotiations for a
long sought IMF accord. He will find it difficult to push through
the reforms necessary to make "dollarization" work in the long run.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $37.2 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 0.8% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $2,900 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  14%

industry:  36%

services:  50% (1999 est.)

Population below poverty line: 50% (1999 est.)

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:
2.2%

highest 10%:  33.8% (1995)

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 96% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 4.2 million

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture 30%, industry 25%, services
45% (1999 est.)

Unemployment rate: 13%; note - widespread underemployment (2000 est.)

Budget: revenues:  planned $5.1 billion (not including revenue from
potential privatizations)

expenditures:  $5.1 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
(1999)

Industries: petroleum, food processing, textiles, metal work, paper
products, wood products, chemicals, plastics, fishing, lumber

Industrial production growth rate: 2.4% (1997 est.)

Electricity - production: 10.065 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  29.51%

hydro:  70.49%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 9.386 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 25 million kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: bananas, coffee, cocoa, rice, potatoes,
manioc (tapioca), plantains, sugarcane; cattle, sheep, pigs, beef,
pork, dairy products; balsa wood; fish, shrimp

Exports: $5.6 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Exports - commodities: petroleum, bananas, shrimp, coffee, cocoa,
cut flowers, fish

Exports - partners: US 37%, Colombia 5%, Italy 5%, Chile 5%, Peru 4%
(1999)

Imports: $3.4 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Imports - commodities: machinery and equipment, raw materials,
fuels; consumer goods

Imports - partners: US 30%, Colombia 13%, Venezuela 6%, Japan 5%,
Venezuela 6%, Mexico 3% (1998)

Debt - external: $15 billion (1999)

Economic aid - recipient: $695.7 million (1995)

Currency: US dollar (USD)

Currency code: USD

Exchange rates: sucres per US dollar - 25,000 (January 2001),
24,988.4 (2000), 11,786.8 (1999), 5,446.6 (1998), 3,988.3 (1997),
3,189.5 (1996)

note:  on 7 January 2000, the government passed a decree
"dollarizing" the economy; on 13 March 2000, the National Congress
approved a new exchange system whereby the US dollar is adopted as
the main legal tender in Ecuador for all purposes; on 20 March 2000,
the Central Bank of Ecuador started to exchange sucres for US
dollars at a fixed rate of 25,000 sucres per US dollar; since 30
April 2000, all transactions are denominated in US dollars

Fiscal year: calendar year



Ecuador    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 899,000 (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 160,061 (1997)

Telephone system: general assessment:  NA

domestic:  facilities generally inadequate and unreliable

international:  satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 392, FM 27, shortwave 29 (1998)

Radios: 4.15 million (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 15 (including one station on the
Galapagos Islands) (1997)

Televisions: 1.55 million (1997)

Internet country code: .ec

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 13 (2000)

Internet users: 20,000 (2000)



Ecuador    Transportation

Railways: total:  965 km

narrow gauge:  965 km 1.067-m gauge (2000)

Highways: total:  43,197 km

paved:  8,165 km

unpaved:  35,032 km (1999 est.)

Waterways: 1,500 km

Pipelines: crude oil 800 km; petroleum products 1,358 km

Ports and harbors: Esmeraldas, Guayaquil, La Libertad, Manta, Puerto
Bolivar, San Lorenzo

Merchant marine: total:  30 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
233,312 GRT/385,784 DWT

ships by type:  cargo 2, chemical tanker 1, liquefied gas 1,
passenger 3, petroleum tanker 22, specialized tanker 1 (2000 est.)

Airports: 180 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  59

over 3,047 m:  2

2,438 to 3,047 m:  5

1,524 to 2,437 m:  18

914 to 1,523 m:  15

under 914 m:  19 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  121

914 to 1,523 m:  32

under 914 m:  89 (2000 est.)

Heliports: 1 (2000 est.)



Ecuador    Military

Military branches: Army (Ejercito Ecuatoriano), Navy (Armada
Ecuatoriana, includes Marines), Air Force (Fuerza Aerea
Ecuatoriana), National Police (Policia Nacional)

Military manpower - military age: 20 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  3,382,567 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
2,280,899 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  132,978
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $720 million (FY98)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 3.4% (FY98)



Ecuador    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

Illicit drugs: significant transit country for cocaine and
derivatives of coca originating in Colombia and Peru; importer of
precursor chemicals used in production of illicit narcotics;
important money-laundering hub; increased activity on the northern
frontier by trafficking groups and Colombian insurgents

======================================================================

@Egypt




Egypt    Introduction

Background: Nominally independent from the UK in 1922, Egypt
acquired full sovereignty following World War II. The completion of
the Aswan High Dam in 1971 and the resultant Lake Nasser have
altered the time-honored place of the Nile river in the agriculture
and ecology of Egypt. A rapidly growing population (the largest in
the Arab world), limited arable land, and dependence on the Nile all
continue to overtax resources and stress society. The government has
struggled to ready the economy for the new millennium through
economic reform and massive investment in communications and
physical infrastructure.



Egypt    Geography

Location: Northern Africa, bordering the Mediterranean Sea, between
Libya and the Gaza Strip

Geographic coordinates: 27 00 N, 30 00 E

Map references: Africa

Area: total:  1,001,450 sq km

land:  995,450 sq km

water:  6,000 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly more than three times the size of New
Mexico

Land boundaries: total:  2,689 km

border countries:  Gaza Strip 11 km, Israel 255 km, Libya 1,150 km,
Sudan 1,273 km

Coastline: 2,450 km

Maritime claims: contiguous zone:  24 NM

continental shelf:  200-m depth or to the depth of exploitation

exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: desert; hot, dry summers with moderate winters

Terrain: vast desert plateau interrupted by Nile valley and delta

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Qattara Depression -133 m

highest point:  Mount Catherine 2,629 m

Natural resources: petroleum, natural gas, iron ore, phosphates,
manganese, limestone, gypsum, talc, asbestos, lead, zinc

Land use: arable land:  2%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  0%

forests and woodland:  0%

other:  98% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 32,460 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: periodic droughts; frequent earthquakes, flash
floods, landslides, volcanic activity; hot, driving windstorm called
khamsin occurs in spring; dust storms, sandstorms

Environment - current issues: agricultural land being lost to
urbanization and windblown sands; increasing soil salination below
Aswan High Dam; desertification; oil pollution threatening coral
reefs, beaches, and marine habitats; other water pollution from
agricultural pesticides, raw sewage, and industrial effluents; very
limited natural fresh water resources away from the Nile which is
the only perennial water source; rapid growth in population
overstraining natural resources

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental
Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping,
Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical
Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands

signed, but not ratified:  Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol

Geography - note: controls Sinai Peninsula, only land bridge between
Africa and remainder of Eastern Hemisphere; controls Suez Canal,
shortest sea link between Indian Ocean and Mediterranean Sea; size,
and juxtaposition to Israel, establish its major role in Middle
Eastern geopolitics; dependence on upstream neighbors; dominance of
Nile basin issues; prone to influxes of refugees



Egypt    People

Population: 69,536,644 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  34.59% (male 12,313,585; female
11,739,072)

15-64 years:  61.6% (male 21,614,284; female 21,217,978)

65 years and over:  3.81% (male 1,160,967; female 1,490,758) (2001
est.)

Population growth rate: 1.69% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 24.89 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 7.7 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: -0.24 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1.02 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.78 male(s)/female

total population:  1.02 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 60.46 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  63.69 years

male:  61.62 years

female:  65.85 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 3.07 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 0.02% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: NA

HIV/AIDS - deaths: NA

Nationality: noun:  Egyptian(s)

adjective:  Egyptian

Ethnic groups: Eastern Hamitic stock (Egyptians, Bedouins, and
Berbers) 99%, Greek, Nubian, Armenian, other European (primarily
Italian and French) 1%

Religions: Muslim (mostly Sunni) 94%, Coptic Christian and other 6%

Languages: Arabic (official), English and French widely understood
by educated classes

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  51.4%

male:  63.6%

female:  38.8% (1995 est.)



Egypt    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Arab Republic of Egypt

conventional short form:  Egypt

local long form:  Jumhuriyat Misr al-Arabiyah

local short form:  Misr

former:  United Arab Republic (with Syria)

Government type: republic

Capital: Cairo

Administrative divisions: 26 governorates (muhafazat, singular -
muhafazah); Ad Daqahliyah, Al Bahr al Ahmar, Al Buhayrah, Al Fayyum,
Al Gharbiyah, Al Iskandariyah, Al Isma'iliyah, Al Jizah, Al
Minufiyah, Al Minya, Al Qahirah, Al Qalyubiyah, Al Wadi al Jadid,
Ash Sharqiyah, As Suways, Aswan, Asyut, Bani Suwayf, Bur Sa'id,
Dumyat, Janub Sina', Kafr ash Shaykh, Matruh, Qina, Shamal Sina',
Suhaj

Independence: 28 February 1922 (from UK)

National holiday: Revolution Day, 23 July (1952)

Constitution: 11 September 1971

Legal system: based on English common law, Islamic law, and
Napoleonic codes; judicial review by Supreme Court and Council of
State (oversees validity of administrative decisions); accepts
compulsory ICJ jurisdiction, with reservations

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal and compulsory

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Mohammed Hosni MUBARAK
(since 14 October 1981)

head of government:  Prime Minister Atef OBEID (since 5 October 1999)

cabinet:  Cabinet appointed by the president

elections:  president nominated by the People's Assembly for a
six-year term, the nomination must then be validated by a national,
popular referendum; national referendum last held 26 September 1999
(next to be held NA October 2005); prime minister appointed by the
president

election results:  national referendum validated President MUBARAK's
nomination by the People's Assembly to a fourth term

Legislative branch: bicameral system consists of the People's
Assembly or Majlis al-Sha'b (454 seats; 444 elected by popular vote,
10 appointed by the president; members serve five-year terms) and
the Advisory Council or Majlis al-Shura - which functions only in a
consultative role (264 seats; 176 elected by popular vote, 88
appointed by the president; members serve NA-year terms)

elections:  People's Assembly - three-phase voting - last held 19
October, 29 October, 8 November 2000 (next to be held NA November
2005); Advisory Council - last held 7 June 1995 (next to be held NA)

election results:  People's Assembly - percent of vote by party -
NDP 88%, independents 8%, opposition 4%; seats by party - NDP 398,
NWP 7, Tagammu 6, Nasserists 2, LSP 1, independents 38, undecided 2;
Advisory Council - percent of vote by party - NDP 99%, independents
1%; seats by party - NA

Judicial branch: Supreme Constitutional Court

Political parties and leaders: Nasserist Arab Democratic Party or
Nasserists [Dia' al-din DAWUD]; National Democratic Party or NDP
[President Mohammed Hosni MUBARAK, leader] - governing party;
National Progressive Unionist Grouping or Tagammu [Khalid MUHI
AL-DIN]; New Wafd Party or NWP [No'man GOMA]; Socialist Liberal
Party or LSP [leader NA]

note:  formation of political parties must be approved by government

Political pressure groups and leaders: despite a constitutional ban
against religious-based parties, the technically illegal Muslim
Brotherhood constitutes MUBARAK's potentially most significant
political opposition; MUBARAK tolerated limited political activity
by the Brotherhood for his first two terms, but moved more
aggressively since then to block its influence; civic society groups
are sanctioned, but constrained in practical terms; trade unions and
professional associations are officially sanctioned

International organization participation: ABEDA, ACC, ACCT
(associate), AfDB, AFESD, AL, AMF, BSEC (observer), CAEU, CCC, EBRD,
ECA, ESCWA, FAO, G-15, G-19, G-24, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC,
ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat,
Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO, ITU, MINURSO, MONUC, NAM, OAPEC,
OAS (observer), OAU, OIC, OSCE (partner), PCA, UN, UNAMSIL, UNCTAD,
UNESCO, UNIDO, UNITAR, UNMIBH, UNMIK, UNMOP, UNOMIG, UNRWA, UNTAET,
UPU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Nabil FAHMY

chancery:  3521 International Court NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone:  [1] (202) 895-5400

FAX:  [1] (202) 244-4319, 5131

consulate(s) general:  Chicago, Houston, New York, and San Francisco

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Daniel C. KURTZER

embassy:  5 Latin America St., Garden City, Cairo

mailing address:  Unit 64900, APO AE 09839-4900

telephone:  [20] (2) 795-7371

FAX:  [20] (2) 797-2000

Flag description: three equal horizontal bands of red (top), white,
and black with the national emblem (a shield superimposed on a
golden eagle facing the hoist side above a scroll bearing the name
of the country in Arabic) centered in the white band; similar to the
flag of Yemen, which has a plain white band; also similar to the
flag of Syria, which has two green stars, and to the flag of Iraq,
which has three green stars (plus an Arabic inscription) in a
horizontal line centered in the white band



Egypt    Economy

Economy - overview: A series of IMF arrangements - along with
massive external debt relief resulting from Egypt's participation in
the Gulf war coalition - helped Egypt improve its macroeconomic
performance during the 1990s. Sound fiscal and monetary policies
through the mid-1990s helped to tame inflation, slash budget
deficits, and build up foreign reserves, while structural reforms
such as privatization and new business legislation prompted
increased foreign investment. By mid-1998, however, the pace of
structural reform slackened, and lower combined hard currency
earnings resulted in pressure on the Egyptian pound and sporadic US
dollar shortages. External payments were not in crisis, but Cairo's
attempts to curb demand for foreign exchange convinced some
investors and currency traders that government financial operations
lacked transparency and coordination. Monetary pressures have since
eased, however, with the 1999-2000 higher oil prices, a rebound in
tourism, and a series of mini-devaluations of the pound. The
development of a gas export market is a major plus factor in future
growth.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $247 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 5% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $3,600 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  17%

industry:  32%

services:  51% (1999)

Population below poverty line: 22.9% (FY95/96 est.)

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:
4.4%

highest 10%:  25% (1995)

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 3% (2000)

Labor force: 19.9 million (2000 est.)

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture 29%, services 49%, industry
22% (FY99)

Unemployment rate: 11.5% (2000 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $22.6 billion

expenditures:  $26.2 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
(FY99)

Industries: textiles, food processing, tourism, chemicals,
hydrocarbons, construction, cement, metals

Industrial production growth rate: 2.1% (2000 est.)

Electricity - production: 64.685 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  76.59%

hydro:  23.41%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 60.157 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: cotton, rice, corn, wheat, beans, fruits,
vegetables; cattle, water buffalo, sheep, goats

Exports: $7.3 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Exports - commodities: crude oil and petroleum products, cotton,
textiles, metal products, chemicals

Exports - partners: EU 35%, Middle East 17%, Afro-Asian countries
14%, US 12% (1999)

Imports: $17 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Imports - commodities: machinery and equipment, foodstuffs,
chemicals, wood products, fuels

Imports - partners: EU 36%, US 14%, Afro-Asian countries 14%, Middle
East 6% (1999)

Debt - external: $31 billion (2000 est.)

Economic aid - recipient: ODA, $2.25 billion (1999)

Currency: Egyptian pound (EGP)

Currency code: EGP

Exchange rates: Egyptian pounds per US dollar - market rate - 3.8400
(January 2001), 3.6900 (2000), 3.4050 (1999), 3.3880 (1998), 3.3880
(1997), 3.3880 (1996)

Fiscal year: 1 July - 30 June



Egypt    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 3,971,500 (December 1998)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 380,000 (1999)

Telephone system: general assessment:  large system; underwent
extensive upgrading during 1990s and is reasonably modern; Internet
access and cellular service are available

domestic:  principal centers at Alexandria, Cairo, Al Mansurah,
Ismailia, Suez, and Tanta are connected by coaxial cable and
microwave radio relay

international:  satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat (Atlantic
Ocean and Indian Ocean), 1 Arabsat, and 1 Inmarsat; 5 coaxial
submarine cables; tropospheric scatter to Sudan; microwave radio
relay to Israel; a participant in Medarabtel and a signatory to
Project Oxygen (a global submarine fiber-optic cable system)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 42 (plus 15 repeaters), FM 14,
shortwave 3 (1999)

Radios: 20.5 million (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 98 (September 1995)

Televisions: 7.7 million (1997)

Internet country code: .eg

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 50 (2000)

Internet users: 300,000 (2000)



Egypt    Transportation

Railways: total:  4,955 km

standard gauge:  4,955 km 1,435-m gauge (42 km electrified; 1,560 km
double track) (2000)

Highways: total:  64,000 km

paved:  50,000 km

unpaved:  14,000 km (1996)

Waterways: 3,500 km

note:  including the Nile, Lake Nasser, Alexandria-Cairo Waterway,
and numerous smaller canals in the delta; Suez Canal (193.5 km
including approaches), used by oceangoing vessels drawing up to 16.1
m of water

Pipelines: crude oil 1,171 km; petroleum products 596 km; natural
gas 460 km

Ports and harbors: Alexandria, Al Ghardaqah, Aswan, Asyut, Bur
Safajah, Damietta, Marsa Matruh, Port Said, Suez

Merchant marine: total:  181 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
1,336,678 GRT/1,982,220 DWT

ships by type:  bulk 23, cargo 61, container 2, liquefied gas 1,
passenger 61, petroleum tanker 15, roll on/roll off 15, short-sea
passenger 3 (2000 est.)

Airports: 90 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  69

over 3,047 m:  12

2,438 to 3,047 m:  35

1,524 to 2,437 m:  17

914 to 1,523 m:  2

under 914 m:  3 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  21

2,438 to 3,047 m:  2

1,524 to 2,437 m:  2

914 to 1,523 m:  7

under 914 m:  10 (2000 est.)

Heliports: 2 (2000 est.)



Egypt    Military

Military branches: Army, Navy, Air Force, Air Defense Command

Military manpower - military age: 20 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  18,562,994 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
12,020,059 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  712,983
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $4.04 billion (FY99/00)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 4.1% (FY99/00)



Egypt    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: Egypt asserts its claim to the "Hala'ib
Triangle," a barren area of 20,580 sq km under partial Sudanese
administration that is defined by an administrative boundary which
supersedes the treaty boundary of 1899

Illicit drugs: a transit point for Southwest Asian and Southeast
Asian heroin and opium moving to Europe, Africa, and the US; popular
transit stop for Nigerian couriers

======================================================================

@El Salvador




El Salvador    Introduction

Background: El Salvador achieved independence from Spain in 1821 and
from the Central American Federation in 1839. A 12-year civil war,
which cost the lives of some 75,000 people, was brought to a close
in 1992 when the government and leftist rebels signed a treaty that
provided for military and political reforms.



El Salvador    Geography

Location: Middle America, bordering the North Pacific Ocean, between
Guatemala and Honduras

Geographic coordinates: 13 50 N, 88 55 W

Map references: Central America and the Caribbean

Area: total:  21,040 sq km

land:  20,720 sq km

water:  320 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly smaller than Massachusetts

Land boundaries: total:  545 km

border countries:  Guatemala 203 km, Honduras 342 km

Coastline: 307 km

Maritime claims: territorial sea:  200 NM

Climate: tropical; rainy season (May to October); dry season
(November to April); tropical on coast; temperate in uplands

Terrain: mostly mountains with narrow coastal belt and central
plateau

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Pacific Ocean 0 m

highest point:  Cerro El Pital 2,730 m

Natural resources: hydropower, geothermal power, petroleum, arable
land

Land use: arable land:  27%

permanent crops:  8%

permanent pastures:  29%

forests and woodland:  5%

other:  31% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 1,200 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: known as the Land of Volcanoes; frequent and
sometimes very destructive earthquakes and volcanic activity

Environment - current issues: deforestation; soil erosion; water
pollution; contamination of soils from disposal of toxic wastes;
Hurricane Mitch damage

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification,
Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer
Protection, Wetlands

signed, but not ratified:  Law of the Sea

Geography - note: smallest Central American country and only one
without a coastline on Caribbean Sea



El Salvador    People

Population: 6,237,662 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  37.68% (male 1,198,623; female 1,151,584)

15-64 years:  57.27% (male 1,693,865; female 1,878,254)

65 years and over:  5.05% (male 142,345; female 172,991) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 1.85% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 28.67 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 6.18 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: -3.95 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  0.9 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.82 male(s)/female

total population:  0.95 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 28.4 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  70.03 years

male:  66.43 years

female:  73.81 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 3.34 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 0.6% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 20,000 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: 1,300 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Salvadoran(s)

adjective:  Salvadoran

Ethnic groups: mestizo 90%, Amerindian 1%, white 9%

Religions: Roman Catholic 86%

note:  there is extensive activity by Protestant groups throughout
the country; by the end of 1992, there were an estimated 1 million
Protestant evangelicals in El Salvador

Languages: Spanish, Nahua (among some Amerindians)

Literacy: definition:  age 10 and over can read and write

total population:  71.5%

male:  73.5%

female:  69.8% (1995 est.)



El Salvador    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Republic of El Salvador

conventional short form:  El Salvador

local long form:  Republica de El Salvador

local short form:  El Salvador

Government type: republic

Capital: San Salvador

Administrative divisions: 14 departments (departamentos, singular -
departamento); Ahuachapan, Cabanas, Chalatenango, Cuscatlan, La
Libertad, La Paz, La Union, Morazan, San Miguel, San Salvador, Santa
Ana, San Vicente, Sonsonate, Usulutan

Independence: 15 September 1821 (from Spain)

National holiday: Independence Day, 15 September (1821)

Constitution: 23 December 1983

Legal system: based on civil and Roman law, with traces of common
law; judicial review of legislative acts in the Supreme Court;
accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction, with reservations

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Francisco FLORES Perez
(since 1 June 1999); Vice President Carlos QUINTANILLA Schmidt
(since 1 June 1999); note - the president is both the chief of state
and head of government

head of government:  President Francisco FLORES Perez (since 1 June
1999); Vice President Carlos QUINTANILLA Schmidt (since 1 June
1999); note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
government

cabinet:  cabinet selected by the president

elections:  president and vice president elected on the same ticket
by popular vote for five-year terms; election last held 7 March 1999
(next to be held NA March 2004)

election results:  Francisco FLORES Perez elected president; percent
of vote - Francisco FLORES (ARENA) 52%, Facundo GUARDADO (FMLN) 29%,
Ruben ZAMORA (CDU) 7.5%, other (no individual above 3%) 11.5%

Legislative branch: unicameral Legislative Assembly or Asamblea
Legislativa (84 seats; members are elected by direct popular vote to
serve three-year terms)

elections:  last held 12 March 2000 (next to be held NA March 2003)

election results:  percent of vote by party - ARENA 36.1%, FMLN
35.14%, PCN 8.76%, PDC 7.08%, CD 5.32%, PAN 3.75%, USC 1.47%, PLD
1.29%; seats by party - ARENA 28, FMLN 31, PCN 14, PDC 5, CD 3, PAN
1, independent 2

Judicial branch: Supreme Court or Corte Suprema (judges are selected
by the Legislative Assembly)

Political parties and leaders: Christian Democratic Party or PDC
[Rene AGUILUZ]; Democratic Convergence or CD (includes PSD, MNR,
MPSC) [Ruben ZAMORA, secretary general]; Democratic Party or PD
[Jorge MELENDEZ]; Farabundo Marti National Liberation Front or FMLN
[Fabio CASTILLO]; Liberal Democratic Party or PLD [Kirio Waldo
SALGADO, president]; National Action Party or PAN [Gustavo Rogelio
SALINAS, secretary general]; National Conciliation Party or PCN
[Ciro CRUZ Zepeda, president]; National Republican Alliance or ARENA
[Walter ARAUJO]; Social Christian Union or USC (formed by the merger
of Christian Social Renewal Party or PRSC and Unity Movement or MU)
[Abraham RODRIGUEZ, president]

Political pressure groups and leaders: labor organizations -
Electrical Industry Union of El Salvador or SIES; Federation of the
Construction Industry, Similar Transport and other activities, or
FESINCONTRANS; National Confederation of Salvadoran Workers or CNTS;
National Union of Salvadoran Workers or UNTS; Port Industry Union of
El Salvador or SIPES; Salvadoran Union of Ex-Petrolleros and Peasant
Workers or USEPOC; Salvadoran Workers Central or CTS; Workers Union
of Electrical Corporation or STCEL; business organizations -
National Association of Small Enterprise or ANEP; Salvadoran
Assembly Industry Association or ASIC; Salvadoran Industrial
Association or ASI

International organization participation: BCIE, CACM, ECLAC, FAO,
G-77, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS,
ILO, IMF, IMO, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO (correspondent),
ITU, LAES, LAIA (observer), MINURSO, NAM (observer), OAS, OPANAL,
OPCW, PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WFTU, WHO, WIPO,
WMO, WToO, WTrO

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Rene Antonio LEON Rodriguez

chancery:  2308 California Street NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone:  [1] (202) 265-9671

consulate(s) general:  Chicago, Dallas, Houston, Los Angeles, Miami,
New Orleans, New York, and San Francisco

consulate(s):  Boston

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Rose M. LIKINS

embassy:  Boulevard Santa Elena Final, Antiguo Cuscatlan, La
Libertad, San Salvador

mailing address:  Unit 3116, APO AA 34023

telephone:  [503] 278-4444

FAX:  [503] 278-6011

Flag description: three equal horizontal bands of blue (top), white,
and blue with the national coat of arms centered in the white band;
the coat of arms features a round emblem encircled by the words
REPUBLICA DE EL SALVADOR EN LA AMERICA CENTRAL; similar to the flag
of Nicaragua, which has a different coat of arms centered in the
white band - it features a triangle encircled by the words REPUBLICA
DE NICARAGUA on top and AMERICA CENTRAL on the bottom; also similar
to the flag of Honduras, which has five blue stars arranged in an X
pattern centered in the white band



El Salvador    Economy

Economy - overview: El Salvador is a struggling Central American
economy which has been suffering from a weak tax collection system,
factory closings, the aftermaths of Hurricane Mitch of 1998 and the
devastating earthquakes of early 2001, and weak world coffee prices.
On the bright side, in recent years inflation has fallen to single
digit levels, and total exports have grown substantially. The trade
deficit has been offset by remittances (an estimated $1.6 billion in
2000) from Salvadorans living abroad and by external aid. As of 1
January 2001, the US dollar was made legal tender alongside the
colon.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $24 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 2.5% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $4,000 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  12%

industry:  28%

services:  60% (1999 est.)

Population below poverty line: 48% (1999 est.)

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:
1.2%

highest 10%:  38.3% (1995)

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 2.5% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 2.35 million (1999)

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture 30%, industry 15%, services
55% (1999 est.)

Unemployment rate: 10% (2000 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $1.8 billion

expenditures:  $2.2 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
(1999 est.)

Industries: food processing, beverages, petroleum, chemicals,
fertilizer, textiles, furniture, light metals

Industrial production growth rate: 5% (2000 est.)

Electricity - production: 3.641 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  45.65%

hydro:  41.01%

nuclear:  0%

other:  13.34% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 3.638 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 208 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 460 million kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: coffee, sugar, corn, rice, beans, oilseed,
cotton, sorghum; shrimp; beef, dairy products

Exports: $2.8 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Exports - commodities: offshore assembly exports, coffee, sugar,
shrimp, textiles, chemicals, electricity

Exports - partners: US 63%, Guatemala 11%, Honduras 7%, Costa Rica
4% (1999)

Imports: $4.6 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Imports - commodities: raw materials, consumer goods, capital goods,
fuels, foodstuffs, petroleum, electricity

Imports - partners: US 52%, Guatemala 9%, Mexico 6%, Costa Rica 3%
(1999)

Debt - external: $4.1 billion (2000 est.)

Economic aid - recipient: total $252 million; $57 million from US
(1999 est.)

Currency: Salvadoran colon (SVC); US dollar (USD)

Currency code: SVC; USD

Exchange rates: Salvadoran colones per US dollar - 8.755 (fixed rate
since 1993)

Fiscal year: calendar year



El Salvador    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 380,000 (1998)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 40,163 (1997)

Telephone system: general assessment:  NA

domestic:  nationwide microwave radio relay system

international:  satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (Atlantic
Ocean); connected to Central American Microwave System

Radio broadcast stations: AM 61 (plus 24 repeaters), FM 30,
shortwave 0 (1998)

Radios: 2.75 million (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 5 (1997)

Televisions: 600,000 (1990)

Internet country code: .sv

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 4 (2000)

Internet users: 40,000 (2000)



El Salvador    Transportation

Railways: total:  562 km

narrow gauge:  562 km 0.914-m gauge

note:  length of route which is operational is reduced to 283 km by
disuse and lack of maintainance (2001)

Highways: total:  10,029 km

paved:  1,986 km (including 327 km of expressways)

unpaved:  8,043 km (1997)

Waterways: Rio Lempa partially navigable

Ports and harbors: Acajutla, Puerto Cutuco, La Libertad, La Union,
Puerto El Triunfo

Merchant marine: none (2000 est.)

Airports: 83 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  4

over 3,047 m:  1

1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

914 to 1,523 m:  2 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  79

914 to 1,523 m:  17

under 914 m:  62 (2000 est.)

Heliports: 1 (2000 est.)



El Salvador    Military

Military branches: Army, Navy, Air Force

Military manpower - military age: 18 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  1,464,898 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
929,263 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  68,103
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $112 million (FY99)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 0.7% (FY99)



El Salvador    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: with respect to the maritime boundary in
the Golfo de Fonseca, the ICJ referred to the line determined by the
1900 Honduras-Nicaragua Mixed Boundary Commission and advised that
some tripartite resolution among El Salvador, Honduras and Nicaragua
likely would be required

Illicit drugs: transshipment point for cocaine; marijuana produced
for local consumption; domestic drug abuse on the rise

======================================================================

@Equatorial Guinea




Equatorial Guinea    Introduction

Background: Composed of a mainland portion and five inhabited
islands, Equatorial Guinea has been ruled by ruthless leaders who
have badly mismanaged the economy since independence from 190 years
of Spanish rule in 1968. Although nominally a constitutional
democracy since 1991, the 1996 presidential and 1999 legislative
elections were widely seen as being flawed.



Equatorial Guinea    Geography

Location: Western Africa, bordering the Bight of Biafra, between
Cameroon and Gabon

Geographic coordinates: 2 00 N, 10 00 E

Map references: Africa

Area: total:  28,051 sq km

land:  28,051 sq km

water:  0 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly smaller than Maryland

Land boundaries: total:  539 km

border countries:  Cameroon 189 km, Gabon 350 km

Coastline: 296 km

Maritime claims: exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: tropical; always hot, humid

Terrain: coastal plains rise to interior hills; islands are volcanic

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Atlantic Ocean 0 m

highest point:  Pico Basile 3,008 m

Natural resources: oil, petroleum, timber, small unexploited
deposits of gold, manganese, uranium

Land use: arable land:  5%

permanent crops:  4%

permanent pastures:  4%

forests and woodland:  46%

other:  41% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: NA sq km

Natural hazards: violent windstorms, flash floods

Environment - current issues: tap water is not potable;
desertification

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification,
Endangered Species, Law of the Sea, Ship Pollution

signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Geography - note: insular and continental regions rather widely
separated



Equatorial Guinea    People

Population: 486,060 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  42.56% (male 103,909; female 102,946)

15-64 years:  53.68% (male 124,808; female 136,088)

65 years and over:  3.76% (male 8,178; female 10,131) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 2.46% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 37.72 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 13.11 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: NEGL migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.03 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.01 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  0.92 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.81 male(s)/female

total population:  0.95 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 92.9 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  53.95 years

male:  51.89 years

female:  56.07 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 4.88 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 0.51% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 1,100 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: 120 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Equatorial Guinean(s) or Equatoguinean(s)

adjective:  Equatorial Guinean or Equatoguinean

Ethnic groups: Bioko (primarily Bubi, some Fernandinos), Rio Muni
(primarily Fang), Europeans less than 1,000, mostly Spanish

Religions: nominally Christian and predominantly Roman Catholic,
pagan practices

Languages: Spanish (official), French (official), pidgin English,
Fang, Bubi, Ibo

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  78.5%

male:  89.6%

female:  68.1% (1995 est.)



Equatorial Guinea    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Republic of Equatorial Guinea

conventional short form:  Equatorial Guinea

local long form:  Republica de Guinea Ecuatorial

local short form:  Guinea Ecuatorial

former:  Spanish Guinea

Government type: republic

Capital: Malabo

Administrative divisions: 7 provinces (provincias, singular -
provincia); Annobon, Bioko Norte, Bioko Sur, Centro Sur, Kie-Ntem,
Litoral, Wele-Nzas

Independence: 12 October 1968 (from Spain)

National holiday: Independence Day, 12 October (1968)

Constitution: approved by national referendum 17 November 1991;
amended January 1995

Legal system: partly based on Spanish civil law and tribal custom

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal adult

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Brig. Gen. (Ret.)
Teodoro OBIANG NGUEMA MBASOGO (since 3 August 1979 when he seized
power in a military coup)

head of government:  Prime Minister Candido Muatetema RIVAS (since
26 February 2001); First Deputy Prime Minister Miguel OYONO NDONG
(since NA January 1998); Deputy Prime Minister Demetrio Elo NDONG
NZE FUMU (since NA January 1998)

cabinet:  Council of Ministers appointed by the president

elections:  president elected by popular vote to a seven-year term;
election last held 25 February 1996 (next to be held NA February
2003); prime minister and vice prime ministers appointed by the
president

election results:  President Teodoro OBIANG NGUEMA MBASOGO reelected
with 98% of popular vote in elections marred by widespread fraud

Legislative branch: unicameral House of People's Representatives or
Camara de Representantes del Pueblo (80 seats; members directly
elected by popular vote to serve five-year terms)

elections:  last held 7 March 1999 (next to be held NA 2004)

election results:  percent of vote by party - PDGE 80%, UP 6%, CPDS
5%; seats by party - PDGE 75, UP 4 and CPDS 1

note:  opposition parties have refused to take up their seats in the
House to protest widespread irregularities in the 1999 legislative
elections

Judicial branch: Supreme Tribunal

Political parties and leaders: Convergence Party for Social
Democracy or CPDS [Placido Miko ABOGO]; Democratic Party for
Equatorial Guinea or PDGE (ruling party) [Teodoro OBIANG NGUEMA
MBASOGO]; Party for Progress of Equatorial Guinea or PPGE [Severo
MOTO]; Popular Action of Equatorial Guinea or APGE [Miguel Esono
EMAN]; Popular Union or UP [Andres Moises Bda ADA]; Progressive
Democratic Alliance or ADP [Victorino Bolekia BONAY, mayor of
Malabo]; Union of Independent Democrats of UDI [Daniel OYONO]

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: ACCT, ACP, AfDB, BDEAC,
CEEAC, CEMAC, ECA, FAO, FZ, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC,
IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, ITU, NAM, OAS
(observer), OAU, OPCW, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WHO, WIPO,
WToO, WTrO (applicant)

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Teodoro BIYOGO NSUEA

chancery:  2020 16th Street NW, Washington, DC 20009

telephone:  [1] (202) 518-5700

FAX:  [1] (202) 528-5252

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
John M. YATES; note - the US does not have an embassy in Equatorial
Guinea (embassy closed September 1995); US relations with Equatorial
Guinea are handled through the US Embassy in Yaounde, Cameroon; the
US State Department is considering opening a Consulate Agency in
Malabo

Flag description: three equal horizontal bands of green (top),
white, and red with a blue isosceles triangle based on the hoist
side and the coat of arms centered in the white band; the coat of
arms has six yellow six-pointed stars (representing the mainland and
five offshore islands) above a gray shield bearing a silk-cotton
tree and below which is a scroll with the motto UNIDAD, PAZ,
JUSTICIA (Unity, Peace, Justice)



Equatorial Guinea    Economy

Economy - overview: The discovery and exploitation of large oil
reserves have contributed to dramatic economic growth in recent
years. Forestry, farming, and fishing are also major components of
GDP. Subsistence farming predominates. Although pre-independence
Equatorial Guinea counted on cocoa production for hard currency
earnings, the deterioration of the rural economy under successive
brutal regimes has diminished potential for agriculture-led growth.
A number of aid programs sponsored by the World Bank and the IMF
have been cut off since 1993 because of the government's gross
corruption and mismanagement. Businesses, for the most part, are
owned by government officials and their family members. Undeveloped
natural resources include titanium, iron ore, manganese, uranium,
and alluvial gold. The country responded favorably to the
devaluation of the CFA franc in January 1994. Boosts in production
and high world oil prices stimulated growth in 2000, with oil
accounting for 90% of greatly increased exports.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $960 million (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 12% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $2,000 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  20%

industry:  60%

services:  20% (1999 est.)

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 6% (1999 est.)

Labor force: NA

Unemployment rate: 30% (1998 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $47 million

expenditures:  $43 million, including capital expenditures of $7
million (1996 est.)

Industries: petroleum, fishing, sawmilling, natural gas

Industrial production growth rate: 7.4% (1994 est.)

Electricity - production: 21 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  85.71%

hydro:  14.29%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 19.5 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: coffee, cocoa, rice, yams, cassava
(tapioca), bananas, palm oil nuts; livestock; timber

Exports: $860 million (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Exports - commodities: petroleum, timber, cocoa

Exports - partners: US 62%, Spain 17%, China 9%, France 3%, Japan
3%, (1997)

Imports: $300 million (f.o.b., 1999)

Imports - commodities: manufactured goods and equipment

Imports - partners: US 35%, France 15%, Spain 10%, Cameroon 10%, UK
6% (1997)

Debt - external: $290 million (1999 est.)

Economic aid - recipient: $33.8 million (1995)

Currency: Communaute Financiere Africaine franc (XAF); note -
responsible authority is the Bank of the Central African States

Currency code: XAF

Exchange rates: Communaute Financiere Africaine francs (XAF) per US
dollar - 699.21 (January 2001), 711.98 (2000), 615.70 (1999), 589.95
(1998), 583.67 (1997), 511.55 (1996); note - from 1 January 1999,
the XAF is pegged to the euro at a rate of 655.957 XAF per euro

Fiscal year: 1 April - 31 March



Equatorial Guinea    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 4,000 (1996)

Telephones - mobile cellular: NA

Telephone system: general assessment:  poor system with adequate
government services

domestic:  NA

international:  international communications from Bata and Malabo to
African and European countries; satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat
(Indian Ocean)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 0, FM 2, shortwave 4 (1998)

Radios: 180,000 (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 1 (1997)

Televisions: 4,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .gq

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 1 (2000)

Internet users: 500 (2000)



Equatorial Guinea    Transportation

Railways: total:  0 km

Highways: total:  2,880 km

paved:  0 km

unpaved:  2,880 km (1996)

Waterways: none

Ports and harbors: Bata, Luba, Malabo

Merchant marine: total:  12 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
26,035 GRT/27,927 DWT

ships by type:  bulk 1, cargo 7, combination bulk 1, passenger 2,
passenger/cargo 1 (2000 est.)

Airports: 3 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  2

2,438 to 3,047 m:  1

1,524 to 2,437 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  1

under 914 m:  1 (2000 est.)



Equatorial Guinea    Military

Military branches: Army, Navy, Air Force, Rapid Intervention Force,
National Police

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  108,973 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
55,347 (2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $3 million (FY97/98)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 0.6% (FY97/98)



Equatorial Guinea    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: tripartite maritime boundary and economic
zone dispute with Cameroon and Nigeria is currently before the ICJ;
maritime boundary dispute with Gabon because of disputed sovereignty
over islands in Corisco Bay

======================================================================

@Eritrea




Eritrea    Introduction

Background: Eritrea was awarded to Ethiopia in 1952 as part of a
federation. Ethiopia's annexation of Eritrea as a province 10 years
later sparked a 30-year struggle for independence that ended in 1991
with Eritrean rebels defeating governmental forces; independence was
overwhelmingly approved in a 1993 referendum. A two and a half year
border war with Ethiopia that erupted in 1998 ended under UN
auspices on 12 December 2000.



Eritrea    Geography

Location: Eastern Africa, bordering the Red Sea, between Djibouti
and Sudan

Geographic coordinates: 15 00 N, 39 00 E

Map references: Africa

Area: total:  121,320 sq km

land:  121,320 sq km

water:  0 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly larger than Pennsylvania

Land boundaries: total:  1,630 km

border countries:  Djibouti 113 km, Ethiopia 912 km, Sudan 605 km

Coastline: 2,234 km total; mainland on Red Sea 1,151 km, islands in
Red Sea 1,083 km

Maritime claims: territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: hot, dry desert strip along Red Sea coast; cooler and
wetter in the central highlands (up to 61 cm of rainfall annually);
semiarid in western hills and lowlands; rainfall heaviest during
June-September except in coastal desert

Terrain: dominated by extension of Ethiopian north-south trending
highlands, descending on the east to a coastal desert plain, on the
northwest to hilly terrain and on the southwest to flat-to-rolling
plains

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  near Kulul within the Denakil
depression -75 m

highest point:  Soira 3,018 m

Natural resources: gold, potash, zinc, copper, salt, possibly oil
and natural gas, fish

Land use: arable land:  12%

permanent crops:  1%

permanent pastures:  49%

forests and woodland:  6%

other:  32% (1998 est.)

Irrigated land: 280 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: frequent droughts; locust swarms

Environment - current issues: deforestation; desertification; soil
erosion; overgrazing; loss of infrastructure from civil warfare

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species

signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Geography - note: strategic geopolitical position along world's
busiest shipping lanes; Eritrea retained the entire coastline of
Ethiopia along the Red Sea upon de jure independence from Ethiopia
on 24 May 1993



Eritrea    People

Population: 4,298,269 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  42.85% (male 922,691; female 918,916)

15-64 years:  53.87% (male 1,147,927; female 1,167,705)

65 years and over:  3.28% (male 71,232; female 69,798) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 3.84% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 42.52 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 12.07 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 7.91 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

note:  according to the UNHCR, about 150,000 Eritrean refugees in
Sudan have registered for voluntary repatriation, following the
restoration of diplomatic relations between Eritrea and Sudan in
January 2000

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.03 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  0.98 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  1.02 male(s)/female

total population:  0.99 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 75.14 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  56.18 years

male:  53.73 years

female:  58.71 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 5.87 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 2.87% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: NA

HIV/AIDS - deaths: NA

Nationality: noun:  Eritrean(s)

adjective:  Eritrean

Ethnic groups: ethnic Tigrinya 50%, Tigre and Kunama 40%, Afar 4%,
Saho (Red Sea coast dwellers) 3%

Religions: Muslim, Coptic Christian, Roman Catholic, Protestant

Languages: Afar, Amharic, Arabic, Tigre and Kunama, Tigrinya, other
Cushitic languages

Literacy: definition:  NA

total population:  25%

male:  NA%

female:  NA%



Eritrea    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  State of Eritrea

conventional short form:  Eritrea

local long form:  Hagere Ertra

local short form:  Ertra

former:  Eritrea Autonomous Region in Ethiopia

Government type: transitional government

note:  following a successful referendum on independence for the
Autonomous Region of Eritrea on 23-25 April 1993, a National
Assembly, composed entirely of the People's Front for Democracy and
Justice or PFDJ, was established as a transitional legislature; a
Constitutional Commission was also established to draft a
constitution; ISAIAS Afworki was elected president by the
transitional legislature; the constitution, ratified in May 1997,
did not enter into effect, pending parliamentary and presidential
elections; parliamentary elections have now been scheduled to take
place in December 2001

Capital: Asmara (formerly Asmera)

Administrative divisions: 8 provinces (singular - awraja); Akale
Guzay, Barka, Denkel, Hamasen, Sahil, Semhar, Senhit, Seraye

note:  in May 1995 the National Assembly adopted a resolution
stating that the administrative structure of Eritrea, which had been
established by former colonial powers, would consist of only six
provinces when the new constitution, then being drafted, became
effective in 1997; the new provinces, the names of which had not
been recommended by the US Board on Geographic Names for recognition
by the US Government, pending acceptable definition of the
boundaries, were: Anseba, Debub, Debubawi Keyih Bahri, Gash-Barka,
Maakel, and Semanawi Keyih Bahri; more recently, it has been
reported that these provinces have been redesignated regions and
renamed Southern Red Sea, Northern Red Sea, Anseba, Gash-Barka,
Southern, and Central

Independence: 24 May 1993 (from Ethiopia)

National holiday: Independence Day, 24 May (1993)

Constitution: the transitional constitution, decreed on 19 May 1993,
was replaced by a new constitution adopted on 23 May 1997, but not
yet implemented

Legal system: operates on the basis of transitional laws that
incorporate pre-independence statutes of the Eritrean People's
Liberation Front, revised Ethiopian laws, customary laws, and post
independence enacted laws

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  President ISAIAS Afworki (since 8
June 1993); note - the president is both the chief of state and head
of government and is head of the State Council and National Assembly

head of government:  President ISAIAS Afworki (since 8 June 1993);
note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
government and is head of the State Council and National Assembly

cabinet:  State Council is the collective executive authority

elections:  president elected by the National Assembly; election
last held 8 June 1993 (next tentatively scheduled for December 2001)

election results:  ISAIAS Afworki elected president; percent of
National Assembly vote - ISAIAS Afworki 95%

Legislative branch: unicameral National Assembly (150 seats; term
limits not established)

elections:  in May 1997, following the adoption of the new
constitution, 75 members of the PFDJ Central Committee (the old
Central Committee of the EPLF), 60 members of the 527-member
Constituent Assembly which had been established in 1997 to discuss
and ratify the new constitution, and 15 representatives of Eritreans
living abroad were formed into a Transitional National Assembly to
serve as the country's legislative body until country-wide elections
to a National Assembly are held; only 75 members will be elected to
the National Assembly - the other 75 will be members of the Central
Committee of the PFDJ; parliamentary elections are now scheduled for
NA December 2001

Judicial branch: Supreme Court; 10 provincial courts; 29 district
courts

Political parties and leaders: People's Front for Democracy and
Justice or PFDJ, the only party recognized by the government [ISAIAS
Afworki, PETROS Solomon]; note - the National Assembly has appointed
a committee to draft a law on political parties

Political pressure groups and leaders: Eritrean Islamic Jihad or
EIJ; Eritrean Liberation Front or ELF [ABDULLAH Muhammed]; Eritrean
Liberation Front-Revolutionary Council or ELF-RC [Ahmed NASSER];
Eritrean Liberation Front-United Organization or ELF-UO [Mohammed
Said NAWD]

International organization participation: ACP, AfDB, CCC, ECA, FAO,
IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IGAD, ILO, IMF, IMO, Intelsat
(nonsignatory user), Interpol, IOC, ITU, NAM, OAU, OPCW, UN, UNCTAD,
UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
GIRMA Asmerom

chancery:  1708 New Hampshire Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20009

telephone:  [1] (202) 319-1991

FAX:  [1] (202) 319-1304

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
William D. CLARKE

embassy:  Franklin D. Roosevelt Street, Asmara

mailing address:  P. O. Box 211, Asmara

telephone:  [291] (1) 120004

FAX:  [291] (1) 127584

Flag description: red isosceles triangle (based on the hoist side)
dividing the flag into two right triangles; the upper triangle is
green, the lower one is blue; a gold wreath encircling a gold olive
branch is centered on the hoist side of the red triangle



Eritrea    Economy

Economy - overview: With independence from Ethiopia on 24 May 1993,
Eritrea faced the economic problems of a small, desperately poor
country. The economy is largely based on subsistence agriculture,
with 80% of the population involved in farming and herding. The
small industrial sector consists mainly of light industries with
outmoded technologies. Domestic output (GDP) is substantially
augmented by worker remittances from abroad. Government revenues
come from custom duties and taxes on income and sales. Road
construction is a top domestic priority. In the long term, Eritrea
may benefit from the development of offshore oil, offshore fishing,
and tourism. Eritrea's economic future depends on its ability to
master fundamental social and economic problems, e.g., by reducing
illiteracy, promoting job creation, expanding technical training,
attracting foreign investment, and streamlining the bureaucracy.
Eritrea's agriculture over the last two years was severely weakened
by war and drought, and many farmlands must wait to be demined.
Another major difficulty is the ports, which prior to the war were
Ethiopia's preferred outlets but since have seen trade dry up.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $2.9 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: -1% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $710 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  16%

industry:  27%

services:  57% (2000 est.)

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 14% (2000 est.)

Labor force: NA

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture 80%, industry and services
20%

Unemployment rate: NA%

Budget: revenues:  $283.9 million

expenditures:  $351.6 million, including capital expenditures of $NA
(1997 est.)

Industries: food processing, beverages, clothing and textiles

Industrial production growth rate: NA%

Electricity - production: 165 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  100%

hydro:  0%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 153.5 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh NA kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh NA kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: sorghum, lentils, vegetables, corn, cotton,
tobacco, coffee, sisal; livestock, goats; fish

Exports: $26 million (f.o.b., 1999)

Exports - commodities: livestock, sorghum, textiles, food, small
manufactures

Exports - partners: Sudan 27.2%, Ethiopia 26.5%, Japan 13.2%, UAE
7.3%, Italy 5.3% (1998)

Imports: $560 million (c.i.f., 1999)

Imports - commodities: machinery, petroleum products, food,
manufactured goods

Imports - partners: Italy 17.4%, UAE 16.2%, Germany 5.7%, UK 4.5%,
Korea 4.4% (1998)

Debt - external: $281 million (2000 est.)

Economic aid - recipient: $77 million (1999)

Currency: nakfa (ERN)

Currency code: ERN

Exchange rates: nakfa per US dollar = 9.5 (January 2000), 7.6
(January 1999), 7.2 (March 1998 est.)

Fiscal year: calendar year



Eritrea    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 23,578 (2000)

Telephones - mobile cellular: NA

Telephone system: general assessment:  NA

domestic:  very inadequate; most telephones are in Asmara;
government is seeking international tenders to improve the system

international:  NA

Radio broadcast stations: AM 2, FM 1, shortwave 2 (2000)

Radios: 345,000 (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 1 (2000)

Televisions: 1,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .er

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 4 (2000)

Internet users: 500 (2000)



Eritrea    Transportation

Railways: total:  317 km

narrow gauge:  317 km 0.950-m gauge (1999)

note:  links Ak'ordat and Asmara with the port of Massawa;
nonoperational since 1978 except for about a 5 km stretch that was
reopened in Massawa in 1994; rehabilitation of the remainder and of
the rolling stock is under way

Highways: total:  3,850 km

paved:  810 km

unpaved:  3,040 km (2000)

Waterways: none

Ports and harbors: Assab (Aseb), Massawa (Mits'iwa)

Merchant marine: total:  5 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 16,069
GRT/19,549 DWT

ships by type:  bulk 1, cargo 1, liquefied gas 1, petroleum tanker
1, roll on/roll off 1 (2000 est.)

Airports: 20 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  2

over 3,047 m:  1

2,438 to 3,047 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  18

over 3,047 m:  2

2,438 to 3,047 m:  2

1,524 to 2,437 m:  5

914 to 1,523 m:  7

under 914 m:  2 (2000 est.)



Eritrea    Military

Military branches: Army, Navy, Air Force

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $160 million (2000 est.)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 29.4% (2000 est.)



Eritrea    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: as a result of the 12 December 2000 peace
agreement ending a two-year war with Ethiopia, the UN will
administer a 25-km wide temporary security zone within Eritrea until
a joint boundary commission delimits and demarcates a final boundary

======================================================================

@Estonia




Estonia    Introduction

Background: After centuries of Swedish and Russian rule, Estonia
attained independence in 1918. Forcibly incorporated into the USSR
in 1940, it regained its freedom in 1991 with the collapse of the
Soviet Union. Since the last Russian troops left in 1994, Estonia
has been free to promote economic and political ties with Western
Europe.



Estonia    Geography

Location: Eastern Europe, bordering the Baltic Sea and Gulf of
Finland, between Latvia and Russia

Geographic coordinates: 59 00 N, 26 00 E

Map references: Europe

Area: total:  45,226 sq km

land:  43,211 sq km

water:  2,015 sq km

note:  includes 1,520 islands in the Baltic Sea

Area - comparative: slightly smaller than New Hampshire and Vermont
combined

Land boundaries: total:  633 km

border countries:  Latvia 339 km, Russia 294 km

Coastline: 3,794 km

Maritime claims: exclusive economic zone:  limits fixed in
coordination with neighboring states

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: maritime, wet, moderate winters, cool summers

Terrain: marshy, lowlands

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Baltic Sea 0 m

highest point:  Suur Munamagi 318 m

Natural resources: shale oil (kukersite), peat, phosphorite, amber,
cambrian blue clay, limestone, dolomite, arable land

Land use: arable land:  25%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  11%

forests and woodland:  44%

other:  20% (1996 est.)

Irrigated land: 110 sq km (1996 est.)

Natural hazards: flooding occurs frequently in the spring

Environment - current issues: air heavily polluted with sulfur
dioxide from oil-shale burning power plants in northeast;
contamination of soil and groundwater with petroleum products,
chemicals at former Soviet military bases; Estonia has more than
1,400 natural and manmade lakes, the smaller of which in
agricultural areas are heavily affected by organic waste; coastal
sea water is polluted in many locations

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Air Pollution,
Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air Pollution-Sulphur 85, Air
Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds, Biodiversity, Climate Change,
Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Ship Pollution, Ozone Layer
Protection, Wetlands

signed, but not ratified:  Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol



Estonia    People

Population: 1,423,316 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  17.08% (male 123,997; female 119,166)

15-64 years:  68.14% (male 466,823; female 503,032)

65 years and over:  14.78% (male 68,802; female 141,496) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: -0.55% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 8.7 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 13.48 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: -0.76 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  0.93 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.49 male(s)/female

total population:  0.86 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 12.62 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  69.73 years

male:  63.72 years

female:  76.05 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 1.21 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 0.04% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: less than 500 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: less than 100 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Estonian(s)

adjective:  Estonian

Ethnic groups: Estonian 65.1%, Russian 28.1%, Ukrainian 2.5%,
Byelorussian 1.5%, Finn 1%, other 1.8% (1998)

Religions: Evangelical Lutheran, Russian Orthodox, Estonian
Orthodox, Baptist, Methodist, Seventh-Day Adventist, Roman Catholic,
Pentecostal, Word of Life, Jewish

Languages: Estonian (official), Russian, Ukrainian, English,
Finnish, other

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  100%

male:  100%

female:  100% (1998 est.)



Estonia    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Republic of Estonia

conventional short form:  Estonia

local long form:  Eesti Vabariik

local short form:  Eesti

former:  Estonian Soviet Socialist Republic

Government type: parliamentary democracy

Capital: Tallinn

Administrative divisions: 15 counties (maakonnad, singular -
maakond): Harjumaa (Tallinn), Hiiumaa (Kardla), Ida-Virumaa (Johvi),
Jarvamaa (Paide), Jogevamaa (Jogeva), Laanemaa (Haapsalu),
Laane-Virumaa (Rakvere), Parnumaa (Parnu), Polvamaa (Polva),
Raplamaa (Rapla), Saaremaa (Kuessaare), Tartumaa (Tartu), Valgamaa
(Valga), Viljandimaa (Viljandi), Vorumaa (Voru)

note:  counties have the administrative center name following in
parentheses

Independence: 6 September 1991 (from Soviet Union)

National holiday: Independence Day, 24 February (1918); note - 24
February 1918 was the date of independence from Soviet Russia, 6
September 1991 was the date of independence from the Soviet Union

Constitution: adopted 28 June 1992

Legal system: based on civil law system; no judicial review of
legislative acts

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal for all Estonian citizens

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Lennart MERI (since 5
October 1992)

head of government:  Prime Minister Mart LAAR (since 29 March 1999)

cabinet:  Council of Ministers appointed by the prime minister,
approved by Parliament

elections:  president elected by Parliament for a five-year term; if
he or she does not secure two-thirds of the votes after three rounds
of balloting, then an electoral assembly (made up of Parliament plus
members of local governments) elects the president, choosing between
the two candidates with the largest percentage of votes; election
last held August-September 1996 (next to be held in the fall of
2001); prime minister nominated by the president and approved by
Parliament

election results:  Lennart MERI reelected president by an electoral
assembly after Parliament was unable to break a deadlock between
MERI and RUUTEL; percent of electoral assembly vote - Lennart MERI
61%, Arnold RUUTEL 39%

Legislative branch: unicameral Parliament or Riigikogu (101 seats;
members are elected by popular vote to serve four-year terms)

elections:  last held 7 March 1999 (next to be held NA March 2003)

election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
Center Party 28, Union of Pro Patria (Fatherland League) 18, Reform
Party 18, Moderates 17, Country People's Party (Agrarians) 7,
Coalition Party 7, UPPE 6

Judicial branch: National Court (chairman appointed by Parliament
for life)

Political parties and leaders: Center Party or K [Edgar SAVISAAR,
chairman]; Christian People's Party [Aldo VINKEL]; Coalition Party
and Rural Union or KMU [Andrus OOBEL, chairman]; Estonian Democratic
Party (formerly Estonian Blue Party) [Jaan LAAS]; Estonian
Independence Party [leader NA]; Estonian National Democratic Party
or ENDP [leader NA]; Estonian Pensioners and Families Party [Mai
TREIAL]; Estonian Progressive Party [Andra VEIDEMANN]; Estonian
Republican Party [leader NA]; Estonian Social-Democratic Labor Party
[Tiit TOOMSALU]; Estonian Rural People's Union (1999 merger of
Estonian Country People's Party and the Estonian Rural Union) [Arvo
SIRENDI]; Party of Consolidation Today [leader NA]; People's Party
Moderates (1999 merger of People's Party and Moderates) [Andres
TARAND]; Reform Party or RE [Siim KALLAS, chairman]; Russian Party
in Estonia [Nikolai MASPANOV]; Russian Unity Party [Igor SEDASHEV];
Union of Pro Patria or Fatherland League (Isamaaliit) [Mart LAAR,
chairman]; United People's Party or UPPE [Viktor ANDREJEV, chairman]

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: BIS, CBSS, CCC, CE, EAPC,
EBRD, ECE, EU (applicant), FAO, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, ICRM, IFC,
IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol, IOC, IOM (observer), ISO
(correspondent), ITU, OPCW, OSCE, PFP, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNMIBH,
UNMIK, UNTSO, UPU, WEU (associate partner), WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTrO

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Sven JURGENSON

chancery:  2131 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone:  [1] (202) 588-0101

FAX:  [1] (202) 588-0108

consulate(s) general:  New York

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Melissa WELLS

embassy:  Kentmanni 20, 15099 Tallinn

mailing address:  use embassy street address

telephone:  [372] 668-8100

FAX:  [372] 668-8134

Flag description: pre-1940 flag restored by Supreme Soviet in May
1990 - three equal horizontal bands of blue (top), black, and white



Estonia    Economy

Economy - overview: In 2000, Estonia rebounded from the Russian
financial crisis by scaling back its budget and reorienting trade
away from Russian markets into EU member states. After GDP shrank
1.1% in 1999, the economy made a strong recovery in 2000, with
growth estimated at 6.4% - the highest in Central and Eastern
Europe. Estonia joined the World Trade Organization in November 1999
- the second Baltic state to join - and continues its EU accession
talks. For 2001, Estonians predict GDP to grow around 6%, inflation
of between 4.2%-5.3%, and a balanced budget. Substantial gains were
made in completing privatization of Estonia's few remaining large,
state-owned companies in 2000, and this momentum is expected to
continue in 2001. Estonia hopes to join the EU during the next round
of enlargement tentatively set for 2004.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $14.7 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 6.4% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $10,000 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  3.6%

industry:  30.7%

services:  65.7% (1999)

Population below poverty line: 8.9% (1995 est.)

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:
3.2%

highest 10%:  28.5% (1996)

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 4.1% (1999 est.)

Labor force: 785,500 (1999 est.)

Labor force - by occupation: industry 20%, agriculture 11%, services
69% (1999 est.)

Unemployment rate: 11.7% (1999 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $1.37 billion

expenditures:  $1.37 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
(1997 est.)

Industries: oil shale, shipbuilding, phosphates, electric motors,
excavators, cement, furniture, clothing, textiles, paper, shoes,
apparel

Industrial production growth rate: 5% (2000 est.)

Electricity - production: 7.782 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  99.72%

hydro:  0.09%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0.19% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 6.807 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 530 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 100 million kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: potatoes, fruits, vegetables; livestock and
dairy products; fish

Exports: $3.1 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Exports - commodities: machinery and equipment 24%, wood products
20%, textiles 17%, food products 9%, metals, chemical products (1999)

Exports - partners: Finland 19.4%, Sweden 18.8%, Russia 9.2%, Latvia
8.7%, Germany 7.5%, US 2.5% (1999)

Imports: $4 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Imports - commodities: machinery and equipment 31%, chemical
products 13%, foodstuffs 11%, metal products 8%, textiles 8% (1999)

Imports - partners: Finland 22.8%, Russia 13.5%, Sweden 9.3%,
Germany 9.3%, Japan 4.7% (1999)

Debt - external: $1.6 billion (2000 est.)

Economic aid - recipient: $137.3 million (1995)

Currency: Estonian kroon (EEK)

Currency code: EEK

Exchange rates: krooni per US dollar - 16.663 (January 2001), 16.969
(2000), 14.678 (1999), 14.075 (1998), 13.882 (1997), 12.034 (1996);
note - krooni are tied to the German deutsche mark at a fixed rate
of 8 to 1

Fiscal year: calendar year



Estonia    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 476,078 (yearend 1998)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 475,000 (yearend 2000)

Telephone system: general assessment:  foreign investment in the
form of joint business ventures greatly improved telephone service;
Internet services available throughout most of the country; about
150,000 unfilled subscriber requests

domestic:  local - the Ministry of Transport and Communications is
expanding cellular telephone services to form rural networks;
intercity - highly developed fiber-optic backbone (double loop)
system presently serving at least 16 major cities (1998)

international:  fiber-optic cables to Finland, Sweden, Latvia, and
Russia provide worldwide packet-switched service; two international
switches are located in Tallinn

Radio broadcast stations: AM 3 (all AM stations inactive since July
1998), FM 82, shortwave 1 (1998)

Radios: 1.01 million (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 31 (plus five repeaters) (September
1995)

Televisions: 605,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .ee

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 28 (2000)

Internet users: 309,000 (2000)



Estonia    Transportation

Railways: total:  1,018 km common carrier lines only; does not
include dedicated industrial lines

broad gauge:  1,018 km 1.520-m gauge (132 km electrified) (1995)

Highways: total:  30,300 km

paved:  29,200 km (including 75 km of expressways); note - these
roads are said to be hard-surfaced, and include, in addition to
conventionally paved roads, some that are surfaced with gravel or
other coarse aggregate, making them trafficable in all weather

unpaved:  1,100 km (2000)

Waterways: 320 km (perennially navigable)

Pipelines: natural gas 420 km (1992)

Ports and harbors: Haapsalu, Kunda, Muuga, Paldiski, Parnu, Tallinn

Merchant marine: total:  44 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
253,460 GRT/219,727 DWT

ships by type:  bulk 2, cargo 19, combination bulk 1, container 5,
petroleum tanker 1, roll on/roll off 10, short-sea passenger 6 (2000
est.)

Airports: 32 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  8

2,438 to 3,047 m:  7

under 914 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  24

over 3,047 m:  1

2,438 to 3,047 m:  5

1,524 to 2,437 m:  7

914 to 1,523 m:  5

under 914 m:  6 (2000 est.)



Estonia    Military

Military branches: Ground Forces, Navy/Coast Guard, Air and Air
Defense Force (not officially sanctioned), Maritime Border Guard,
Volunteer Defense League (Kaitseliit), Security Forces (internal and
border troops)

Military manpower - military age: 18 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  359,677 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
282,418 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  11,164
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $70 million (FY99)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 1.2% (FY99)



Estonia    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: Estonian and Russian negotiators reached a
technical border agreement in December 1996 which has not been
signed nor ratified by Russia as of February 2001

Illicit drugs: transshipment point for opiates and cannabis from
Southwest Asia and the Caucasus via Russia, cocaine from Latin
America to Western Europe and Scandinavia, and synthetic drugs from
Western Europe to Scandinavia; possible precursor manufacturing
and/or trafficking; synthetic drug production growing, trafficked to
Russia, Baltics, Finland

======================================================================

@Ethiopia




Ethiopia    Introduction

Background: Unique among African countries, the ancient Ethiopian
monarchy maintained its freedom from colonial rule, one exception
being the Italian occupation of 1936-41. In 1974 a military junta,
the Derg, deposed Emperor Haile SELASSIE (who had ruled since 1930)
and established a socialist state. Torn by bloody coups, uprisings,
wide-scale drought, and massive refugee problems, the regime was
finally toppled by a coalition of rebel forces, the Ethiopian
People's Revolutionary Democratic Front (EPRDF), in 1991. A
constitution was adopted in 1994 and Ethiopia's first multiparty
elections were held in 1995. A two and a half year border war with
Eritrea that ended with a peace treaty on 12 December 2000 has
strengthened the ruling coalition, but has hurt the nation's economy.



Ethiopia    Geography

Location: Eastern Africa, west of Somalia

Geographic coordinates: 8 00 N, 38 00 E

Map references: Africa

Area: total:  1,127,127 sq km

land:  1,119,683 sq km

water:  7,444 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly less than twice the size of Texas

Land boundaries: total:  5,311 km

border countries:  Djibouti 337 km, Eritrea 912 km, Kenya 830 km,
Somalia 1,626 km, Sudan 1,606 km

Coastline: 0 km (landlocked)

Maritime claims: none (landlocked)

Climate: tropical monsoon with wide topographic-induced variation

Terrain: high plateau with central mountain range divided by Great
Rift Valley

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Denakil Depression -125 m

highest point:  Ras Dejen 4,620 m

Natural resources: small reserves of gold, platinum, copper, potash,
natural gas, hydropower

Land use: arable land:  12%

permanent crops:  1%

permanent pastures:  40%

forests and woodland:  25%

other:  22% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 1,900 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: geologically active Great Rift Valley susceptible
to earthquakes, volcanic eruptions; frequent droughts

Environment - current issues: deforestation; overgrazing; soil
erosion; desertification

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous
Wastes, Ozone Layer Protection

signed, but not ratified:  Environmental Modification, Law of the
Sea, Nuclear Test Ban

Geography - note: landlocked - entire coastline along the Red Sea
was lost with the de jure independence of Eritrea on 24 May 1993



Ethiopia    People

Population: 65,891,874

note:  estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
life expectancy, higher infant mortality and death rates, lower
population and growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  47.18% (male 15,647,675; female
15,442,348)

15-64 years:  50.03% (male 16,584,765; female 16,378,060)

65 years and over:  2.79% (male 834,825; female 1,004,201) (2001
est.)

Population growth rate: 2.7% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 44.68 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 17.84 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 0.13 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

note:  repatriation of Ethiopians who fled to Sudan for refuge from
war and famine in earlier years is expected to continue for several
years; small numbers of Sudanese and Somali refugees, who fled to
Ethiopia from the fighting or famine in their own countries,
continue to return to their homes

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.03 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.01 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1.01 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.83 male(s)/female

total population:  1.01 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 99.96 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  44.68 years

male:  43.88 years

female:  45.51 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 7 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 10.63% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 3 million (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: 280,000 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Ethiopian(s)

adjective:  Ethiopian

Ethnic groups: Oromo 40%, Amhara and Tigre 32%, Sidamo 9%, Shankella
6%, Somali 6%, Afar 4%, Gurage 2%, other 1%

Religions: Muslim 45%-50%, Ethiopian Orthodox 35%-40%, animist 12%,
other 3%-8%

Languages: Amharic, Tigrinya, Oromigna, Guaragigna, Somali, Arabic,
other local languages, English (major foreign language taught in
schools)

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  35.5%

male:  45.5%

female:  25.3% (1995 est.)



Ethiopia    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Federal Democratic Republic
of Ethiopia

conventional short form:  Ethiopia

local long form:  Ityop'iya Federalawi Demokrasiyawi Ripeblik

local short form:  Ityop'iya

former:  Abyssinia, Italian East Africa

abbreviation:  FDRE

Government type: federal republic

Capital: Addis Ababa

Administrative divisions: 9 ethnically-based states (kililoch,
singular - kilil) and 2 self-governing administrations*
(astedaderoch, singular - astedader): Adis Abeba* (Addis Ababa);
Afar; Amara, Binshangul Gumuz; Dire Dawa*; Gambela Hizboch; Hareri
Hizb; Oromiya; Sumale; Tigray; YeDebub Biheroch Bihereseboch na
Hizboch (Southern Nations, Nationalities, and Peoples Region)

Independence: oldest independent country in Africa and one of the
oldest in the world - at least 2,000 years

National holiday: National Day (defeat of MENGISTU regime), 28 May
(1991)

Constitution: ratified December 1994; effective 22 August 1995

Legal system: currently transitional mix of national and regional
courts

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  President NEGASSO Gidada (since
22 August 1995)

head of government:  Prime Minister MELES Zenawi (since NA August
1995)

cabinet:  Council of Ministers as provided for in the December 1994
constitution; ministers are selected by the prime minister and
approved by the House of People's Representatives

elections:  president elected by the House of People's
Representatives for a six-year term; election last held NA June 1995
(next to be held NA May 2001); prime minister designated by the
party in power following legislative elections

election results:  NEGASSO Gidada elected president; percent of vote
by the House of People's Representatives - NA%

Legislative branch: bicameral Parliament consists of the House of
Federation or upper chamber (108 seats; members are chosen by state
assemblies to serve five-year terms) and the House of People's
Representatives or lower chamber (548 seats; members are directly
elected by popular vote from single-member districts to serve
five-year terms)

elections:  last held 14 May 2000 (next to be held NA May 2005)

election results:  percent of vote - NA%; seats - OPDO 177, ANDM
134, TPLF 38, WGGPDO 27, EPRDF 19, SPDO 18, GNDM 15, KSPDO 10, ANDP
8, GPRDF 7, SOPDM 7, BGPDUF 6, BMPDO 5, KAT 4, other regional
political groupings 22, independents 8; note - 43 seats unconfirmed

note:  irregularities and violence at a number of polling stations
necessitated the rescheduling of voting in certain constituencies;
voting postponed in Somali regional state because of severe drought

Judicial branch: Federal Supreme Court (the president and vice
president of the Federal Supreme Court are recommended by the prime
minister and appointed by the House of People's Representatives; for
other federal judges, the prime minister submits to the House of
People's Representatives for appointment candidates selected by the
Federal Judicial Administrative Council)

Political parties and leaders: Afar National Democratic Party or
ANDP [leader NA]; All-Amhara People's Organization or AAPO [KEGNAZ
MATCH Neguea Tibeb]; Amhara National Democratic Movement or ANDM
[TEFERA Walwa]; Bench Madji People's Democratic Organization or
BMPDO [leader NA]; Benishangul Gumuz People's Democratic Unity Front
or BGPDUF [leader NA]; Coalition of Alternative Forces for Peace and
Democracy or CAFPD [Kifle TIGNEH Abate and BEYENE Petros]; Ethiopian
Democratic Unity Party or EDUP [Lt. Gen. TESFAYE Gebre Kidan];
Ethiopian National Democratic Party or ENDP [FEKADU Gedamu];
Ethiopian People's Revolutionary Democratic Front or EPRDF [MELES
Zenawi] (an alliance of the ANDM, OPDO, and TPLF); Gedeyo People's
Revolutionary Democratic Movement or GPRDF [leader NA]; Gurange
Nationalities Democratic Movement or GNDM [leader NA]; Kafa Shaka
People's Democratic Organization or KSPDO [leader NA]; Kembata,
Alabaa, and Tembaro or KAT [leader NA]; Oromo Liberation Front or
OLF [DAOUD Ibsa Gudina]; Oromo People's Democratic Organization or
OPDO [KUMA Demeksa]; Sidama People's Democratic Organization or SPDO
[leader NA]; South Omo People's Democratic Movement or SOPDM [leader
NA]; Tigrai People's Liberation Front or TPLF [MELES Zenawi];
Walayta, Gamo, Gofa, Dawro, Konta People's Democratic Organization
or WGGPDO [leader NA]; dozens of small parties

Political pressure groups and leaders: Southern Ethiopia People's
Democratic Coalition; numerous small, ethnically based groups have
formed since the defeat of the former MENGISTU regime in 1991,
including several Islamic militant groups

International organization participation: ACP, AfDB, CCC, ECA, FAO,
G-24, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IGAD,
ILO, IMF, IMO, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM (observer), ISO, ITU,
NAM, OAU, OPCW, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNU, UPU, WFTU,
WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
(vacant)

chancery:  3506 International Drive NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone:  [1] (202) 364-1200

FAX:  [1] (202) 686-9857

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Tibor P. NAGY, Jr.

embassy:  Entoto Street, Addis Ababa

mailing address:  P. O. Box 1014, Addis Ababa

telephone:  [251] (1) 550666

FAX:  [251] (1) 551328

Flag description: three equal horizontal bands of green (top),
yellow, and red with a yellow pentagram and single yellow rays
emanating from the angles between the points on a light blue disk
centered on the three bands; Ethiopia is the oldest independent
country in Africa, and the colors of her flag were so often adopted
by other African countries upon independence that they became known
as the pan-African colors



Ethiopia    Economy

Economy - overview: Ethiopia's economy is based on agriculture,
which accounts for half of GDP, 90% of exports, and 80% of total
employment. The agricultural sector suffers from frequent periods of
drought and poor cultivation practices, and as many as 4.6 million
people need food assistance annually. Coffee is critical to the
Ethiopian economy, and Ethiopia earned $267 million in 1999 by
exporting 105,000 metric tons. According to current estimates,
coffee contributes 10% of Ethiopia's GDP. More than 15 million
people (25% of the population) derive their livelihood from the
coffee sector. Other exports include live animals, hides, gold, and
qat. In December 1999, Ethiopia signed a $1.4 billion joint venture
deal to develop a huge natural gas field in the Somali Regional
State. The war with Eritrea forced the government to spend scarce
resources on the military and to scale back ambitious development
plans. Foreign investment has declined significantly. Government
taxes imposed in late 1999 to raise money for the war depressed an
already weak economy. The war forced the government to improve roads
and other parts of the previously neglected infrastructure, but only
certain regions of the nation benefited. Recovery from the war is
mostly contingent on natural factors. A drought has continued into
the end of 2000 and food relief is expected to be needed through
mid-2001 at least. Ethiopia may receive Highly Indebted Poor
Countries (HIPC) debt relief by the end of the year.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $39.2 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 2% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $600 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  45%

industry:  12%

services:  43% (1999 est.)

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  3%

highest 10%:  33.7% (1995)

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 5% (2000 est.)

Labor force: NA

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture and animal husbandry 80%,
government and services 12%, industry and construction 8% (1985)

Unemployment rate: NA%

Budget: revenues:  $1 billion

expenditures:  $1.48 billion, including capital expenditures of $415
million (FY96/97)

Industries: food processing, beverages, textiles, chemicals, metals
processing, cement

Industrial production growth rate: NA%

Electricity - production: 1.625 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  3.08%

hydro:  96.92%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 1.511 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: cereals, pulses, coffee, oilseed, sugarcane,
potatoes, qat; hides, cattle, sheep, goats

Exports: $460 million (f.o.b., 1999)

Exports - commodities: coffee, gold, leather products, oilseeds, qat

Exports - partners: Germany 16%, Japan 13%, Djibouti 10%, Saudi
Arabia 7% (1999 est.)

Imports: $1.25 billion (f.o.b., 1999)

Imports - commodities: food and live animals, petroleum and
petroleum products, chemicals, machinery, motor vehicles

Imports - partners: Saudi Arabia 28%, Italy 10%, Russia 7%, US 6%
(1999 est.)

Debt - external: $10 billion (1999 est.)

Economic aid - recipient: $367 million (FY95/96)

Currency: birr (ETB)

Currency code: ETB

Exchange rates: birr per US dollar (end of period) - 8.3140
(December 2000), 8.3140 (2000), 8.1340 (1999), 7.5030 (1998), 6.8640
(1997), 6.4260 (1996)

note:  since May 1993, the birr market rate has been determined in
an interbank market supported by weekly wholesale auction

Fiscal year: 8 July - 7 July



Ethiopia    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 157,000 (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 4,000 (1999)

Telephone system: general assessment:  open wire and microwave radio
relay system adequate for government use

domestic:  open wire; microwave radio relay; radio communication in
the HF, VHF, and UHF frequencies; two domestic satellites provide
the national trunk service

international:  open wire to Sudan and Djibouti; microwave radio
relay to Kenya and Djibouti; satellite earth stations - 3 Intelsat
(1 Atlantic Ocean and 2 Pacific Ocean)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 5, FM 0, shortwave 2 (1999)

Radios: 11.75 million (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 25 (1999)

Televisions: 320,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .et

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 1 (2000)

Internet users: 7,200 (1999)



Ethiopia    Transportation

Railways: total:  681 km (Ethiopian segment of the Addis
Ababa-Djibouti railroad)

narrow gauge:  681 km 1.000-m gauge

note:  in April 1998, Djibouti and Ethiopia announced plans to
revitalize the century-old railroad that links their capitals; since
May 1998 Ethiopia has expended considerable effort to repair and
maintain the lines

Highways: total:  24,145 km

paved:  3,290 km

unpaved:  20,855 km (1998)

Waterways: none

Ports and harbors: none; Ethiopia is landlocked and was by agreement
with Eritrea using the ports of Assab and Massawa; since the border
dispute with Eritrea flared, Ethiopia has used the port of Djibouti
for nearly all of its imports

Merchant marine: total:  11 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
85,382 GRT/108,526 DWT

ships by type:  cargo 6, container 1, petroleum tanker 1, roll
on/roll off 3 (2000 est.)

Airports: 86 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  12

over 3,047 m:  3

2,438 to 3,047 m:  5

1,524 to 2,437 m:  3

914 to 1,523 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  74

over 3,047 m:  2

2,438 to 3,047 m:  7

1,524 to 2,437 m:  10

914 to 1,523 m:  35

under 914 m:  20 (2000 est.)



Ethiopia    Military

Military branches: Ground Forces, Air Force, Police, Militia

note:  Ethiopia is landlocked and has no navy; following the
independence of Eritrea, Ethiopian naval facilities remained in
Eritrean possession and ships which belonged to the former Ethiopian
Navy and based at Djibouti have been sold

Military manpower - military age: 18 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  14,537,884 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
7,581,815 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  703,625
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $138 million (FY98/99)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 2.5% (FY98/99)



Ethiopia    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: most of the southern half of the boundary
with Somalia is a Provisional Administrative Line; as a result of
the 12 December 2000 peace agreement ending a two year war with
Eritrea, the UN will administer a 25-km wide temporary security zone
within Eritrea until a joint boundary commission delimits and
demarcates a final boundary; dispute over alignment of boundary with
Eritrea led to armed conflict in 1998; a peace accord signed in
December 2000 provides for UN-assisted arbitration and demarcation
of the border

Illicit drugs: transit hub for heroin originating in Southwest and
Southeast Asia and destined for Europe and North America as well as
cocaine destined for markets in southern Africa; cultivates qat
(khat) for local use and regional export, principally to Djibouti
and Somalia

======================================================================

@Europa Island





Europa Island    Introduction

Background: A French possession since 1897, the island is heavily
wooded; it is the site of a small military garrison that staffs a
weather station.



Europa Island    Geography

Location: Southern Africa, island in the Mozambique Channel, about
one-half of the way from southern Madagascar to southern Mozambique

Geographic coordinates: 22 20 S, 40 22 E

Map references: Africa

Area: total:  28 sq km

land:  28 sq km

water:  0 sq km

Area - comparative: about 0.16 times the size of Washington, DC

Land boundaries: 0 km

Coastline: 22.2 km

Maritime claims: exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: tropical

Terrain: low and flat

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Indian Ocean 0 m

highest point:  unnamed location 24 m

Natural resources: NEGL

Land use: arable land:  0%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  0%

forests and woodland:  100%

other:  0%

Irrigated land: 0 sq km (1993)

Natural hazards: NA

Environment - current issues: NA

Geography - note: wildlife sanctuary



Europa Island    People

Population: no indigenous inhabitants

note:  there is a small French military garrison (July 2001 est.)



Europa Island    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  none

conventional short form:  Europa Island

local long form:  none

local short form:  Ile Europa

Dependency status: possession of France; administered by a high
commissioner of the Republic, resident in Reunion

Legal system: the laws of France, where applicable, apply

Flag description: the flag of France is used



Europa Island    Economy

Economy - overview: no economic activity



Europa Island    Communications

Communications - note: 1 meteorological station



Europa Island    Transportation

Waterways: none

Ports and harbors: none; offshore anchorage only

Airports: 1 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  1

914 to 1,523 m:  1 (2000 est.)



Europa Island    Military

Military - note: defense is the responsibility of France



Europa Island    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: claimed by Madagascar

======================================================================

@Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)





Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)    Introduction

Background: Although first sighted by an English navigator in 1592,
the first landing (English) did not occur until almost a century
later in 1690, and the first settlement (French) was not established
until 1764. The colony was turned over to Spain two years later and
the islands have since been the subject of a territorial dispute,
first between Britain and Spain, then between Britain and Argentina.
The UK asserted its claim to the islands by establishing a naval
garrison there in 1833. Argentina invaded the islands on 2 April
1982. The British responded with an expeditionary force that landed
seven weeks later and after fierce fighting forced Argentine
surrender on 14 June 1982.



Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)    Geography

Location: Southern South America, islands in the South Atlantic
Ocean, east of southern Argentina

Geographic coordinates: 51 45 S, 59 00 W

Map references: South America

Area: total:  12,173 sq km

land:  12,173 sq km

water:  0 sq km

note:  includes the two main islands of East and West Falkland and
about 200 small islands

Area - comparative: slightly smaller than Connecticut

Land boundaries: 0 km

Coastline: 1,288 km

Maritime claims: continental shelf:  200 NM

exclusive fishing zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: cold marine; strong westerly winds, cloudy, humid; rain
occurs on more than half of days in year; occasional snow all year,
except in January and February, but does not accumulate

Terrain: rocky, hilly, mountainous with some boggy, undulating plains

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Atlantic Ocean 0 m

highest point:  Mount Usborne 705 m

Natural resources: fish, wildlife

Land use: arable land:  0%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  99%

forests and woodland:  0%

other:  1% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: NA sq km

Natural hazards: strong winds persist throughout the year

Environment - current issues: NA

Geography - note: deeply indented coast provides good natural
harbors; short growing season



Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)    People

Population: 2,895 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  NA%

15-64 years:  NA%

65 years and over:  NA%

Population growth rate: 2.43% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: NA births/1,000 population

Death rate: NA deaths/1,000 population

Net migration rate: NA migrant(s)/1,000 population

Infant mortality rate: NA deaths/1,000 live births

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  NA years

male:  NA years

female:  NA years

Total fertility rate: NA children born/woman

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: NA%

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: NA

HIV/AIDS - deaths: NA

Nationality: noun:  Falkland Islander(s)

adjective:  Falkland Island

Ethnic groups: British

Religions: primarily Anglican, Roman Catholic, United Free Church,
Evangelist Church, Jehovah's Witnesses, Lutheran, Seventh-Day
Adventist

Languages: English



Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  none

conventional short form:  Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)

Dependency status: overseas territory of the UK; also claimed by
Argentina

Government type: NA

Capital: Stanley

Administrative divisions: none (overseas territory of the UK; also
claimed by Argentina)

Independence: none (overseas territory of the UK; also claimed by
Argentina)

National holiday: Liberation Day, 14 June (1982)

Constitution: 3 October 1985; amended 1997 and 1998

Legal system: English common law

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6
February 1952)

head of government:  Governor Donald LAMONT (since NA May 1999);
Chief Executive A. M. GURR (since NA); Financial Secretary D. F.
HOWATT (since NA)

cabinet:  Executive Council; three members elected by the
Legislative Council, two ex officio members (chief executive and the
financial secretary), and the governor

elections:  none; the monarch is hereditary; governor appointed by
the monarch

Legislative branch: unicameral Legislative Council (10 seats - 2 ex
officio, 8 elected by popular vote, members serve four-year terms)
presided over by the governor

elections:  last held 9 October 1997 (next to be held NA October
2001)

election results:  percent of vote - NA%; seats - independents 8

Judicial branch: Supreme Court (chief justice is a nonresident);
Magistrates Court (senior magistrate presides over civil and
criminal divisions)

Political parties and leaders: none; all independents

Political pressure groups and leaders: none

International organization participation: ICFTU

Diplomatic representation in the US: none (overseas territory of the
UK; also claimed by Argentina)

Diplomatic representation from the US: none (overseas territory of
the UK; also claimed by Argentina)

Flag description: blue with the flag of the UK in the upper
hoist-side quadrant and the Falkland Island coat of arms in a white
disk centered on the outer half of the flag; the coat of arms
contains a white ram (sheep raising is the major economic activity)
above the sailing ship Desire (whose crew discovered the islands)
with a scroll at the bottom bearing the motto DESIRE THE RIGHT



Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)    Economy

Economy - overview: The economy was formerly based on agriculture,
mainly sheep farming, but today fishing contributes the bulk of
economic activity. In 1987 the government began selling fishing
licenses to foreign trawlers operating within the Falklands
exclusive fishing zone. These license fees total more than $40
million per year, which goes to support the island's health,
education, and welfare system. Squid accounts for 75% of the fish
taken. Dairy farming supports domestic consumption; crops furnish
winter fodder. Exports feature shipments of high-grade wool to the
UK and the sale of postage stamps and coins. To encourage tourism,
the Falkland Islands Development Corporation has built three lodges
for visitors attracted by the abundant wildlife and trout fishing.
The islands are now self-financing except for defense. The British
Geological Survey announced a 200-mile oil exploration zone around
the islands in 1993, and early seismic surveys suggest substantial
reserves capable of producing 500,000 barrels per day; to date no
exploitable site has been identified. An agreement between Argentina
and the UK in 1995 seeks to defuse licensing and sovereignty
conflicts that would dampen foreign interest in exploiting potential
oil reserves.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $52 million (FY95/96 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 1% (FY95/96 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $19,000 (FY95/96 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  NA%

industry:  NA%

services:  NA%

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 3.6% (1998)

Labor force: 1,100 (est.)

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture 95% (mostly sheepherding
and fishing)

Unemployment rate: full employment; labor shortage

Budget: revenues:  $66.2 million

expenditures:  $67.9 million, including capital expenditures of
$23.2 million (FY98/99 est.)

Industries: wool and fish processing; sale of stamps and coins

Industrial production growth rate: NA%

Electricity - production: 12 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  100%

hydro:  0%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 11.2 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: fodder and vegetable crops; sheep, dairy
products

Exports: $7.6 million (1995)

Exports - commodities: wool, hides, meat

Exports - partners: UK, Japan, Chile, NZ

Imports: $24.7 million (1995)

Imports - commodities: fuel, food and drink, building materials,
clothing

Imports - partners: UK, Japan, Chile, NZ

Debt - external: $NA

Economic aid - recipient: $1.7 million (1995)

Currency: Falkland pound (FKP)

Currency code: FKP

Exchange rates: Falkland pounds per US dollar - 0.6764 (January
2001), 0.6596 (2000), 0.6180 (1999), 0.6037 (1998), 0.6106 (1997),
0.6403 (1996); note - the Falkland pound is at par with the British
pound

Fiscal year: 1 April - 31 March



Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: NA

Telephones - mobile cellular: NA

Telephone system: general assessment:  NA

domestic:  government-operated radiotelephone and private VHF/CB
radiotelephone networks provide effective service to almost all
points on both islands

international:  satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (Atlantic
Ocean) with links through London to other countries

Radio broadcast stations: AM 1, FM 7, shortwave 0 (1998)

Radios: 1,000 (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 2 (operated by the British Forces
Broadcasting Service) (1997)

Televisions: 1,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .fk

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 2 (2000)

Internet users: NA



Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)    Transportation

Railways: 0 km

Highways: total:  440 km

paved:  50 km

unpaved:  390 km

Waterways: none

Ports and harbors: Stanley

Merchant marine: none (2000 est.)

Airports: 5 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  2

2,438 to 3,047 m:  1

under 914 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  3

under 914 m:  3 (2000 est.)



Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)    Military

Military branches: British Forces Falkland Islands (includes Army,
Royal Air Force, Royal Navy, and Royal Marines), Police Force

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $NA

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: NA%

Military - note: defense is the responsibility of the UK



Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: claimed by Argentina

======================================================================

@Faroe Islands





Faroe Islands    Introduction

Background: The population of the Faroe Islands is largely descended
from Viking settlers who arrived in the 9th century. The islands
have been connected politically to Denmark since the 14th century. A
high degree of self-government was attained in 1948.



Faroe Islands    Geography

Location: Northern Europe, island group between the Norwegian Sea
and the North Atlantic Ocean, about one-half of the way from Iceland
to Norway

Geographic coordinates: 62 00 N, 7 00 W

Map references: Europe

Area: total:  1,399 sq km

land:  1,399 sq km

water:  0 sq km (some lakes and streams)

Area - comparative: eight times the size of Washington, DC

Land boundaries: 0 km

Coastline: 1,117 km

Maritime claims: continental shelf:  200 NM or agreed boundaries or
median line

exclusive fishing zone:  200 NM or agreed boundaries or median line

territorial sea:  3 NM

Climate: mild winters, cool summers; usually overcast; foggy, windy

Terrain: rugged, rocky, some low peaks; cliffs along most of coast

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Atlantic Ocean 0 m

highest point:  Slaettaratindur 882 m

Natural resources: fish, whales, hydropower

Land use: arable land:  6%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  0%

forests and woodland:  0%

other:  94% (1996)

Irrigated land: 0 sq km

Natural hazards: NA

Environment - current issues: NA

Geography - note: archipelago of 17 inhabited islands and one
uninhabited island, and a few uninhabited islets; strategically
located along important sea lanes in northeastern Atlantic;
precipitous terrain limits habitation to small coastal lowlands



Faroe Islands    People

Population: 45,661 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  22.62% (male 5,193; female 5,136)

15-64 years:  63.64% (male 15,463; female 13,596)

65 years and over:  13.74% (male 2,802; female 3,471) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 0.78% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 13.64 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 8.69 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 2.89 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.01 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1.14 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.81 male(s)/female

total population:  1.06 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 6.8 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  78.59 years

male:  75.12 years

female:  82.06 years

Total fertility rate: 2.3 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: NA%

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: NA

HIV/AIDS - deaths: NA

Nationality: noun:  Faroese (singular and plural)

adjective:  Faroese

Ethnic groups: Scandinavian

Religions: Evangelical Lutheran

Languages: Faroese (derived from Old Norse), Danish

Literacy: definition:  NA

total population:  NA%

male:  NA%

female:  NA%

note:  similar to Denmark proper



Faroe Islands    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  none

conventional short form:  Faroe Islands

local long form:  none

local short form:  Foroyar

Dependency status: part of the Kingdom of Denmark; self-governing
overseas administrative division of Denmark since 1948

Government type: NA

Capital: Torshavn

Administrative divisions: none (part of the Kingdom of Denmark;
self-governing overseas administrative division of Denmark); there
are no first-order administrative divisions as defined by the US
Government, but there are 49 municipalities

Independence: none (part of the Kingdom of Denmark; self-governing
overseas administrative division of Denmark)

National holiday: Olaifest, 29 July

Constitution: 5 June 1953 (Danish constitution)

Legal system: Danish

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  Queen MARGRETHE II of Denmark
(since 14 January 1972), represented by High Commissioner Ms. Vibeke
LARSEN, chief administrative officer (since NA)

head of government:  Prime Minister Anfinn KALLSBERG (since 15 May
1998)

cabinet:  Landsstyri appointed by the prime minister

elections:  the monarch is hereditary; high commissioner appointed
by the monarch; following legislative elections, the leader of the
party that wins the most seats is usually elected prime minister by
the Faroese Parliament; election last held 30 April 1998 (next to be
held no later than April 2002)

election results:  Anfinn KALLSBERG elected prime minister; percent
of parliamentary vote - 52.8%

note:  coalition of People's Party, Republican Party and Home Rule
Party

Legislative branch: unicameral Faroese Parliament or Logting (32
seats; members are elected by popular vote on a proportional basis
from the seven constituencies to serve four-year terms)

elections:  last held 30 April 1998 (next to be held not later than
April 2002)

election results:  percent of vote by party - Republican Party
23.8%, People's Party 21.3%, Social Democratic Party 21.9%, Union
Party 18%, Home Rue Party 7.7%, Center Party 4.1%; seats by party -
Republican Party 8, People's Party 8, Social Democratic Party 7,
Union Party 6, Home Rule Party 2, Center Party 1

note:  election of 2 seats to the Danish Parliament was last held on
11 March 1998 (next to be held not later than March 2002); results -
percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party - Social Democratic
Party 1, People's Party 1

Judicial branch: none

Political parties and leaders: Center Party [Jenis A. RANA]; Home
Rule Party [Helena Dam a NEYSTABO]; People's Party [Oli BRECKMANN];
Republican Party [Hogni HOYDAL]; Social Democratic Party [Joannes
EIDESGAARD]; Union Party [Edmund JOENSEN]

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: NC, NIB

Diplomatic representation in the US: none (self-governing overseas
administrative division of Denmark)

Diplomatic representation from the US: none (self-governing overseas
administrative division of Denmark)

Flag description: white with a red cross outlined in blue that
extends to the edges of the flag; the vertical part of the cross is
shifted to the hoist side in the style of the Dannebrog (Danish flag)



Faroe Islands    Economy

Economy - overview: The Faroese economy has had a strong performance
since 1994, mostly as a result of increasing fish landings and high
and stable export prices. Unemployment is falling and there are
signs of labor shortages in several sectors. The positive economic
development has helped the Faroese Home Rule Government produce
increasing budget surpluses which in turn help to reduce the large
public debt, most of it owed to Denmark. However, the total
dependence on fishing makes the Faroese economy extremely
vulnerable, and the present fishing efforts appear in excess of what
is required to ensure a sustainable level of fishing in the long
term. Oil finds close to the Faroese area give hope for deposits in
the immediate Faroese area, which may eventually lay the basis for a
more diversified economy and thus less dependence on Denmark and
Danish economic assistance. Aided by a substantial annual subsidy
(15% of GDP) from Denmark, the Faroese have a standard of living not
far below the Danes and other Scandinavians.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $910 million (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 5% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $20,000 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  27%

industry:  11%

services:  62% (1999)

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 5.1% (1999)

Labor force: 24,250 (October 2000)

Labor force - by occupation: fishing, fish processing, and
manufacturing 33%, construction and private services 33%, public
services 34%

Unemployment rate: 1% (October 2000)

Budget: revenues:  $488 million

expenditures:  $484 million, including capital expenditures of $21
million (1999)

Industries: fishing, fish processing, shipbuilding, construction,
handicrafts

Industrial production growth rate: 8% (1999 est.)

Electricity - production: 170 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  58.82%

hydro:  41.18%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 158.1 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: milk, potatoes, vegetables; sheep; salmon,
other fish

Exports: $471 million (f.o.b., 1999)

Exports - commodities: fish and fish products 94%, stamps, ships
(1999)

Exports - partners: Denmark 32%, UK 21%, France 9%, Germany 7%,
Iceland 5%, US 5% (1996)

Imports: $469 million (c.i.f., 1999)

Imports - commodities: machinery and transport equipment 29%,
consumer goods 36%, raw materials and semi-manufactures 32%, fuels,
fish and salt (1999)

Imports - partners: Denmark 28%, Norway 26%, Germany 7%, UK 6%
Sweden 5%, Iceland 4%, US (1999)

Debt - external: $64 million (1999)

Economic aid - recipient: $135 million (annual subsidy from Denmark)
(1999)

Currency: Danish krone (DKK)

Currency code: DKK

Exchange rates: Danish kroner per US dollar - 7.951 (January 2001),
8.093 (2000), 6.976 (1999), 6.701 (1998), 6.604 (1997), 5.799 (1966)

Fiscal year: calendar year



Faroe Islands    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 24,851 (1999)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 10,761 (1999)

Telephone system: general assessment:  good international
communications; good domestic facilities

domestic:  digitalization was completed in 1998; both NMT (analog)
and GSM (digital) mobile telephone systems are installed

international:  satellite earth stations - 1 Orion; 1 fiber-optic
submarine cable to the Shetland Islands, linking the Faroe Islands
with Denmark and Iceland; fiber-optic submarine cable connection to
Canada-Europe cable

Radio broadcast stations: AM 1, FM 13, shortwave 0 (1998)

Radios: 26,000 (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 3 (plus 43 low-power repeaters)
(September 1995)

Televisions: 15,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .fo

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 2 (2000)

Internet users: 3,000 (2000)



Faroe Islands    Transportation

Railways: 0 km

Highways: total:  463 km

paved:  454 km

unpaved:  9 km (1999)

Waterways: none

Ports and harbors: Torshavn, Klaksvik, Tvoroyri, Runavik,
Fuglafjorour

Merchant marine: total:  6 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 23,247
GRT/11,736 DWT

ships by type:  cargo 2, petroleum tanker 1, refrigerated cargo 1,
roll on/roll off 1, short-sea passenger 1 (2000 est.)

Airports: 1 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  1

914 to 1,523 m:  1 (2000 est.)



Faroe Islands    Military

Military branches: defense is the responsibility of Denmark; no
organized native military forces; only a small Police Force and
Coast Guard are maintained

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $NA

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: NA%

Military - note: defense is the responsibility of Denmark



Faroe Islands    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: Faroese are considering proposals for full
independence

======================================================================

@Fiji




Fiji    Introduction

Background: Fiji became independent in 1970, after nearly a century
as a British colony. Democratic rule was interrupted by two military
coups in 1987, caused by concern over a government perceived as
dominated by the Indian community (descendants of contract laborers
brought to the islands by the British in the 19th century). A 1990
constitution favored native Melanesian control of Fiji, but led to
heavy Indian emigration; the population loss resulted in economic
difficulties, but ensured that Melanesians became the majority.
Amendments enacted in 1997 made the constitution more equitable.
Free and peaceful elections in 1999 resulted in a government led by
an Indo-Fijian, but a coup in May of 2000 ushered in a prolonged
period of political turmoil. New elections are scheduled for August
2001.



Fiji    Geography

Location: Oceania, island group in the South Pacific Ocean, about
two-thirds of the way from Hawaii to New Zealand

Geographic coordinates: 18 00 S, 175 00 E

Map references: Oceania

Area: total:  18,270 sq km

land:  18,270 sq km

water:  0 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly smaller than New Jersey

Land boundaries: 0 km

Coastline: 1,129 km

Maritime claims: measured from claimed archipelagic baselines

continental shelf:  200-m depth or to the depth of exploitation;
rectilinear shelf claim added

exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: tropical marine; only slight seasonal temperature variation

Terrain: mostly mountains of volcanic origin

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Pacific Ocean 0 m

highest point:  Tomanivi 1,324 m

Natural resources: timber, fish, gold, copper, offshore oil
potential, hydropower

Land use: arable land:  10%

permanent crops:  4%

permanent pastures:  10%

forests and woodland:  65%

other:  11% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 10 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: cyclonic storms can occur from November to January

Environment - current issues: deforestation; soil erosion

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification,
Endangered Species, Law of the Sea, Marine Life Conservation,
Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection, Tropical Timber 83,
Tropical Timber 94

signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Geography - note: includes 332 islands of which approximately 110
are inhabited



Fiji    People

Population: 844,330 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  32.92% (male 141,724; female 136,216)

15-64 years:  63.52% (male 268,411; female 267,871)

65 years and over:  3.56% (male 14,007; female 16,101) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 1.41% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 23.33 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 5.75 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: -3.45 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.87 male(s)/female

total population:  1.01 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 14.08 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  68.25 years

male:  65.83 years

female:  70.78 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 2.86 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 0.07% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: NA

HIV/AIDS - deaths: NA

Nationality: noun:  Fijian(s)

adjective:  Fijian

Ethnic groups: Fijian 51% (predominantly Melanesian with a
Polynesian admixture), Indian 44%, European, other Pacific
Islanders, overseas Chinese, and other 5% (1998 est.)

Religions: Christian 52% (Methodist 37%, Roman Catholic 9%), Hindu
38%, Muslim 8%, other 2%

note:  Fijians are mainly Christian, Indians are Hindu, and there is
a Muslim minority (1986)

Languages: English (official), Fijian, Hindustani

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  91.6%

male:  93.8%

female:  89.3% (1995 est.)



Fiji    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Republic of the Fiji Islands

conventional short form:  Fiji

Government type: republic

note:  military coup leader Maj. Gen. Sitiveni RABUKA formally
declared Fiji a republic on 6 October 1987

Capital: Suva

Administrative divisions: 4 divisions and 1 dependency*; Central,
Eastern, Northern, Rotuma*, Western

Independence: 10 October 1970 (from UK)

National holiday: Independence Day, second Monday of October (1970)

Constitution: 10 October 1970 (suspended 1 October 1987); a new
constitution was proposed on 23 September 1988 and promulgated on 25
July 1990; amended 25 July 1997 to allow nonethnic Fijians greater
say in government and to make multiparty government mandatory;
entered into force 28 July 1998; note - the May 1999 election was
the first test of the amended constitution and introduced open
voting - not racially prescribed - for the first time at the
national level

Legal system: based on British system

Suffrage: 21 years of age; universal

Executive branch: note:  armed ethnic Fijian terrorists, led by
George SPEIGHT stormed the Parliament building on 19 May 2000;
ethnic Indo-Fijian Prime Minister Mahendra CHAUDHRY and his
government were held hostage for 56 days; following the attempted
coup, the Commander of the Fiji Military Forces, naval Commodore
Frank BAINIMARAMA declared martial law and dissolved the government
on 29 May 2000; an interim government, headed by interim Prime
Minister Laisenia QARASE, was appointed to serve until a new
constitution was initiated and subsequent elections held; in
November 2000, Fiji's High Court upheld the 1997 constitution and
ruled that Ratu Sir Kamisese MARA remained the president; Justice
Anthony GATES concluded that MARA should recall the pre-May 19th
Parliament and appoint a prime minister to form a new government;
the Fiji Court of Appeals upheld GATES' decision on 1 March 2001; it
ruled that the 1997 constitution had not been abrogated, Parliament
had not been dissolved, only prorogued for six months, and that the
presidency remained vacant since MARA's resignation took effect 15
December 2000; President Ratu Josefa ILOILO reinstated QARASE's
interim government as the caretaker government and elections were
scheduled for August 2001; approximately 23 fluid political parties
are currently jockeying for power

chief of state:  President Ratu Josefa ILOILO (since NA 2000); Vice
President Jope SENILOLI (since NA 2000)

head of government:  Prime Minister Laisenia QARASE (since NA 2000);
Deputy Prime Minister Epeli NAILATIKAU (since NA 2000)

cabinet:  Cabinet appointed by the prime minister from among the
members of Parliament and is responsible to Parliament; note -there
is also a Presidential Council that advises the president on matters
of national importance and a Great Council of Chiefs which consists
of the highest ranking members of the traditional chiefly system

elections:  president elected by the Great Council of Chiefs for a
five-year term; prime minister appointed by the president

election results:  Ratu Josefa ILOILO elected president by the Great
Council of Chiefs; percent of vote - NA%

Legislative branch: bicameral Parliament consists of the Senate (32
seats; 14 appointed by the Great Council of Chiefs, nine appointed
by the prime minister, eight appointed by the leader of the
opposition, and one appointed by the council of Rotuma) and the
House of Representatives (71 seats; 23 reserved for ethnic Fijians,
19 reserved for ethnic Indians, three reserved for other ethnic
groups, one reserved for the council of Rotuma constituency
encompassing the whole of Fiji, and 25 open; members serve five-year
terms)

elections:  House of Representatives - last held 11 May 1999 (next
to be held NA May 2004)

election results:  House of Representatives - percent of vote by
party - NA%; seats by party - Fiji Labor Party 37, others 34

Judicial branch: Supreme Court (judges are appointed by the
president)

Political parties and leaders: Fiji Labor Party or FLP [Mahendra
CHAUDHRY]; Fijian Nationalist Federation Party or NFP [Singh RAKKA];
Fijian Political Party or SVT (primarily Fijian) [Maj. Gen. Sitiveni
RABUKA]; National Federation Party or NFP (primarily Indian) [Jai
Ram REDDY]; United General Party or UGP [David PICKERING]

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: ACP, AsDB, C, CCC, CP,
ESCAP, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS,
IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, ISO (subscriber), ITU,
OPCW, Sparteca, SPC, SPF, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNIFIL, UNIKOM,
UNMIBH, UNMIK, UNTAET, UPU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
(vacant); Charge d'Affaires ad interim Salaseini Lelelvawalu
VOSAILAGI

chancery:  Suite 240, 2233 Wisconsin Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20007

telephone:  [1] (202) 337-8320

FAX:  [1] (202) 337-1996

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Osman M. SIDDIQUE

embassy:  31 Loftus Street, Suva

mailing address:  P. O. Box 218, Suva

telephone:  [679] 314466

FAX:  [679] 300081

Flag description: light blue with the flag of the UK in the upper
hoist-side quadrant and the Fijian shield centered on the outer half
of the flag; the shield depicts a yellow lion above a white field
quartered by the cross of Saint George featuring stalks of
sugarcane, a palm tree, bananas, and a white dove



Fiji    Economy

Economy - overview: Fiji, endowed with forest, mineral, and fish
resources, is one of the most developed of the Pacific island
economies, though still with a large subsistence sector. Sugar
exports and a growing tourist industry are the major sources of
foreign exchange. Sugar processing makes up one-third of industrial
activity. Roughly 300,000 tourists visit each year, including
thousands of Americans following the start of regularly scheduled
non-stop air service from Los Angeles. Fiji's growth slowed in 1997
because the sugar industry suffered from low world prices and rent
disputes between farmers and landowners. Drought in 1998 further
damaged the sugar industry, but its recovery in 1999 contributed to
robust GDP growth. Long-term problems include low investment and
uncertain property rights. The political turmoil in Fiji has had a
severe impact with the economy shrinking by 8% in 1999 and over
7,000 people losing their jobs. The interim government's 2001 budget
is an attempt to attract foreign investment and restart economic
activity. The government's ability to manage the budget and fulfill
predictions of 4% growth for 2001 will depend on a return to
stability, a regaining of investor confidence, and the absence of
international sanctions (which could cripple Fiji's sugar and
textile industry).

GDP: purchasing power parity - $5.9 billion (1999 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: -8% (1999 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $7,300 (1999 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  16%

industry:  30%

services:  54% (1999 est.)

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 0% (1999 est.)

Labor force: 235,000

Labor force - by occupation: subsistence agriculture 67%, wage
earners 18%, salary earners 15% (1987)

Unemployment rate: 6% (1997 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $610 million

expenditures:  $501 million, including capital expenditures of $NA
(1999 est.)

Industries: tourism, sugar, clothing, copra, gold, silver, lumber,
small cottage industries

Industrial production growth rate: 2.9% (1995)

Electricity - production: 510 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  17.65%

hydro:  82.35%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 474.3 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: sugarcane, coconuts, cassava (tapioca),
rice, sweet potatoes, bananas; cattle, pigs, horses, goats; fish

Exports: $537 million (f.o.b., 1999)

Exports - commodities: sugar, garments, gold, timber, fish

Exports - partners: Australia 33.1%, US 14.8%, UK 13.8%, other
Pacific island countries 8.8%, NZ 4.5%, Japan 4.5% (1999)

Imports: $653 million (f.o.b., 1999)

Imports - commodities: manufactured goods, machinery and transport
equipment, petroleum products, food, chemicals

Imports - partners: Australia 41.9%, US 14%, NZ 13.3%, Japan 4.8%,
Taiwan 1.9% (1999)

Debt - external: $193 million (1998)

Economic aid - recipient: $40.3 million (1995)

Currency: Fijian dollar (FJD)

Currency code: FJD

Exchange rates: Fijian dollars per US dollar - 2.1814 (January
2001), 2.1286 (2000), 1.9696 (1999), 1.9868 (1998), 1.4437 (1997),
1.4033 (1996)

Fiscal year: calendar year



Fiji    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 72,000 (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 5,200 (1997)

Telephone system: general assessment:  modern local, interisland,
and international (wire/radio integrated) public and special-purpose
telephone, telegraph, and teleprinter facilities; regional radio
communications center

domestic:  NA

international:  access to important cable links between US and
Canada as well as between NZ and Australia; satellite earth station
- 1 Intelsat (Pacific Ocean)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 13, FM 40, shortwave 0 (1998)

Radios: 500,000 (1997)

Television broadcast stations: NA

Televisions: 21,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .fj

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 2 (2000)

Internet users: 7,500 (2000)



Fiji    Transportation

Railways: total:  597 km; note - belongs to the government-owned
Fiji Sugar Corporation

narrow gauge:  597 km 0.610-m gauge (1995)

Highways: total:  3,440 km

paved:  1,692 km

unpaved:  1,748 km (1996)

Waterways: 203 km

note:  122 km navigable by motorized craft and 200-metric-ton barges

Ports and harbors: Lambasa, Lautoka, Levuka, Savusavu, Suva

Merchant marine: total:  6 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 11,870
GRT/14,787 DWT

ships by type:  chemical tanker 2, passenger 1, petroleum tanker 1,
roll on/roll off 1, specialized tanker 1 (2000 est.)

Airports: 27 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  3

over 3,047 m:  1

1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

914 to 1,523 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  24

1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

914 to 1,523 m:  4

under 914 m:  19 (2000 est.)



Fiji    Military

Military branches: Republic of Fiji Military Forces (RFMF; includes
ground and naval forces)

Military manpower - military age: 18 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  227,599 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
125,238 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  9,471
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $24 million (FY98)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 1.1% (FY98)



Fiji    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

======================================================================

@Finland




Finland    Introduction

Background: Ruled by Sweden from the 12th to the 19th centuries and
by Russia from 1809, Finland finally won its independence in 1917.
During World War II, it was able to successfully defend its freedom
and fend off invasions by the Soviet Union and Germany. In the
subsequent half century, the Finns have made a remarkable
transformation from a farm/forest economy to a diversified modern
industrial economy; per capita income is now on par with Western
Europe. As a member of the European Union, Finland was the only
Nordic state to join the euro system at its initiation in January
1999.



Finland    Geography

Location: Northern Europe, bordering the Baltic Sea, Gulf of
Bothnia, and Gulf of Finland, between Sweden and Russia

Geographic coordinates: 64 00 N, 26 00 E

Map references: Europe

Area: total:  337,030 sq km

land:  305,470 sq km

water:  31,560 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly smaller than Montana

Land boundaries: total:  2,628 km

border countries:  Norway 729 km, Sweden 586 km, Russia 1,313 km

Coastline: 1,126 km (excludes islands and coastal indentations)

Maritime claims: continental shelf:  200-m depth or to the depth of
exploitation

exclusive fishing zone:  12 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM (in the Gulf of Finland - 3 NM)

Climate: cold temperate; potentially subarctic, but comparatively
mild because of moderating influence of the North Atlantic Current,
Baltic Sea, and more than 60,000 lakes

Terrain: mostly low, flat to rolling plains interspersed with lakes
and low hills

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Baltic Sea 0 m

highest point:  Haltiatunturi 1,328 m

Natural resources: timber, copper, zinc, iron ore, silver

Land use: arable land:  8%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  0%

forests and woodland:  76%

other:  16% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 640 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: NA

Environment - current issues: air pollution from manufacturing and
power plants contributing to acid rain; water pollution from
industrial wastes, agricultural chemicals; habitat loss threatens
wildlife populations

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Air Pollution,
Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air Pollution-Sulphur 85, Air
Pollution-Sulphur 94, Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds,
Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic-Marine Living Resources,
Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification,
Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes,
Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Marine Life Conservation, Nuclear
Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber
83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling

signed, but not ratified:  Air Pollution-Persistent Organic
Pollutants, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol

Geography - note: long boundary with Russia; Helsinki is
northernmost national capital on European continent; population
concentrated on small southwestern coastal plain



Finland    People

Population: 5,175,783 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  18% (male 474,967; female 456,584)

15-64 years:  66.97% (male 1,750,660; female 1,715,358)

65 years and over:  15.03% (male 300,569; female 477,645) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 0.16% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 10.69 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 9.75 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 0.61 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.03 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1.02 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.63 male(s)/female

total population:  0.95 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 3.79 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  77.58 years

male:  73.92 years

female:  81.36 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 1.7 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 0.05% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 1,100 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: less than 100 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Finn(s)

adjective:  Finnish

Ethnic groups: Finn 93%, Swede 6%, Sami 0.11%, Roma 0.12%, Tatar
0.02%

Religions: Evangelical Lutheran 89%, Greek Orthodox 1%, none 9%,
other 1%

Languages: Finnish 93.4% (official), Swedish 5.9% (official), small
Lapp- and Russian-speaking minorities

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  100% (1980 est.)

male:  NA%

female:  NA%



Finland    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Republic of Finland

conventional short form:  Finland

local long form:  Suomen Tasavalta

local short form:  Suomi

Government type: republic

Capital: Helsinki

Administrative divisions: 6 provinces (laanit, singular - laani);
Aland, Etela-Suomen Laani, Ita-Suomen Laani, Lansi-Suomen Laani,
Lappi, Oulun Laani

Independence: 6 December 1917 (from Russia)

National holiday: Independence Day, 6 December (1917)

Constitution: 17 July 1919

Legal system: civil law system based on Swedish law; Supreme Court
may request legislation interpreting or modifying laws; accepts
compulsory ICJ jurisdiction, with reservations

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Tarja HALONEN (since 1
March 2000)

head of government:  Prime Minister Paavo LIPPONEN (since 13 April
1995) and Deputy Prime Minister Sauli NIINISTO (since 13 April 1995)

cabinet:  Council of State or Valtioneuvosto appointed by the
president, responsible to Parliament

elections:  president elected by popular vote for a six-year term;
election last held 6 February 2000 (next to be held NA February
2006); prime minister and deputy prime minister appointed from the
majority party by the president after parliamentary elections

election results:  Tarja HALONEN elected president; percent of vote
- Tarja HALONEN (SDP) 51.6%, Esco AHO (Kesk) 48.4%

note:  government coalition - SDP, Kok, Leftist Alliance (People's
Democratic Union and Democratic Alternative), SFP, and Green Union

Legislative branch: unicameral Parliament or Eduskunta (200 seats;
members are elected by popular vote on a proportional basis to serve
four-year terms)

elections:  last held 21 March 1999 (next to be held NA March 2003)

election results:  percent of vote by party - SDP 22.9%, Kesk 22.5%,
Kok 21.0%, Leftist Alliance (Communist) 10.9%, SFP 5.1%, Green Union
7.2%, SKL 4.2%; seats by party - SDP 51, Kesk 48, Kok 46, Leftist
Alliance (Communist) 20, SFP 11, Green Union 11, SKL 10, other 3

Judicial branch: Supreme Court or Korkein Oikeus (judges appointed
by the president)

Political parties and leaders: Center Party or Kesk [Esko AHO];
Finnish Christian Union or SKL [C. P. Bjarne KALLIS]; Green Union
[Satu HASSI]; Leftist Alliance (Communist) composed of People's
Democratic League and Democratic Alternative [Suvi-Anne SIIMES];
National Coalition (conservative) Party or Kok [Sauli NIINISTO];
Reform Group [Risto KUISMA]; Social Democratic Party or SDP [Paavo
LIPPONEN]; Swedish People's Party or SFP [Jan-Erik ENESTAM]; True
Finns [Timo SOINI]

Political pressure groups and leaders: Communist Workers Party [Timo
LAHDENMAKI]; Constitutional Rightist Party; Finnish Communist
Party-Unity [Yrjo HAKANEN]; Finnish Pensioners Party

International organization participation: AfDB, AsDB, Australia
Group, BIS, CBSS, CCC, CE, CERN, EAPC, EBRD, ECE, EIB, EMU, ESA, EU,
FAO, G- 9, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IEA, IFAD,
IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC,
IOM, ISO, ITU, NAM (guest), NC, NEA, NIB, NSG, OAS (observer), OECD,
OPCW, OSCE, PCA, PFP, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNFICYP, UNHCR, UNIDO,
UNIFIL, UNIKOM, UNMEE, UNMIBH, UNMIK, UNMOGIP, UNMOP, UNTSO, UPU,
WEU (observer), WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO, ZC

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Jaakko Tapani LAAJAVA

chancery:  3301 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone:  [1] (202) 298-5800

FAX:  [1] (202) 298-6030

consulate(s) general:  Los Angeles and New York

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
(vacant); Charge d'Affaires Carol VAN VOORST

embassy:  Itainen Puistotie 14B, FIN-00140, Helsinki

mailing address:  APO AE 09723

telephone:  [358] (9) 171931

FAX:  [358] (9) 174681

Flag description: white with a blue cross that extends to the edges
of the flag; the vertical part of the cross is shifted to the hoist
side in the style of the Dannebrog (Danish flag)



Finland    Economy

Economy - overview: Finland has a highly industrialized, largely
free-market economy, with per capita output roughly that of the UK,
France, Germany, and Italy. Its key economic sector is manufacturing
- principally the wood, metals, engineering, telecommunications, and
electronics industries. Trade is important, with exports equaling
more than one-third of GDP. Except for timber and several minerals,
Finland depends on imports of raw materials, energy, and some
components for manufactured goods. Because of the climate,
agricultural development is limited to maintaining self-sufficiency
in basic products. Forestry, an important export earner, provides a
secondary occupation for the rural population. Rapidly increasing
integration with Western Europe - Finland was one of the 11
countries joining the euro monetary system (EMU) on 1 January 1999 -
will dominate the economic picture over the next several years.
Growth in 2001 will be bolstered by strong private consumption, yet
may be 1 or 2 points lower than in 2000, largely because of a
weakening in export demand.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $118.3 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 5.6% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $22,900 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  3.5%

industry:  29%

services:  67.5% (1999)

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:
4.2%

highest 10%:  21.6% (1991)

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 3.4% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 2.6 million (2000 est.)

Labor force - by occupation: public services 32%, industry 22%,
commerce 14%, finance, insurance, and business services 10%,
agriculture and forestry 8%, transport and communications 8%,
construction 6%

Unemployment rate: 9.8% (2000 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $36.1 billion

expenditures:  $31 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
(2000 est.)

Industries: metal products, shipbuilding, pulp and paper, copper
refining, foodstuffs, chemicals, textiles, clothing

Industrial production growth rate: 7.5% (2000)

Electricity - production: 75.792 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  41.88%

hydro:  16.77%

nuclear:  28.82%

other:  12.53% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 81.611 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 232 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 11.356 billion kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: cereals, sugar beets, potatoes; dairy
cattle; fish

Exports: $44.4 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Exports - commodities: machinery and equipment, chemicals, metals;
timber, paper, pulp

Exports - partners: EU 58% (Germany 13%, Sweden 10%, UK 9%, France
5%, Netherlands 4%), US 8%, Russia, Japan (1999)

Imports: $32.7 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Imports - commodities: foodstuffs, petroleum and petroleum products,
chemicals, transport equipment, iron and steel, machinery, textile
yarn and fabrics, grains

Imports - partners: EU 60% (Germany 15%, Sweden 11%, UK 7%), US 8%,
Russia 7%, Japan 6% (1999)

Debt - external: $30 billion (December 1993)

Economic aid - donor: ODA, $379 million (1997)

Currency: markka (FIM); euro (EUR)

note:  on 1 January 1999, the EU introduced the euro as a common
currency that is now being used by financial institutions in Finland
at a fixed rate of 5.94573 markkaa per euro and will replace the
local currency for all transactions in 2002

Currency code: FIM; EUR

Exchange rates: euros per US dollar - 1.0659 (January 2001), 1.0854
(2000), 0.9386 (1999); markkaa per US dollar - 5.3441 (1998), 5.1914
(1997), 4.5936 (1996)

Fiscal year: calendar year



Finland    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 2.861 million (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 2,162,574 (1997)

Telephone system: general assessment:  modern system with excellent
service

domestic:  cable, microwave radio relay, and an extensive cellular
net provide domestic needs

international:  1 submarine cable; satellite earth stations - access
to Intelsat transmission service via a Swedish satellite earth
station, 1 Inmarsat (Atlantic and Indian Ocean regions); note -
Finland shares the Inmarsat earth station with the other Nordic
countries (Denmark, Iceland, Norway, and Sweden)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 2, FM 186, shortwave 1 (1998)

Radios: 7.7 million (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 130 (plus 385 repeaters) (1995)

Televisions: 3.2 million (1997)

Internet country code: .fi

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 23 (2000)

Internet users: 2.27 million (2000)



Finland    Transportation

Railways: total:  5,865 km

broad gauge:  5,865 km 1.524-m gauge (2,192 km electrified; 480 km
double or multiple track) (1998)

Highways: total:  77,796 km

paved:  49,789 km (including 444 km of expressways)

unpaved:  28,042 km (1999)

Waterways: 6,675 km

note:  includes Saimaa Canal; 3,700 km suitable for large ships

Pipelines: natural gas 580 km

Ports and harbors: Hamina, Helsinki, Kokkola, Kotka, Loviisa, Oulu,
Pori, Rauma, Turku, Uusikaupunki, Varkaus

Merchant marine: total:  98 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
1,172,808 GRT/1,138,175 DWT

ships by type:  bulk 9, cargo 23, chemical tanker 5, passenger 1,
petroleum tanker 11, railcar carrier 1, roll on/roll off 37,
short-sea passenger 11 (2000 est.)

Airports: 159 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  69

over 3,047 m:  3

2,438 to 3,047 m:  26

1,524 to 2,437 m:  10

914 to 1,523 m:  20

under 914 m:  10 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  90

914 to 1,523 m:  6

under 914 m:  84 (2000 est.)



Finland    Military

Military branches: Army, Navy, Air Force, Frontier Guard (includes
Sea Guard)

Military manpower - military age: 17 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  1,251,700 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
1,033,188 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  33,883
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $1.8 billion (FY98)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 2% (FY98)



Finland    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

======================================================================

@France




France    Introduction

Background: Although ultimately a victor in World Wars I and II,
France suffered extensive losses in its empire, wealth, manpower,
and rank as a dominant nation-state. Nevertheless, France today is
one of the most modern countries in the world and is a leader among
European nations. Since 1958, it has constructed a presidential
democracy resistant to the instabilities experienced in earlier
parliamentary democracies. In recent years, its reconciliation and
cooperation with Germany have proved central to the economic
integration of Europe, including the advent of the euro in January
1999. Presently, France is at the forefront of European states
seeking to exploit the momentum of monetary union to advance the
creation of a more unified and capable European defense and security
apparatus.



France    Geography

Location: Western Europe, bordering the Bay of Biscay and English
Channel, between Belgium and Spain, southeast of the UK; bordering
the Mediterranean Sea, between Italy and Spain

Geographic coordinates: 46 00 N, 2 00 E

Map references: Europe

Area: total:  547,030 sq km

land:  545,630 sq km

water:  1,400 sq km

note:  includes only metropolitan France, but excludes the overseas
administrative divisions

Area - comparative: slightly less than twice the size of Colorado

Land boundaries: total:  2,889 km

border countries:  Andorra 56.6 km, Belgium 620 km, Germany 451 km,
Italy 488 km, Luxembourg 73 km, Monaco 4.4 km, Spain 623 km,
Switzerland 573 km

Coastline: 3,427 km

Maritime claims: contiguous zone:  24 NM

continental shelf:  200-m depth or to the depth of exploitation

exclusive economic zone:  200 NM (does not apply to the
Mediterranean)

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: generally cool winters and mild summers, but mild winters
and hot summers along the Mediterranean; occasional strong, cold,
dry, north-to-northwesterly wind known as mistral

Terrain: mostly flat plains or gently rolling hills in north and
west; remainder is mountainous, especially Pyrenees in south, Alps
in east

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Rhone River delta -2 m

highest point:  Mont Blanc 4,807 m

Natural resources: coal, iron ore, bauxite, zinc, potash, timber,
fish

Land use: arable land:  33%

permanent crops:  2%

permanent pastures:  20%

forests and woodland:  27%

other:  18% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 16,300 sq km (1995 est.)

Natural hazards: flooding; avalanches

Environment - current issues: some forest damage from acid rain
(major forest damage occurred as a result of severe December 1999
windstorm); air pollution from industrial and vehicle emissions;
water pollution from urban wastes, agricultural runoff

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Air Pollution,
Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air Pollution-Sulphur 85, Air
Pollution-Sulphur 94, Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds,
Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic-Marine Living Resources,
Antarctic Seals, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change,
Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the
Sea, Marine Dumping, Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer
Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94,
Wetlands, Whaling

signed, but not ratified:  Air Pollution-Persistent Organic
Pollutants, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol

Geography - note: largest West European nation



France    People

Population: 59,551,227 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  18.68% (male 5,698,604; female 5,426,838)

15-64 years:  65.19% (male 19,424,018; female 19,399,588)

65 years and over:  16.13% (male 3,900,579; female 5,701,600) (2001
est.)

Population growth rate: 0.37% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 12.1 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 9.09 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 0.64 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.06 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.68 male(s)/female

total population:  0.95 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 4.46 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  78.9 years

male:  75.01 years

female:  83.01 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 1.75 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 0.44% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 130,000 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: 2,000 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Frenchman(men), Frenchwoman(women)

adjective:  French

Ethnic groups: Celtic and Latin with Teutonic, Slavic, North
African, Indochinese, Basque minorities

Religions: Roman Catholic 90%, Protestant 2%, Jewish 1%, Muslim
(North African workers) 3%, unaffiliated 4%

Languages: French 100%, rapidly declining regional dialects and
languages (Provencal, Breton, Alsatian, Corsican, Catalan, Basque,
Flemish)

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  99%

male:  99%

female:  99% (1980 est.)



France    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  French Republic

conventional short form:  France

local long form:  Republique Francaise

local short form:  France

Government type: republic

Capital: Paris

Administrative divisions: 22 regions (regions, singular - region);
Alsace, Aquitaine, Auvergne, Basse-Normandie, Bourgogne, Bretagne,
Centre, Champagne-Ardenne, Corse, Franche-Comte, Haute-Normandie,
Ile-de-France, Languedoc-Roussillon, Limousin, Lorraine,
Midi-Pyrenees, Nord-Pas-de-Calais, Pays de la Loire, Picardie,
Poitou-Charentes, Provence-Alpes-Cote d'Azur, Rhone-Alpes

note:  metropolitan France is divided into 22 regions (including the
"territorial collectivity" of Corse or Corsica) and is subdivided
into 96 departments; see separate entries for the overseas
departments (French Guiana, Guadeloupe, Martinique, Reunion) and the
overseas territorial collectivities (Mayotte, Saint Pierre and
Miquelon)

Dependent areas: Bassas da India, Clipperton Island, Europa Island,
French Polynesia, French Southern and Antarctic Lands, Glorioso
Islands, Juan de Nova Island, New Caledonia, Tromelin Island, Wallis
and Futuna

note:  the US does not recognize claims to Antarctica

Independence: 486 (unified by Clovis)

National holiday: Bastille Day, 14 July (1789)

Constitution: 28 September 1958, amended concerning election of
president in 1962, amended to comply with provisions of EC
Maastricht Treaty in 1992; amended to tighten immigration laws 1993

Legal system: civil law system with indigenous concepts; review of
administrative but not legislative acts

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Jacques CHIRAC (since
17 May 1995)

head of government:  Prime Minister Lionel JOSPIN (since 3 June 1997)

cabinet:  Council of Ministers appointed by the president on the
suggestion of the prime minister

elections:  president elected by popular vote for a seven-year term;
election last held 23 April and 7 May 1995 (next to be held by May
2002); prime minister nominated by the National Assembly majority
and appointed by the president

election results:  Jacques CHIRAC elected president; percent of
vote, second ballot - Jacques CHIRAC (RPR) 52.64%, Lionel JOSPIN
(PS) 47.36%

Legislative branch: bicameral Parliament or Parlement consists of
the Senate or Senat (321 seats - 296 for metropolitan France, 13 for
overseas departments and territories, and 12 for French nationals
abroad; members are indirectly elected by an electoral college to
serve nine-year terms; elected by thirds every three years) and the
National Assembly or Assemblee Nationale (577 seats; members are
elected by popular vote under a single-member majoritarian system to
serve five-year terms)

elections:  Senate - last held 27 September 1998 (next to be held
September 2001); National Assembly - last held 25 May-1 June 1997
(next to be held NA May 2002)

election results:  Senate - percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by
party - RPR 99, UDC 52, DL 47, PS 78, PCF 16, other 29; National
Assembly - percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party - PS 245,
RPR 140, UDF 109, PCF 37, PRS 13, MEI 8, MDC 7, LDI-MPF 1, FN 1,
various left 9, various right 7

Judicial branch: Supreme Court of Appeals or Cour de Cassation
(judges are appointed by the president from nominations of the High
Council of the Judiciary); Constitutional Council or Conseil
Constitutionnel (three members appointed by the president, three
appointed by the president of the National Assembly, and three
appointed by the president of the Senate); Council of State or
Conseil d'Etat

Political parties and leaders: Citizens Movement or MdC [Jean Pierre
CHEVENEMENT]; French Communist Party or PCF [Robert HUE];
Independent Ecological Movement or MEI [Antoine WAECHTER]; Left
Radical Party or PRG (previously Radical Socialist Party or PRS and
the Left Radical Movement or MRG) [Jean-Michel BAYLET]; Liberal
Democracy or DL (originally Republican Party or PR) [Alain MADELIN];
Movement for France or MPF [Philippe DEVILLIERS]; National Front or
FN [Jean-Marie LE PEN]; Rally for the Republic or RPR [Michelle
ALLIOT-MARIE]; Socialist Party or PS [Francois HOLLANDE]; Union for
French Democracy or UDF (coalition of UDC, FD, RRRS, PPDF) [Francois
BAYROU]; Union of the Center or UDC [leader NA]

Political pressure groups and leaders: Communist-controlled labor
union (Confederation Generale du Travail) or CGT, nearly 2.4 million
members (claimed); independent labor union or Force Ouvriere, 1
million members (est.); independent white-collar union or
Confederation Generale des Cadres, 340,000 members (claimed);
National Council of French Employers (Conseil National du Patronat
Francais) or CNPF or Patronat; Socialist-leaning labor union
(Confederation Francaise Democratique du Travail) or CFDT, about
800,000 members (est.)

International organization participation: ACCT, AfDB, AsDB,
Australia Group, BDEAC, BIS, CCC, CDB (non-regional), CE, CERN,
EAPC, EBRD, ECA (associate), ECE, ECLAC, EIB, EMU, ESA, ESCAP, EU,
FAO, FZ, G- 5, G- 7, G-10, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, ICRM,
IDA, IEA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, InOC,
Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO, ITU, MINURSO, MIPONUH, MONUC, NAM
(guest), NATO, NEA, NSG, OAS (observer), OECD, OPCW, OSCE, PCA, SPC,
UN, UN Security Council, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNIFIL,
UNIKOM, UNITAR, UNMEE, UNMIBH, UNMIK, UNOMIG, UNRWA, UNTAET, UNTSO,
UNU, UPU, WADB (nonregional), WCL, WEU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO,
WTrO, ZC

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Francois V. BUJON DE L'ESTANG

chancery:  4101 Reservoir Road NW, Washington, DC 20007

telephone:  [1] (202) 944-6000

FAX:  [1] (202) 944-6166

consulate(s) general:  Atlanta, Boston, Chicago, Houston, Los
Angeles, Miami, New Orleans, New York, and San Francisco

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:
Ambassador-designate Howard H. LEACH; Charge d'Affaires Douglas L.
McELHANEY

embassy:  2 Avenue Gabriel, 75382 Paris Cedex 08

mailing address:  PSC 116, APO AE 09777

telephone:  [33] (1) 43-12-22-22

FAX:  [33] (1) 42 66 97 83

consulate(s) general:  Marseille, Strasbourg

Flag description: three equal vertical bands of blue (hoist side),
white, and red; known as the French Tricouleur (Tricolor); the
design and/or colors are similar to a number of other flags,
including those of Belgium, Chad, Ireland, Cote d'Ivoire,
Luxembourg, and Netherlands; the official flag for all French
dependent areas



France    Economy

Economy - overview: France is in the midst of transition, from an
economy that featured extensive government ownership and
intervention to one that relies more on market mechanisms. The
government remains dominant in some sectors, particularly power,
public transport, and defense industries, but it has been relaxing
its control since the mid-1980s. The Socialist-led government has
sold off part of its holdings in France Telecom, Air France, Thales,
Thomson Multimedia, and the European Aerospace and Defense Company
(EADS). The telecommunications sector is gradually being opened to
competition. France's leaders remain committed to a capitalism in
which they maintain social equity by means of laws, tax policies,
and social spending that reduce income disparity and the impact of
free markets on public health and welfare. The government has done
little to cut generous unemployment and retirement benefits which
impose a heavy tax burden and discourage hiring. It has also shied
from measures that would dramatically increase the use of stock
options and retirement investment plans; such measures would boost
the stock market and fast-growing IT firms as well as ease the
burden on the pension system, but would disproportionately benefit
the rich. In addition to the tax burden, the reduction of the work
week to 35-hours has drawn criticism for lowering the
competitiveness of French companies.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $1.448 trillion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 3.1% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $24,400 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  3.3%

industry:  26.1%

services:  70.6% (1999)

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:
2.8%

highest 10%:  25.1% (1995)

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 1.7% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 25 million (2000)

Labor force - by occupation: services 71%, industry 25%, agriculture
4% (1997)

Unemployment rate: 9.7% (2000 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $210 billion

expenditures:  $240 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
(2000 est.)

Industries: machinery, chemicals, automobiles, metallurgy, aircraft,
electronics; textiles, food processing; tourism

Industrial production growth rate: 3.5% (2000 est.)

Electricity - production: 497.26 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  9.69%

hydro:  14.39%

nuclear:  75.43%

other:  0.49% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 398.752 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 68.7 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 5 billion kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: wheat, cereals, sugar beets, potatoes, wine
grapes; beef, dairy products; fish

Exports: $325 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Exports - commodities: machinery and transportation equipment,
aircraft, plastics, chemicals, pharmaceutical products, iron and
steel, beverages

Exports - partners: EU 63% (Germany 16%, UK 10%, Spain 9%, Italy 9%,
Belgium-Luxembourg 8%), US 8% (1999)

Imports: $320 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Imports - commodities: machinery and equipment, vehicles, crude oil,
aircraft, plastics, chemicals

Imports - partners: EU 62% (Germany 16%, Belgium-Luxembourg 11%,
Italy 9%, UK 8%), US 7% (2000 est.)

Debt - external: $106 billion (1998)

Economic aid - donor: ODA, $6.3 billion (1997)

Currency: French franc (FRF); euro (EUR)

note:  on 1 January 1999, the EU introduced the euro as a common
currency that is now being used by financial institutions in France
at a fixed rate of 6.55957 French francs per euro and will replace
the local currency for all transactions in 2002

Currency code: FRF; EUR

Exchange rates: euros per US dollar - 1.0659 (January 2001), 1.0854
(2000), 0.9386 (1999); French francs per US dollar - 5.65 (January
1999), 5.8995 (1998), 5.8367 (1997), 5.1155 (1996)

Fiscal year: calendar year



France    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 34.86 million (yearend 1998)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 11.078 million (yearend 1998)

Telephone system: general assessment:  highly developed

domestic:  extensive cable and microwave radio relay; extensive
introduction of fiber-optic cable; domestic satellite system

international:  satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat (with total of
5 antennas - 2 for Indian Ocean and 3 for Atlantic Ocean), NA
Eutelsat, 1 Inmarsat (Atlantic Ocean region); HF radiotelephone
communications with more than 20 countries

Radio broadcast stations: AM 41, FM about 3,500 (this figure is an
approximation and includes many repeaters), shortwave 2 (1998)

Radios: 55.3 million (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 584 (plus 9,676 repeaters) (1995)

Televisions: 34.8 million (1997)

Internet country code: .fr

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 62 (2000)

Internet users: 9 million (2000)



France    Transportation

Railways: total:  31,939 km (31,939 km are operated by French
National Railways (SNCF); 14,176 km of SNCF routes are electrified
and 12,132 km are double- or multiple-tracked)

standard gauge:  31,840 km 1.435-m gauge

narrow gauge:  99 km 1.000-m gauge (1998)

Highways: total:  892,900 km

paved:  892,900 km (including 9,900 km of expressways)

unpaved:  0 km (1999)

Waterways: 14,932 km (6,969 km heavily traveled)

Pipelines: crude oil 3,059 km; petroleum products 4,487 km; natural
gas 24,746 km

Ports and harbors: Bordeaux, Boulogne, Cherbourg, Dijon, Dunkerque,
La Pallice, Le Havre, Lyon, Marseille, Mullhouse, Nantes, Paris,
Rouen, Saint Nazaire, Saint Malo, Strasbourg

Merchant marine: total:  46 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
942,333 GRT/1,304,754 DWT

ships by type:  bulk 3, cargo 4, chemical tanker 6, combination bulk
1, container 1, liquefied gas 3, multi-functional large-load carrier
1, passenger 3, petroleum tanker 17, roll on/roll off 4, short-sea
passenger 3

note:  includes some foreign-owned ships registered here as a flag
of convenience: Germany 1 (2000 est.)

Airports: 475 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  268

over 3,047 m:  14

2,438 to 3,047 m:  30

1,524 to 2,437 m:  94

914 to 1,523 m:  72

under 914 m:  58 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  207

1,524 to 2,437 m:  4

914 to 1,523 m:  73

under 914 m:  130 (2000 est.)

Heliports: 3 (2000 est.)



France    Military

Military branches: Army (includes Marines), Navy (includes Naval
Air), Air Force (includes Air Defense), National Gendarmerie

Military manpower - military age: 18 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  14,573,199 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
12,127,793 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  390,064
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $39.831 billion (FY97)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 2.5% (FY97)



France    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: Madagascar claims Bassas da India, Europa
Island, Glorioso Islands, Juan de Nova Island, and Tromelin Island;
Comoros claims Mayotte; Mauritius claims Tromelin Island;
territorial dispute between Suriname and French Guiana; territorial
claim in Antarctica (Adelie Land); Matthew and Hunter Islands east
of New Caledonia claimed by France and Vanuatu

Illicit drugs: transshipment point for and consumer of South
American cocaine, Southwest Asian heroin, and European synthetics

======================================================================

@French Guiana





French Guiana    Introduction

Background: First settled by the French in 1604, French Guiana was
the site of notorious penal settlements until 1951. The European
Space Agency launches its communication satellites from Kourou.



French Guiana    Geography

Location: Northern South America, bordering the North Atlantic
Ocean, between Brazil and Suriname

Geographic coordinates: 4 00 N, 53 00 W

Map references: South America

Area: total:  91,000 sq km

land:  89,150 sq km

water:  1,850 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly smaller than Indiana

Land boundaries: total:  1,183 km

border countries:  Brazil 673 km, Suriname 510 km

Coastline: 378 km

Maritime claims: exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: tropical; hot, humid; little seasonal temperature variation

Terrain: low-lying coastal plains rising to hills and small mountains

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Atlantic Ocean 0 m

highest point:  Bellevue de l'Inini 851 m

Natural resources: bauxite, timber, gold (widely scattered),
cinnabar, kaolin, fish

Land use: arable land:  0%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  0%

forests and woodland:  90%

other:  10% (1996 est.)

Irrigated land: 20 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: high frequency of heavy showers and severe
thunderstorms; flooding

Environment - current issues: NA

Geography - note: mostly an unsettled wilderness



French Guiana    People

Population: 177,562 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  30.47% (male 27,669; female 26,428)

15-64 years:  64.05% (male 61,457; female 52,266)

65 years and over:  5.48% (male 4,937; female 4,805) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 2.74% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 22.02 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 4.77 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 10.14 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1.18 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  1.03 male(s)/female

total population:  1.13 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 13.61 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  76.3 years

male:  72.97 years

female:  79.79 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 3.17 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: NA%

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: NA

HIV/AIDS - deaths: NA

Nationality: noun:  French Guianese (singular and plural)

adjective:  French Guianese

Ethnic groups: black or mulatto 66%, white 12%, East Indian,
Chinese, Amerindian 12%, other 10%

Religions: Roman Catholic

Languages: French

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  83%

male:  84%

female:  82% (1982 est.)



French Guiana    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Department of Guiana

conventional short form:  French Guiana

local long form:  none

local short form:  Guyane

Dependency status: overseas department of France

Government type: NA

Capital: Cayenne

Administrative divisions: none (overseas department of France)

Independence: none (overseas department of France)

National holiday: Bastille Day, 14 July (1789)

Constitution: 28 September 1958 (French Constitution)

Legal system: French legal system

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Jacques CHIRAC of
France (since 17 May 1995), represented by Prefect Dominique VIAN
(since NA January 1997)

head of government:  President of the General Council Andre LECANTE
(since NA March 1998); President of the Regional Council Antoine
KARAM (since 22 March 1992)

cabinet:  NA

elections:  French president elected by popular vote for a
seven-year term; prefect appointed by the French president on the
advice of the French Ministry of Interior; presidents of the General
and Regional Councils are appointed by the members of those councils

Legislative branch: unicameral General Council or Conseil General
(19 seats; members are elected by popular vote to serve six-year
terms) and a unicameral Regional Council or Conseil Regional (31
seats; members are elected by popular vote to serve six-year terms)

elections:  General Council - last held NA March 2000 (next to be
held NA 2006); Regional Council - last held 15 March 1998 (next to
be held NA 2004)

election results:  General Council - percent of vote by party - NA%;
seats by party - NA; Regional Council - percent of vote by party -
PS 28.28%, various left parties 22.56%, RPR 15.91%, independents
8.6%, Walwari Committee 6%; seats by party - PS 11, various left
parties 9, RPR 6, independents 3, Walwari Committee 2

note:  one seat was elected to the French Senate on 27 September
1998 (next to be held NA September 2007); results - percent of vote
by party - NA; seats by party - NA; 2 seats were elected to the
French National Assembly on 25 May - 1 June 1997 (next to be held NA
2002); results - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party - RPR
1, PSG 1

Judicial branch: Court of Appeals or Cour d'Appel (highest local
court based in Martinique with jurisdiction over Martinique,
Guadeloupe, and French Guiana)

Political parties and leaders: Guianese Socialist Party or PSG
[Antoine KARAM]; Guyana Democratic Forces or FDG [Georges OTHILY];
Rally for the Republic or RPR [Roland HO-WEN-SZE]; Socialist Party
or PS [Pierre RIBARDIERE] (may be a subset of PSG); Walwari
Committee [Christine TAUBIRA-DELANON]

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: FZ, WCL, WFTU

Diplomatic representation in the US: none (overseas department of
France)

Diplomatic representation from the US: none (overseas department of
France)

Flag description: the flag of France is used



French Guiana    Economy

Economy - overview: The economy is tied closely to that of France
through subsidies and imports. Besides the French space center at
Kourou, fishing and forestry are the most important economic
activities. The large reserves of tropical hardwoods, not fully
exploited, support an expanding sawmill industry which provides sawn
logs for export. Cultivation of crops is limited to the coastal
area, where the population is largely concentrated; rice and manioc
are the major crops. French Guiana is heavily dependent on imports
of food and energy. Unemployment is a serious problem, particularly
among younger workers.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $1 billion (1998 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: NA%

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $6,000 (1998 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  NA%

industry:  NA%

services:  NA%

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 2.5% (1992)

Labor force: 58,800 (1997)

Labor force - by occupation: services, government, and commerce
60.6%, industry 21.2%, agriculture 18.2% (1980)

Unemployment rate: 21.4% (1998)

Budget: revenues:  $225 million

expenditures:  $390 million, including capital expenditures of $105
million (1996)

Industries: construction, shrimp processing, forestry products, rum,
gold mining

Industrial production growth rate: NA%

Electricity - production: 440 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  100%

hydro:  0%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 409.2 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: rice, manioc (tapioca), sugar, cocoa,
vegetables, bananas; cattle, pigs, poultry

Exports: $155 million (f.o.b., 1997)

Exports - commodities: shrimp, timber, gold, rum, rosewood essence,
clothing

Exports - partners: France 62%, Switzerland 7%, US 2% (1997)

Imports: $625 million (c.i.f., 1997)

Imports - commodities: food (grains, processed meat), machinery and
transport equipment, fuels and chemicals

Imports - partners: France 52%, US 14%, Trinidad and Tobago 6% (1997)

Debt - external: $1.2 billion (1988)

Economic aid - recipient: $NA

Currency: French franc (FRF); euro (EUR)

Currency code: FRF; EUR

Exchange rates: Euros per US dollar - 1.0659 (January 2001), 1.0854
(2000), 0.9386 (1999); French francs per US dollar - 5.8995 (1998),
5.8367 (1997), 5.1155 (1996)

Fiscal year: calendar year



French Guiana    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 47,000 (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: NA

Telephone system: general assessment:  NA

domestic:  fair open wire and microwave radio relay system

international:  satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 2, FM 14 (including 6 repeaters),
shortwave 6 (including 5 repeaters) (1998)

Radios: 104,000 (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 3 (plus eight low-power repeaters)
(1997)

Televisions: 30,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .gf

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 2 (2000)

Internet users: 2,000 (2000)



French Guiana    Transportation

Railways: 0 km (1995)

Highways: total:  1,817 km

paved:  817 km

unpaved:  1,000 km (1998)

Waterways: 3,300 km navigable by native craft

note:  460 km navigable by small oceangoing vessels and coastal and
river steamers

Ports and harbors: Cayenne, Degrad des Cannes, Saint-Laurent du
Maroni

Merchant marine: none (2000 est.)

Airports: 11 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  4

over 3,047 m:  1

914 to 1,523 m:  2

under 914 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  7

914 to 1,523 m:  2

under 914 m:  5 (2000 est.)



French Guiana    Military

Military branches: French Forces, Gendarmerie

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  49,495 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
32,052 (2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $NA

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: NA%

Military - note: defense is the responsibility of France



French Guiana    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: Suriname claims area between Riviere
Litani and Riviere Marouini (both headwaters of the Lawa)

Illicit drugs: small amount of marijuana grown for local
consumption; minor transshipment point to Europe

======================================================================

@French Polynesia





French Polynesia    Introduction

Background: The French annexed various Polynesian island groups
during the 19th century. In September 1995, France stirred up
widespread protests by resuming nuclear testing on the Mururoa atoll
after a three-year moratorium. The tests were suspended in January
1996.



French Polynesia    Geography

Location: Oceania, archipelago in the South Pacific Ocean, about
one-half of the way from South America to Australia

Geographic coordinates: 15 00 S, 140 00 W

Map references: Oceania

Area: total:  4,167 sq km (118 islands and atolls)

land:  3,660 sq km

water:  507 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly less than one-third the size of
Connecticut

Land boundaries: 0 km

Coastline: 2,525 km

Maritime claims: exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: tropical, but moderate

Terrain: mixture of rugged high islands and low islands with reefs

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Pacific Ocean 0 m

highest point:  Mont Orohena 2,241 m

Natural resources: timber, fish, cobalt, hydropower

Land use: arable land:  1%

permanent crops:  6%

permanent pastures:  5%

forests and woodland:  31%

other:  57% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: NA sq km

Natural hazards: occasional cyclonic storms in January

Environment - current issues: NA

Geography - note: includes five archipelagoes; Makatea in French
Polynesia is one of the three great phosphate rock islands in the
Pacific Ocean - the others are Banaba (Ocean Island) in Kiribati and
Nauru



French Polynesia    People

Population: 253,506 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  29.74% (male 38,473; female 36,925)

15-64 years:  65.17% (male 86,128; female 79,076)

65 years and over:  5.09% (male 6,481; female 6,423) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 1.72% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 18.6 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 4.45 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 3.09 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1.09 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  1.01 male(s)/female

total population:  1.07 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 9.12 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  75.01 years

male:  72.67 years

female:  77.46 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 2.23 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: NA%

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: NA

HIV/AIDS - deaths: NA

Nationality: noun:  French Polynesian(s)

adjective:  French Polynesian

Ethnic groups: Polynesian 78%, Chinese 12%, local French 6%,
metropolitan French 4%

Religions: Protestant 54%, Roman Catholic 30%, other 16%

Languages: French (official), Tahitian (official)

Literacy: definition:  age 14 and over can read and write

total population:  98%

male:  98%

female:  98% (1977 est.)



French Polynesia    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Territory of French Polynesia

conventional short form:  French Polynesia

local long form:  Territoire de la Polynesie Francaise

local short form:  Polynesie Francaise

former:  French Colony of Oceania

Dependency status: overseas territory of France since 1946

Government type: NA

Capital: Papeete

Administrative divisions: none (overseas territory of France); there
are no first-order administrative divisions as defined by the US
Government, but there are 5 archipelagic divisions named Archipel
des Marquises, Archipel des Tuamotu, Archipel des Tubuai, Iles du
Vent, and Iles Sous-le-Vent

note:  Clipperton Island is administered by France from French
Polynesia

Independence: none (overseas territory of France)

National holiday: Bastille Day, 14 July (1789)

Constitution: 28 September 1958 (French Constitution)

Legal system: based on French system

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Jacques CHIRAC of
France (since 17 May 1995), represented by High Commissioner of the
Republic Paul RONCIERE (since NA 1994)

head of government:  President of the Territorial Government of
French Polynesia Gaston FLOSSE (since 4 April 1991); President of
the Territorial Assembly Justin ARAPARI (since 13 May 1996)

cabinet:  Council of Ministers; president submits a list of members
of the Territorial Assembly for approval by them to serve as
ministers

elections:  French president elected by popular vote for a
seven-year term; high commissioner appointed by the French president
on the advice of the French Ministry of Interior; president of the
Territorial Government and the president of the Territorial Assembly
are elected by the members of the assembly

Legislative branch: unicameral Territorial Assembly or Assemblee
Territoriale (41 seats; members are elected by popular vote to serve
five-year terms)

elections:  last held 12 May 1996 (next to be held NA 2001)

election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
People's Rally for the Republic (Gaullist) 22, Independent Front for
the Liberation of Polynesia 10, New Fatherland Party 5, other 4

note:  one seat was elected to the French Senate on 24 September
1989 (next to be held NA September 1998); results - percent of vote
by party - NA; seats by party - UC 1; two seats were elected to the
French National Assembly on 25 May - 1 June 1997 (next to be held NA
2002); results - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
People's Rally for the Republic (Gaullist) 2

Judicial branch: Court of Appeal or Cour d'Appel; Court of the First
Instance or Tribunal de Premiere Instance; Court of Administrative
Law or Tribunal Administratif

Political parties and leaders: Centrist Union or UC [leader NA];
Independent Front for the Liberation of Polynesia (Tavini
Huiraatira) [Oscar TEMARU]; New Fatherland Party (Ai'a Api) [Emile
VERNAUDON]; People's Rally for the Republic (Tahoeraa Huiraatira)
[Gaston FLOSSE]

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: ESCAP (associate), FZ,
ICFTU, SPC, WMO

Diplomatic representation in the US: none (overseas territory of
France)

Diplomatic representation from the US: none (overseas territory of
France)

Flag description: two narrow red horizontal bands encase a wide
white band; centered on the white band is a disk with blue and white
wave pattern on the lower half and gold and white ray pattern on the
upper half; a stylized red, blue and white ship rides on the wave
pattern; the French flag is used for official occasions



French Polynesia    Economy

Economy - overview: Since 1962, when France stationed military
personnel in the region, French Polynesia has changed from a
subsistence economy to one in which a high proportion of the work
force is either employed by the military or supports the tourist
industry. Tourism accounts for about one-fourth of GDP and is a
primary source of hard currency earnings. The small manufacturing
sector primarily processes agricultural products. The territory
benefited from a five-year (1994-98) development agreement with
France aimed principally at creating new jobs.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $2.6 billion (1997 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 2.5% (1997 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $10,800 (1997 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  4%

industry:  18%

services:  78% (1997)

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 1.5% (1994)

Labor force: 70,000 (1996)

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture 13%, industry 19%, services
68% (1997)

Unemployment rate: 15% (1992 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $1 billion

expenditures:  $900 million, including capital expenditures of $185
million (1996)

Industries: tourism, pearls, agricultural processing, handicrafts

Industrial production growth rate: NA%

Electricity - production: 430 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  51.16%

hydro:  48.84%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 399.9 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: coconuts, vanilla, vegetables, fruits;
poultry, beef, dairy products

Exports: $205 million (f.o.b., 1999)

Exports - commodities: cultured pearls 50%, coconut products,
mother-of-pearl, vanilla, shark meat (1997)

Exports - partners: Japan 62%, US 21% (1999)

Imports: $749 million (f.o.b., 1999)

Imports - commodities: fuels, foodstuffs, equipment

Imports - partners: France 53%, US 13%, Australia 10% (1999)

Debt - external: $NA

Economic aid - recipient: $367 million (1997)

Currency: Comptoirs Francais du Pacifique franc (XPF)

Currency code: XPF

Exchange rates: Comptoirs Francais du Pacifique francs (XPF) per US
dollar - 127.11 (January 2001), 129.44 (2000), 111.93 (1999), 107.25
(1998), 106.11 (1997), 93.00 (1996); note - pegged at the rate of
119.25 XPF to the euro

Fiscal year: calendar year



French Polynesia    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 52,000 (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 5,427 (1997)

Telephone system: general assessment:  NA

domestic:  NA

international:  satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (Pacific Ocean)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 2, FM 14, shortwave 2 (1998)

Radios: 128,000 (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 7 (plus 17 low-power repeaters) (1997)

Televisions: 40,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .pf

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 2 (2000)

Internet users: 5,000 (2000)



French Polynesia    Transportation

Railways: 0 km

Highways: total:  792 km

paved:  264 km

unpaved:  528 km (2000)

Waterways: none

Ports and harbors: Mataura, Papeete, Rikitea, Uturoa

Merchant marine: total:  4 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 5,240
GRT/7,765 DWT

ships by type:  cargo 1, passenger/cargo 2, refrigerated cargo 1
(2000 est.)

Airports: 45 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  32

over 3,047 m:  2

1,524 to 2,437 m:  5

914 to 1,523 m:  19

under 914 m:  6 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  13

914 to 1,523 m:  3

under 914 m:  10 (2000 est.)



French Polynesia    Military

Military branches: French Forces (includes Army, Navy, Air Force),
Gendarmerie

Military - note: defense is the responsibility of France



French Polynesia    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

======================================================================

@French Southern and Antarctic Lands





French Southern and Antarctic Lands    Introduction

Background: The Southern Lands consist of two archipelagos, Iles
Crozet and Iles Kerguelen, and two volcanic islands, Ile Amsterdam
and Ile Saint-Paul. They contain no permanent inhabitants and are
visited only by researchers studying the native fauna. The Antarctic
portion consists of "Adelie Land," a thin slice of the Antarctic
continent discovered and claimed by the French in 1840.



French Southern and Antarctic Lands    Geography

Location: south of Africa, islands in the southern Indian Ocean,
about equidistant between Africa, Antarctica, and Australia; note -
French Southern and Antarctic Lands includes Ile Amsterdam, Ile
Saint-Paul, Iles Crozet, and Iles Kerguelen in the southern Indian
Ocean, along with the French-claimed sector of Antarctica, "Adelie
Land"; the US does not recognize the French claim to "Adelie Land"

Geographic coordinates: 43 00 S, 67 00 E

Map references: Antarctic Region

Area: total:  7,781 sq km

land:  7,781 sq km

water:  0 sq km

note:  includes Ile Amsterdam, Ile Saint-Paul, Iles Crozet and Iles
Kerguelen; excludes "Adelie Land" claim of about 500,000 sq km in
Antarctica that is not recognized by the US

Area - comparative: slightly less than 1.3 times the size of Delaware

Land boundaries: 0 km

Coastline: 1,232 km

Maritime claims: exclusive economic zone:  200 NM from Iles
Kerguelen only

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: antarctic

Terrain: volcanic

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Indian Ocean 0 m

highest point:  Mont Ross on Iles Kerguelen 1,850 m

Natural resources: fish, crayfish

Land use: arable land:  0%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  0%

forests and woodland:  0%

other:  100%

Irrigated land: 0 sq km (1993)

Natural hazards: Ile Amsterdam and Ile Saint-Paul are extinct
volcanoes

Environment - current issues: NA

Geography - note: islands component is widely scattered across
remote locations in the southern Indian Ocean



French Southern and Antarctic Lands    People

Population: no indigenous inhabitants (July 2001 est.)

note:  in 1997, there were about 100 researchers whose numbers vary
from winter (July) to summer (January)



French Southern and Antarctic Lands    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Territory of the French
Southern and Antarctic Lands

conventional short form:  French Southern and Antarctic Lands

local long form:  Territoire des Terres Australes et Antarctiques
Francaises

local short form:  Terres Australes et Antarctiques Francaises

Dependency status: overseas territory of France since 1955;
administered from Paris by High Commissioner of the Republic
Brigitte GIRARDIN (since 25 March 1998), assisted by Secretary
General Jean-Yves HERMOSO (since NA)

Administrative divisions: none (overseas territory of France); there
are no first-order administrative divisions as defined by the US
Government, but there are 3 districts named Ile Crozet, Iles
Kerguelen, and Iles Saint-Paul et Amsterdam; excludes "Adelie Land"
claim in Antarctica that is not recognized by the US

Legal system: the laws of France, where applicable, apply

Diplomatic representation in the US: none (overseas territory of
France)

Diplomatic representation from the US: none (overseas territory of
France)

Flag description: the flag of France is used



French Southern and Antarctic Lands    Economy

Economy - overview: Economic activity is limited to servicing
meteorological and geophysical research stations and French and
other fishing fleets. The fish catches landed on Iles Kerguelen by
foreign ships are exported to France and Reunion.



French Southern and Antarctic Lands    Communications

Internet country code: .tf



French Southern and Antarctic Lands    Transportation

Waterways: none

Ports and harbors: none; offshore anchorage only

Merchant marine: total:  74 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
3,024,194 GRT/5,255,703 DWT

ships by type:  bulk 7, cargo 5, chemical tanker 9, container 11,
liquefied gas 7, petroleum tanker 23, roll on/roll off 12

note:  includes some foreign-owned ships registered here as a flag
of convenience: France 1 (2000 est.)

Airports: none



French Southern and Antarctic Lands    Military

Military - note: defense is the responsibility of France

French Southern and Antarctic Lands    Transnational Issues Top of
Page

Disputes - international: "Adelie Land" claim in Antarctica is not
recognized by the US

======================================================================

@Gabon




Gabon    Introduction

Background: Ruled by autocratic presidents since independence from
France in 1960, Gabon introduced a multiparty system and a new
constitution in the early 1990s that allowed for a more transparent
electoral process and for reforms of governmental institutions. A
small population, abundant natural resources, and foreign private
investment have helped make Gabon one of the more prosperous black
African countries.



Gabon    Geography

Location: Western Africa, bordering the Atlantic Ocean at the
Equator, between Republic of the Congo and Equatorial Guinea

Geographic coordinates: 1 00 S, 11 45 E

Map references: Africa

Area: total:  267,667 sq km

land:  257,667 sq km

water:  10,000 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly smaller than Colorado

Land boundaries: total:  2,551 km

border countries:  Cameroon 298 km, Republic of the Congo 1,903 km,
Equatorial Guinea 350 km

Coastline: 885 km

Maritime claims: contiguous zone:  24 NM

exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: tropical; always hot, humid

Terrain: narrow coastal plain; hilly interior; savanna in east and
south

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Atlantic Ocean 0 m

highest point:  Mont Iboundji 1,575 m

Natural resources: petroleum, manganese, uranium, gold, timber, iron
ore, hydropower

Land use: arable land:  1%

permanent crops:  1%

permanent pastures:  18%

forests and woodland:  77%

other:  3% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 40 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: NA

Environment - current issues: deforestation; poaching

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species, Law of the Sea,
Marine Dumping, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship
Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands

signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements



Gabon    People

Population: 1,221,175

note:  estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
life expectancy, higher infant mortality and death rates, lower
population and growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  33.29% (male 203,677; female 202,833)

15-64 years:  60.77% (male 373,828; female 368,282)

65 years and over:  5.94% (male 35,867; female 36,688) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 1.02% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 27.42 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 17.22 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.03 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1.02 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.98 male(s)/female

total population:  1.01 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 94.91 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  49.59 years

male:  48.47 years

female:  50.75 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 3.69 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 4.16% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 23,000 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: 2,000 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Gabonese (singular and plural)

adjective:  Gabonese

Ethnic groups: Bantu tribes including four major tribal groupings
(Fang, Eshira, Bapounou, Bateke), other Africans and Europeans
154,000, including 10,700 French and 11,000 persons of dual
nationality

Religions: Christian 55%-75%, animist, Muslim less than 1%

Languages: French (official), Fang, Myene, Bateke, Bapounou/Eschira,
Bandjabi

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  63.2%

male:  73.7%

female:  53.3% (1995 est.)



Gabon    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Gabonese Republic

conventional short form:  Gabon

local long form:  Republique Gabonaise

local short form:  Gabon

Government type: republic; multiparty presidential regime
(opposition parties legalized in 1990)

Capital: Libreville

Administrative divisions: 9 provinces; Estuaire, Haut-Ogooue,
Moyen-Ogooue, Ngounie, Nyanga, Ogooue-Ivindo, Ogooue-Lolo,
Ogooue-Maritime, Woleu-Ntem

Independence: 17 August 1960 (from France)

National holiday: Founding of the Gabonese Democratic Party (PDG),
12 March (1968)

Constitution: adopted 14 March 1991

Legal system: based on French civil law system and customary law;
judicial review of legislative acts in Constitutional Chamber of the
Supreme Court; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Suffrage: 21 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  President El Hadj Omar BONGO
(since 2 December 1967)

head of government:  Prime Minister Jean-Francois NTOUTOUME-EMANE
(since 23 January 1999)

cabinet:  Council of Ministers appointed by the prime minister in
consultation with the president

elections:  president elected by popular vote for a seven-year term;
election last held 6 December 1998 (next to be held NA 2005); prime
minister appointed by the president

election results:  President El Hadj Omar BONGO reelected; percent
of vote - El Hadj Omar BONGO 66.6%, Pierre MAMBOUNDOU 16.5%, Fr.
Paul M'BA-ABESSOLE 13.4%

Legislative branch: bicameral legislature consists of the Senate (91
seats) and the National Assembly or Assemblee Nationale (120 seats);
members are elected by direct popular vote to serve five-year terms

elections:  National Assembly - last held 15 and 29 December 1996
(next to be held NA December 2001); Senate - last held 26 January
and 9 February 1997 (next to be held in January 2002)

election results:  National Assembly - percent of vote by party -
NA%; seats by party - PDG 89, PGP 9, RNB 6, CLR 3, UPG 2, USG 2,
independents 4, others 5; Senate - percent of vote by party - NA%;
seats by party - PDG 53, RNB 20, PGP 4, ADERE 3, RDP 1, CLR 1,
independents 9

Judicial branch: Supreme Court or Cour Supreme consisting of three
chambers - Judicial, Administrative, and Accounts; Constitutional
Court; Courts of Appeal; Court of State Security; County Courts

Political parties and leaders: African Forum for Reconstruction or
FAR [Leon MBOU-YEMBI]; Circle of Liberal Reformers or CLR [General
Jean Boniface ASSELE]; Democratic and Republican Alliance or ADERE
[Divungui-di-Ndinge DIDJOB]; Gabonese Democratic Party or PDG,
former sole party [Simplice Nguedet MANZELA, secretary general];
Gabonese Party for Progress or PGP [Pierre-Louis AGONDJO-OKAWE,
president]; Gabonese People's Union or UPG [Pierre MAMBOUNDOU];
Gabonese Socialist Union or USG [Serge MBA BEKALE]; National Rally
of Woodcutters (Bucherons) or RNB [Fr. Paul M'BA-ABESSOLE]; People's
Unity Party or PUP [Louis Gaston MAYILA]; Rally for Democracy and
Progress or RDP [Pierre EMBONI]; Social Democratic Party or PSD
[Pierre Claver MAGANGA-MOUSSAVOU]

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: ACCT, ACP, AfDB, BDEAC,
CCC, CEEAC, CEMAC, ECA, FAO, FZ, G-24, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO,
ICFTU, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS (associate), ILO, IMF, IMO,
Inmarsat, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, ITU, NAM, OAU, OIC, OPCW, UN,
UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Paul BOUNDOUKOU-LATHA

chancery:  Suite 200, 2034 20th Street NW, Washington, DC 20009

telephone:  [1] (202) 797-1000

FAX:  [1] (202) 332-0668

consulate(s):  New York

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
James V. LEDESMA

embassy:  Boulevard de la Mer, Libreville

mailing address:  B. P. 4000, Libreville

telephone:  [241] 76 20 03 through 76 20 04, 74 34 92

FAX:  [241] 74 55 07

Flag description: three equal horizontal bands of green (top),
yellow, and blue



Gabon    Economy

Economy - overview: Gabon enjoys a per capita income four times that
of most nations of sub-Saharan Africa. This has supported a sharp
decline in extreme poverty; yet because of high income inequality a
large proportion of the population remains poor. Gabon depended on
timber and manganese until oil was discovered offshore in the early
1970s. The oil sector now accounts for 50% of GDP. Gabon continues
to face fluctuating prices for its oil, timber, manganese, and
uranium exports. Despite the abundance of natural wealth, the
economy is hobbled by poor fiscal management. In 1992, the fiscal
deficit widened to 2.4% of GDP, and Gabon failed to settle arrears
on its bilateral debt, leading to a cancellation of rescheduling
agreements with official and private creditors. Devaluation of its
Francophone currency by 50% on 12 January 1994 sparked a one-time
inflationary surge, to 35%; the rate dropped to 6% in 1996. The IMF
provided a one-year standby arrangement in 1994-95, a three-year
Enhanced Financing Facility (EFF) at near commercial rates beginning
in late 1995, and stand-by credit of $119 million in October 2000.
Those agreements mandate progress in privatization and fiscal
discipline. France provided additional financial support in January
1997 after Gabon had met IMF targets for mid-1996. In 1997, an IMF
mission to Gabon criticized the government for overspending on
off-budget items, overborrowing from the central bank, and slipping
on its schedule for privatization and administrative reform. The
rebound of oil prices in 1999-2000 helped growth, but drops in
production hampered Gabon from fully realizing potential gains. An
expected decline in oil output may lead to contraction in GDP in
2001-02.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $7.7 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 1.2% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $6,300 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  10%

industry:  60%

services:  30% (1999 est.)

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 1.5% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 600,000

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture 60%, services and
government 25%, industry and commerce 15%

Unemployment rate: 21% (1997 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $1.5 billion

expenditures:  $1.3 billion, including capital expenditures of $302
million (1996 est.)

Industries: food and beverage; textile; lumbering and plywood;
cement; petroleum extraction and refining; manganese, uranium, and
gold mining; chemicals; ship repair

Industrial production growth rate: 2.3% (1995)

Electricity - production: 1.02 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  29.9%

hydro:  70.1%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 948.6 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: cocoa, coffee, sugar, palm oil, rubber;
cattle; okoume (a tropical softwood); fish

Exports: $3.4 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Exports - commodities: crude oil 75%, timber, manganese, uranium
(1998)

Exports - partners: US 47%, France 19%, China 8%, Japan 1.3% (1999)

Imports: $1 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Imports - commodities: machinery and equipment, foodstuffs,
chemicals, petroleum products, construction materials

Imports - partners: France 64%, US 4%, UK 2%, Netherlands 2%, (1999)

Debt - external: $3.9 billion (2000 est.)

Economic aid - recipient: $331 million (1995)

Currency: Communaute Financiere Africaine franc (XAF); note -
responsible authority is the Bank of the Central African States

Currency code: XAF

Exchange rates: Communaute Financiere Africaine francs (XAF) per US
dollar - 699.21 (January 2001), 711.98 (2000), 615.70 (1999), 589.95
(1998), 583.67 (1997), 511.55 (1996); note - from 1 January 1999,
the XAF is pegged to the euro at a rate of 655.957 XAF per euro

Fiscal year: calendar year



Gabon    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 37,000 (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 9,500 (1997)

Telephone system: general assessment:  NA

domestic:  adequate system of cable, microwave radio relay,
tropospheric scatter, radiotelephone communication stations, and a
domestic satellite system with 12 earth stations

international:  satellite earth stations - 3 Intelsat (Atlantic
Ocean)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 6, FM 7, shortwave 6 (1998)

Radios: 208,000 (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 4 (plus five low-power repeaters)
(1997)

Televisions: 63,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .ga

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 1 (2000)

Internet users: 5,000 (2000)



Gabon    Transportation

Railways: total:  649 km (Gabon State Railways or OCTRA)

standard gauge:  649 km 1.435-m gauge; single track (1994)

Highways: total:  7,670 km

paved:  629 km (including 30 km of expressways)

unpaved:  7,041 km (1996)

Waterways: 1,600 km (perennially navigable)

Pipelines: crude oil 270 km; petroleum products 14 km

Ports and harbors: Cap Lopez, Kango, Lambarene, Libreville, Mayumba,
Owendo, Port-Gentil

Airports: 59 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  10

over 3,047 m:  1

2,438 to 3,047 m:  1

1,524 to 2,437 m:  7

914 to 1,523 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  49

1,524 to 2,437 m:  8

914 to 1,523 m:  17

under 914 m:  24 (2000 est.)



Gabon    Military

Military branches: Army, Navy, Air Force, Republican Guard (charged
with protecting the president and other senior officials), National
Gendarmerie, National Police

Military manpower - military age: 20 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  281,218 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
145,062 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  11,304
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $91 million (FY96)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 1.6% (FY96)



Gabon    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: maritime boundary dispute with Equatorial
Guinea because of disputed sovereignty over islands in Corisco Bay

======================================================================

@Gambia, The




Gambia, The    Introduction

Background: The Gambia gained its independence from the UK in 1965;
it formed a short-lived federation of Senegambia with Senegal
between 1982 and 1989. In 1991 the two nations signed a friendship
and cooperation treaty. A military coup in 1994 overthrew the
president and banned political activity, but a new 1996 constitution
and presidential elections, followed by parliamentary balloting in
1997, have completed a nominal return to civilian rule.



Gambia, The    Geography

Location: Western Africa, bordering the North Atlantic Ocean and
Senegal

Geographic coordinates: 13 28 N, 16 34 W

Map references: Africa

Area: total:  11,300 sq km

land:  10,000 sq km

water:  1,300 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly less than twice the size of Delaware

Land boundaries: total:  740 km

border countries:  Senegal 740 km

Coastline: 80 km

Maritime claims: contiguous zone:  18 NM

continental shelf:  not specified

exclusive fishing zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: tropical; hot, rainy season (June to November); cooler, dry
season (November to May)

Terrain: flood plain of the Gambia river flanked by some low hills

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Atlantic Ocean 0 m

highest point:  unnamed location 53 m

Natural resources: fish

Land use: arable land:  18%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  9%

forests and woodland:  28%

other:  45% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 150 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: drought (rainfall has dropped by 30% in the last 30
years)

Environment - current issues: deforestation; desertification;
water-borne diseases prevalent

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous
Wastes, Law of the Sea, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection,
Ship Pollution, Wetlands

signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Geography - note: almost an enclave of Senegal; smallest country on
the continent of Africa



Gambia, The    People

Population: 1,411,205 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  45.22% (male 320,458; female 317,647)

15-64 years:  52.13% (male 364,900; female 370,717)

65 years and over:  2.65% (male 19,660; female 17,823) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 3.14% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 41.76 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 12.92 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 2.59 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.03 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.01 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  0.98 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  1.1 male(s)/female

total population:  1 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 77.84 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  53.59 years

male:  51.65 years

female:  55.58 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 5.68 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 1.95% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 13,000 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: 1,400 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Gambian(s)

adjective:  Gambian

Ethnic groups: African 99% (Mandinka 42%, Fula 18%, Wolof 16%, Jola
10%, Serahuli 9%, other 4%), non-African 1%

Religions: Muslim 90%, Christian 9%, indigenous beliefs 1%

Languages: English (official), Mandinka, Wolof, Fula, other
indigenous vernaculars

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  47.5%

male:  58.4%

female:  37.1% (2001 est.)



Gambia, The    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Republic of The Gambia

conventional short form:  The Gambia

Government type: republic under multiparty democratic rule

Capital: Banjul

Administrative divisions: 5 divisions and 1 city*; Banjul*, Lower
River, Central River, North Bank, Upper River, Western

Independence: 18 February 1965 (from UK)

National holiday: Independence Day, 18 February (1965)

Constitution: 24 April 1970; suspended July 1994; rewritten and
approved by national referendum 8 August 1996; reestablished in
January 1997

Legal system: based on a composite of English common law, Koranic
law, and customary law; accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction, with
reservations

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Yahya A. J. J. JAMMEH
(since 18 October 1996); Vice President Isatou Njie SAIDY (since 20
March 1997); note - the president is both the chief of state and
head of government

head of government:  President Yahya A. J. J. JAMMEH (since 18
October 1996); Vice President Isatou Njie SAIDY (since 20 March
1997); note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
government

cabinet:  Cabinet is appointed by the president

elections:  the president is elected by popular vote for a five-year
term; the number of terms is not restricted; election last held 26
September 1996 (next to be held NA October 2001)

election results:  Yahya A. J. J. JAMMEH elected president; percent
of vote - Yahya A. J. J. JAMMEH 55.8%, Ousainou DARBOE 35.8%

Legislative branch: unicameral National Assembly (49 seats; 45
elected by popular vote, 4 appointed by the president; members serve
five-year terms)

elections:  last popular election held 2 January 1997 (next to be
held NA January 2002)

election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
APRC 33, UDP 7, NRP 2, PDOIS 1, independents 2

Judicial branch: Supreme Court

Political parties and leaders: Alliance for Patriotic Reorientation
and Construction or APRC [Yahya A. J. J. JAMMEH]; National
Reconciliation Party or NRP [Hamat N. K. BAH]; People's Democratic
Organization for Independence and Socialism or PDOIS [Sidia JATTA];
United Democratic Party or UDP [Ousainou DARBOE]

note:  in August 1996 the government banned the following from
participation in the elections of 1996: People's Progressive Party
or PPP [former President Dawda K. JAWARA (in exile)], and two
opposition parties - the National Convention Party or NCP [former
Vice President Sheriff DIBBA] and the Gambian People's Party or GPP
[Hassan Musa CAMARA]

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: ACP, AfDB, C, CCC, ECA,
ECOWAS, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC,
IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Intelsat (nonsignatory user), Interpol, IOC,
ITU, NAM, OAU, OIC, OPCW, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNMEE, UPU,
WCL, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
John P. BOJANG

chancery:  Suite 1000, 1155 15th Street NW, Washington, DC 20005

telephone:  [1] (202) 785-1399

FAX:  [1] (202) 785-1430

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
George W. B. HALEY

embassy:  Fajara, Kairaba Avenue, Banjul

mailing address:  P. M. B. No. 19, Banjul

telephone:  [220] 392856, 392858, 391970, 391971

FAX:  [220] 392475

Flag description: three equal horizontal bands of red (top), blue
with white edges, and green



Gambia, The    Economy

Economy - overview: The Gambia has no important mineral or other
natural resources and has a limited agricultural base. About 75% of
the population depends on crops and livestock for its livelihood.
Small-scale manufacturing activity features the processing of
peanuts, fish, and hides. Reexport trade normally constitutes a
major segment of economic activity, but a 1999 government-imposed
preshipment inspection plan, instability of the Gambian dalasi, and
the stable political situation in Senegal have drawn some of the
reexport trade away from Banjul. The government's 1998 seizure of
the private peanut firm Alimenta eliminated the largest purchaser of
Gambian groundnuts; the following two marketing seasons have seen
significantly lower prices and sales. A decline in tourism from 1999
to 2000 has also held back growth. Unemployment and underemployment
rates are extremely high. Shortrun economic progress remains highly
dependent on sustained bilateral and multilateral aid, on
responsible government economic management as forwarded by IMF
technical help and advice, and on expected growth in the
construction sector.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $1.5 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 4.9% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $1,100 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  21%

industry:  12%

services:  67% (1998 est.)

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 3.4% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 400,000

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture 75%, industry, commerce,
and services 19%, government 6%

Unemployment rate: NA%

Budget: revenues:  $90.5 million

expenditures:  $80.9 million, including capital expenditures of $4.1
million (2001 est.)

Industries: processing peanuts, fish, and hides; tourism; beverages;
agricultural machinery assembly, woodworking, metalworking; clothing

Industrial production growth rate: NA%

Electricity - production: 75 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  100%

hydro:  0%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 69.8 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: peanuts, millet, sorghum, rice, corn,
sesame, cassava (tapioca), palm kernels; cattle, sheep, goats;
forest and fishery resources not fully exploited

Exports: $125.8 million (f.o.b., 1999)

Exports - commodities: peanuts and peanut products, fish, cotton
lint, palm kernels

Exports - partners: Benelux 59%, Japan 20%, UK 7%, Spain 2% (1999)

Imports: $202.5 million (f.o.b., 1999)

Imports - commodities: foodstuffs, manufactures, fuel, machinery and
transport equipment

Imports - partners: China (including Hong Kong) 49%, UK 15%,
Netherlands 11.6%, Brazil 10%, Senegal 10% (1997)

Debt - external: $440 million (2001 est.)

Economic aid - recipient: $45.4 million (1995)

Currency: dalasi (GMD)

Currency code: GMD

Exchange rates: dalasi per US dollar - 15.000 (January 2001), 12.729
(3d quarter 1999), 11.395 (1999), 10.643 (1998), 10.200 (1997),
9.789 (1996)

Fiscal year: calendar year



Gambia, The    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 31,900 (2000)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 5,624 (2000)

Telephone system: general assessment:  adequate; a packet switched
data network is available

domestic:  adequate network of microwave radio relay and open wire

international:  microwave radio relay links to Senegal and
Guinea-Bissau; satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 3, FM 5, shortwave 0 (2000)

Radios: 196,000 (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 1 (government-owned) (1997)

Televisions: 5,000 (2000)

Internet country code: .gm

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 2 (2001)

Internet users: 5,000 (2001)



Gambia, The    Transportation

Railways: 0 km

Highways: total:  2,700 km

paved:  956 km

unpaved:  1,744 km (1996)

Waterways: 400 km

Ports and harbors: Banjul

Merchant marine: none (2000 est.)

Airports: 1 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  1

over 3,047 m:  1 (2000 est.)



Gambia, The    Military

Military branches: Army (includes marine unit), National Police,
Presidential Guard

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  316,873 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
159,764 (2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $2.6 million (2001 est.)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 2% (FY96/97)



Gambia, The    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

======================================================================

@Gaza Strip




Gaza Strip    Introduction

Background: The Israel-PLO Declaration of Principles on Interim
Self-Government Arrangements (the DOP), signed in Washington on 13
September 1993, provided for a transitional period not exceeding
five years of Palestinian interim self-government in the Gaza Strip
and the West Bank. Under the DOP, Israel agreed to transfer certain
powers and responsibilities to the Palestinian Authority, which
includes the Palestinian Legislative Council elected in January
1996, as part of the interim self-governing arrangements in the West
Bank and Gaza Strip. A transfer of powers and responsibilities for
the Gaza Strip and Jericho took place pursuant to the Israel-PLO 4
May 1994 Cairo Agreement on the Gaza Strip and the Jericho Area and
in additional areas of the West Bank pursuant to the Israel-PLO 28
September 1995 Interim Agreement, the Israel-PLO 15 January 1997
Protocol Concerning Redeployment in Hebron, the Israel-PLO 23
October 1998 Wye River Memorandum, and the 4 September 1999 Sharm
el-Sheikh Agreement. The DOP provides that Israel will retain
responsibility during the transitional period for external security
and for internal security and public order of settlements and
Israeli citizens. Permanent status is to be determined through
direct negotiations, which resumed in September 1999 after a
three-year hiatus. An intifadah broke out in September 2000; the
resulting widespread violence in the West Bank and Gaza Strip,
Israel's military response, and instability in the Palestinian
Authority are undermining progress toward a permanent settlement.



Gaza Strip    Geography

Location: Middle East, bordering the Mediterranean Sea, between
Egypt and Israel

Geographic coordinates: 31 25 N, 34 20 E

Map references: Middle East

Area: total:  360 sq km

land:  360 sq km

water:  0 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly more than twice the size of Washington,
DC

Land boundaries: total:  62 km

border countries:  Egypt 11 km, Israel 51 km

Coastline: 40 km

Maritime claims: Israeli-occupied with current status subject to the
Israeli-Palestinian Interim Agreement - permanent status to be
determined through further negotiation

Climate: temperate, mild winters, dry and warm to hot summers

Terrain: flat to rolling, sand- and dune-covered coastal plain

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Mediterranean Sea 0 m

highest point:  Abu 'Awdah (Joz Abu 'Auda) 105 m

Natural resources: arable land, natural gas

Land use: arable land:  24%

permanent crops:  39%

permanent pastures:  0%

forests and woodland:  11%

other:  26% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 120 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: droughts

Environment - current issues: desertification; salination of fresh
water; sewage treatment; water-borne disease; soil degradation

Geography - note: there are 25 Israeli settlements and civilian land
use sites in the Gaza Strip (August 2000 est.)



Gaza Strip    People

Population: 1,178,119 (July 2001 est.)

note:  in addition, there are some 6,900 Israeli settlers in the
Gaza Strip (August 2000 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  49.89% (male 301,288; female 286,481)

15-64 years:  47.32% (male 283,274; female 274,189)

65 years and over:  2.79% (male 14,121; female 18,766) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 4.01% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 42.48 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 4.21 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 1.8 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1.03 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.75 male(s)/female

total population:  1.03 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 25.37 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  71.01 years

male:  69.76 years

female:  72.32 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 6.42 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: NA%

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: NA

HIV/AIDS - deaths: NA

Nationality: noun:  NA

adjective:  NA

Ethnic groups: Palestinian Arab and other 99.4%, Jewish 0.6%

Religions: Muslim (predominantly Sunni) 98.7%, Christian 0.7%,
Jewish 0.6%

Languages: Arabic, Hebrew (spoken by Israeli settlers and many
Palestinians), English (widely understood)

Literacy: definition:  NA

total population:  NA%

male:  NA%

female:  NA%



Gaza Strip    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  none

conventional short form:  Gaza Strip

local long form:  none

local short form:  Qita Ghazzah



Gaza Strip    Economy

Economy - overview: Economic output in the Gaza Strip - which comes
under the responsibility of the Palestinian Authority since the
Cairo Agreement of May 1994 - declined perhaps one-third between
1992 and 1996. The downturn was largely the result of Israeli
closure policies - the imposition of generalized border closures in
response to security incidents in Israel - which disrupted
previously established labor and commodity market relationships
between Israel and the WBGS (West Bank and Gaza Strip). The most
serious negative social effect of this downturn was the emergence of
high unemployment; unemployment in the WBGS during the 1980s was
generally under 5%; by 1995 it had risen to over 20%. Since 1997
Israel's use of comprehensive closures has decreased and, in 1998,
Israel implemented new policies to reduce the impact of closures and
other security procedures on the movement of Palestinian goods and
labor. These changes fueled an almost three-year long economic
recovery in the West Bank and Gaza Strip; real GDP grew by 5% in
1998 and 6% in 1999. Recovery was upended in the last quarter of
2000 with the outbreak of Palestinian violence, which triggered
tight Israeli closures of Palestinian self-rule areas and a severe
disruption of trade and labor movements.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $1.11 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: -7.5% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $1,000 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  9%

industry:  28%

services:  63% (1999 est., includes West Bank)

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 3% (includes West Bank) (2000 est.)

Labor force: NA

Labor force - by occupation: services 66%, industry 21%, agriculture
13% (1996)

Unemployment rate: 40% (includes West Bank) (yearend 2000)

Budget: revenues:  $1.6 billion

expenditures:  $1.73 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA

note:  includes West Bank (1999 est.)

Industries: generally small family businesses that produce textiles,
soap, olive-wood carvings, and mother-of-pearl souvenirs; the
Israelis have established some small-scale modern industries in an
industrial center

Industrial production growth rate: NA%

Electricity - production: NA kWh; note - electricity supplied by
Israel

Electricity - consumption: NA kWh

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: NA kWh; note - electricity supplied by Israel

Agriculture - products: olives, citrus, vegetables; beef, dairy
products

Exports: $682 million (f.o.b., 1998 est.) (includes West Bank)

Exports - commodities: citrus, flowers

Exports - partners: Israel, Egypt, West Bank

Imports: $2.5 billion (c.i.f., 1998 est.) (includes West Bank)

Imports - commodities: food, consumer goods, construction materials

Imports - partners: Israel, Egypt, West Bank

Debt - external: $108 million (1997 est.) (includes West Bank)

Economic aid - recipient: $121 million disbursed (2000) (includes
West Bank)

Currency: new Israeli shekel (ILS)

Currency code: ILS

Exchange rates: new Israeli shekels per US dollar - 4.0810 (December
2000), 4.0773 (2000), 4.1397 (1999), 3.8001 (1998), 3.4494 (1997),
3.1917 (1996)

Fiscal year: calendar year



Gaza Strip    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 95,729 (total for Gaza Strip and
West Bank) (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: NA

Telephone system: general assessment:  NA

domestic:  rudimentary telephone services provided by an open wire
system

international:  NA

Radio broadcast stations: AM 0, FM 0, shortwave 0 (1998)

Radios: NA; note - most Palestinian households have radios (1999)

Television broadcast stations: 2 (operated by the Palestinian
Broadcasting Corporation) (1997)

Televisions: NA; note - most Palestinian households have televisions
(1997)

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 3 (1999)

Internet users: 23,520 (1999) (includes West Bank)



Gaza Strip    Transportation

Railways: total:  NA km; note - one line, abandoned and in
disrepair, little trackage remains

Highways: total:  NA km

paved:  NA km

unpaved:  NA km

note:  small, poorly developed road network

Waterways: none

Ports and harbors: Gaza

Airports: 2

note:  includes Gaza International Airport that opened on 24
November 1998 as part of agreements stipulated in the September 1995
Oslo II Accord and the 23 October 1998 Wye River Memorandum (2000
est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  1

over 3,047 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  1

under 914 m:  1 (2000 est.)



Gaza Strip    Military

Military branches: NA

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $NA

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: NA%



Gaza Strip    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: West Bank and Gaza Strip are
Israeli-occupied with current status subject to the
Israeli-Palestinian Interim Agreement - permanent status to be
determined through further negotiation

======================================================================

@Georgia




Georgia    Introduction

Background: Georgia was absorbed into the Russian Empire in the 19th
century. Independent for three years (1918-1921) following the
Russian revolution, it was forcibly incorporated into the USSR until
the Soviet Union dissolved in 1991. Russian troops remain garrisoned
at four military bases and as peacekeepers in the separatist regions
of Abkhazia and South Ossetia (but are scheduled to withdraw from
two of the bases by July 2001). Despite a badly degraded
transportation network - brought on by ethnic conflict, criminal
activities, and fuel shortages - the country continues to move
toward a market economy and greater integration with Western
institutions.



Georgia    Geography

Location: Southwestern Asia, bordering the Black Sea, between Turkey
and Russia

Geographic coordinates: 42 00 N, 43 30 E

Map references: Commonwealth of Independent States

Area: total:  69,700 sq km

land:  69,700 sq km

water:  0 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly smaller than South Carolina

Land boundaries: total:  1,461 km

border countries:  Armenia 164 km, Azerbaijan 322 km, Russia 723 km,
Turkey 252 km

Coastline: 310 km

Maritime claims: NA

Climate: warm and pleasant; Mediterranean-like on Black Sea coast

Terrain: largely mountainous with Great Caucasus Mountains in the
north and Lesser Caucasus Mountains in the south; Kolkhet'is Dablobi
(Kolkhida Lowland) opens to the Black Sea in the west; Mtkvari River
Basin in the east; good soils in river valley flood plains,
foothills of Kolkhida Lowland

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Black Sea 0 m

highest point:  Mt'a Mqinvartsveri (Gora Kazbek) 5,048 m

Natural resources: forests, hydropower, manganese deposits, iron
ore, copper, minor coal and oil deposits; coastal climate and soils
allow for important tea and citrus growth

Land use: arable land:  9%

permanent crops:  4%

permanent pastures:  25%

forests and woodland:  34%

other:  28% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 4,000 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: earthquakes

Environment - current issues: air pollution, particularly in
Rust'avi; heavy pollution of Mtkvari River and the Black Sea;
inadequate supplies of potable water; soil pollution from toxic
chemicals

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Air Pollution,
Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol,
Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the
Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands

signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements



Georgia    People

Population: 4,989,285 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  19.59% (male 498,575; female 478,663)

15-64 years:  67.91% (male 1,632,338; female 1,755,910)

65 years and over:  12.5% (male 241,824; female 381,975) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: -0.59% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 11.18 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 14.58 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: -2.48 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  0.93 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.63 male(s)/female

total population:  0.91 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 52.37 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  64.57 years

male:  61.04 years

female:  68.28 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 1.45 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: less than 0.01% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: less than 500 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: less than 100 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Georgian(s)

adjective:  Georgian

Ethnic groups: Georgian 70.1%, Armenian 8.1%, Russian 6.3%, Azeri
5.7%, Ossetian 3%, Abkhaz 1.8%, other 5%

Religions: Georgian Orthodox 65%, Muslim 11%, Russian Orthodox 10%,
Armenian Apostolic 8%, unknown 6%

Languages: Georgian 71% (official), Russian 9%, Armenian 7%, Azeri
6%, other 7%

note:  Abkhaz is the official language in Abkhazia

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  99%

male:  100%

female:  98% (1989 est.)



Georgia    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  none

conventional short form:  Georgia

local long form:  none

local short form:  Sak'art'velo

former:  Georgian Soviet Socialist Republic

Government type: republic

Capital: T'bilisi

Administrative divisions: 53 rayons (raionebi, singular - raioni), 9
cities* (k'alak'ebi, singular - k'alak'i), and 2 autonomous
republics** (avtomnoy respubliki, singular - avtom respublika);
Abashis, Abkhazia or Ap'khazet'is Avtonomiuri Respublika**
(Sokhumi), Adigenis, Ajaria or Acharis Avtonomiuri Respublika**
(Bat'umi), Akhalgoris, Akhalk'alak'is, Akhalts'ikhis, Akhmetis,
Ambrolauris, Aspindzis, Baghdat'is, Bolnisis, Borjomis, Chiat'ura*,
Ch'khorotsqus, Ch'okhatauris, Dedop'listsqaros, Dmanisis, Dushet'is,
Gardabanis, Gori*, Goris, Gurjaanis, Javis, K'arelis, Kaspis,
Kharagaulis, Khashuris, Khobis, Khonis, K'ut'aisi*, Lagodekhis,
Lanch'khut'is, Lentekhis, Marneulis, Martvilis, Mestiis,
Mts'khet'is, Ninotsmindis, Onis, Ozurget'is, P'ot'i*, Qazbegis,
Qvarlis, Rust'avi*, Sach'kheris, Sagarejos, Samtrediis, Senakis,
Sighnaghis, T'bilisi*, T'elavis, T'erjolis, T'et'ritsqaros,
T'ianet'is, Tqibuli*, Ts'ageris, Tsalenjikhis, Tsalkis, Tsqaltubo*,
Vanis, Zestap'onis, Zugdidi*, Zugdidis

note:  administrative divisions have the same names as their
administrative centers (exceptions have the administrative center
name following in parentheses)

Independence: 9 April 1991 (from Soviet Union)

National holiday: Independence Day, 26 May (1918); note - 26 May
1918 is the date of independence from Soviet Russia, 9 April 1991 is
the date of independence from the Soviet Union

Constitution: adopted 17 October 1995

Legal system: based on civil law system

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Eduard Amvrosiyevich
SHEVARDNADZE (previously elected chairman of the Government Council
10 March 1992; Council has since been disbanded; previously elected
chairman of Parliament 11 October 1992; president since 26 November
1995); note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
government

head of government:  President Eduard Amvrosiyevich SHEVARDNADZE
(previously elected chairman of the Government Council 10 March
1992; Council has since been disbanded; previously elected chairman
of Parliament 11 October 1992; president since 26 November 1995);
note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
government

cabinet:  Cabinet of Ministers

elections:  president elected by popular vote for a five-year term;
election last held 9 April 2000 (next to be held NA 2005)

election results:  Eduard SHEVARDNADZE reelected president; percent
of vote - Eduard SHEVARDNADZE 80%

Legislative branch: unicameral Supreme Council (commonly referred to
as Parliament) or Umaghiesi Sabcho (235 seats; members are elected
by popular vote to serve four-year terms)

elections:  last held 31 October and 14 November 1999 (next to be
held NA 2003)

election results:  percent of vote by party - CUG 41.85%, AGUR
25.65%, IWSG 7.8%, all other parties received less than 7% each;
seats by party - CUG 130, AGUR 58, IWSG 15, Abkhaz deputies 12,
independents 17, other 3

Judicial branch: Supreme Court (judges elected by the Supreme
Council on the president's recommendation); Constitutional Court

Political parties and leaders: Citizen's Union of Georgia or CUG
[Eduard SHEVARDNADZE]; Georgian United Communist Party or UCPG
[Panteleimon GIORGADZE, chairman]; Industry Will Save Georgia or
IWSG [Georgi TOPADZE]; National Democratic Party or NDP [Irina
SARISHVILI-CHANTURIA]; Socialist Party or SPG [Temur GAMTSEMLIDZE];
Union for "Revival" Party or AGUR [Alsan ABASHIDZE]; United
Republican Party or URP [Nodar NATADZE, chairman]

Political pressure groups and leaders: Georgian refugees from
Abkhazia (Abkhaz faction in Georgian Parliament); separatist
elements in the breakaway region of Abkhazia; supporters of the late
ousted President Zviad GAMSAKHURDYA remain a source of opposition

International organization participation: BSEC, CCC, CE, CIS, EAPC,
EBRD, ECE, FAO, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO,
IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM (observer), ITU, OPCW, OSCE,
PFP, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Tedo JAPARIDZE

chancery:  Suite 300, 1615 New Hampshire Avenue NW, Washington, DC
20009

telephone:  [1] (202) 387-2390

FAX:  [1] (202) 393-4537

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Kenneth S. YALOWITZ

embassy:  #25 Antoneli Street, T'bilisi 380026

mailing address:  use embassy street address

telephone:  [995] (32) 989-967/68

FAX:  [995] (32) 933-759

Flag description: maroon field with small rectangle in upper hoist
side corner; rectangle divided horizontally with black on top, white
below



Georgia    Economy

Economy - overview: Georgia's economy has traditionally revolved
around Black Sea tourism; cultivation of citrus fruits, tea, and
grapes; mining of manganese and copper; and output of a small
industrial sector producing wine, metals, machinery, chemicals, and
textiles. The country imports the bulk of its energy needs,
including natural gas and oil products. Its only sizable internal
energy resource is hydropower. Despite the severe damage the economy
has suffered due to civil strife, Georgia, with the help of the IMF
and World Bank, has made substantial economic gains since 1995,
increasing GDP growth and slashing inflation. The Georgian economy
continues to experience large budget deficits due to a failure to
collect tax revenues. Georgia also still suffers from energy
shortages; it privatized the distribution network in 1998, and
deliveries are steadily improving. The country is pinning its hopes
for long-term recovery on the development of an international
transportation corridor through the key Black Sea ports of P'ot'i
and Bat'umi. The growing trade deficit, continuing problems with tax
evasion and corruption, and political uncertainties cloud the
short-term economic picture.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $22.8 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 1.9% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $4,600 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  32%

industry:  23%

services:  45% (1999 est.)

Population below poverty line: 60% (1999 est.)

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 4.1% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 3.08 million (1997)

Labor force - by occupation: industry 20%, agriculture 40%, services
40% (1999 est.)

Unemployment rate: 14.9% (1999 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $437 million

expenditures:  $626 million, including capital expenditures of $60
million (1999)

Industries: steel, aircraft, machine tools, electric locomotives,
trucks, tractors, textiles, shoes, chemicals, wood products, wine

Industrial production growth rate: -0.3% (1998 est.)

Electricity - production: 7.975 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  20.38%

hydro:  79.62%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 7.117 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 850 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 550 million kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: citrus, grapes, tea, vegetables, potatoes;
livestock

Exports: $372 million (2000 est.)

Exports - commodities: citrus fruits, tea, wine, other agricultural
products; diverse types of machinery and metals; chemicals; fuel
reexports; textiles

Exports - partners: Russia 19%, Turkey 16%, Azerbaijan 8%, Armenia
6% (1999)

Imports: $898 million (2000 est.)

Imports - commodities: fuel, grain and other foods, machinery and
parts, transport equipment

Imports - partners: EU 22%, Russia 19%, Turkey 12%, US 12% (1999)

Debt - external: $1.9 billion (2000)

Economic aid - recipient: $212.7 million (1995)

Currency: lari (GEL)

Currency code: GEL

Exchange rates: lari per US dollar - 1.9798 (December 2000), 1.9762
(2000), 2.0245 (1999), 1.3898 (1998), 1.2975 (1997), 1.2628 (1996)

Fiscal year: calendar year



Georgia    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 620,000 (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 30,000 (1997)

Telephone system: general assessment:  NA

domestic:  local - T'bilisi and K'ut'aisi have cellular telephone
networks; urban telephone density is about 20 per 100 people; rural
telephone density is about 4 per 100 people; intercity facilities
include a fiber-optic line between T'bilisi and K'ut'aisi;
nationwide pager service is available

international:  Georgia and Russia are working on a fiber-optic line
between P'ot'i and Sochi (Russia); present international service is
available by microwave, landline, and satellite through the Moscow
switch; international electronic mail and telex service are available

Radio broadcast stations: AM 7, FM 12, shortwave 4 (1998)

Radios: 3.02 million (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 12 (plus repeaters) (1998)

Televisions: 2.57 million (1997)

Internet country code: .ge

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 6 (2000)

Internet users: 20,000 (2000)



Georgia    Transportation

Railways: total:  1,583 km in common carrier service; does not
include industrial lines

broad gauge:  1,583 km 1.520-m gauge (1993)

Highways: total:  33,900 km

paved:  29,500 km (these roads are said to be hard-surfaced, and
include, in addition to conventionally paved roads, some that are
surfaced with gravel or other coarse aggregate, making them
trafficable in all weather)

unpaved:  4,400 km (these roads are made of unstabilized earth and
are difficult to negotiate in wet weather) (1990)

Waterways: none

Pipelines: crude oil 370 km; refined products 300 km; natural gas
440 km (1992)

Ports and harbors: Bat'umi, P'ot'i, Sokhumi

Merchant marine: total:  37 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
131,316 GRT/190,289 DWT

ships by type:  bulk 3, cargo 25, chemical tanker 2, container 2,
petroleum tanker 4, roll on/roll off 1 (2000 est.)

Airports: 31 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  16

over 3,047 m:  1

2,438 to 3,047 m:  8

1,524 to 2,437 m:  2

914 to 1,523 m:  2

under 914 m:  3 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  15

2,438 to 3,047 m:  1

1,524 to 2,437 m:  4

914 to 1,523 m:  4

under 914 m:  6 (2000 est.)

Transportation - note: transportation network is in poor condition
resulting from ethnic conflict, criminal activities, and fuel
shortages; network lacks maintenance and repair



Georgia    Military

Military branches: Ground Forces, Navy, Air Force and Air Defense
Forces, National Guard, Security Forces (internal and border troops)

Military manpower - military age: 18 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  1,296,199 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
1,024,574 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  41,561
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $23 million (FY00)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 0.59% (FY00)

Military - note: a CIS peacekeeping force consisting of Russian
troops is deployed in the Abkhazia region of Georgia together with a
UN military observer group; a Russian peacekeeping battalion is
deployed in South Ossetia



Georgia    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

Illicit drugs: limited cultivation of cannabis and opium poppy,
mostly for domestic consumption; used as transshipment point for
opiates via Central Asia to Western Europe and Russia

======================================================================

@Germany




Germany    Introduction

Background: As Western Europe's richest and most populous nation,
Germany remains a key member of the continent's economic, political,
and defense organizations. European power struggles immersed the
country in two devastating World Wars in the first half of the 20th
century and left the country occupied by the victorious Allied
powers of the US, UK, France, and the Soviet Union in 1945. With the
advent of the Cold War, two German states were formed in 1949: the
western Federal Republic of Germany (FRG) and the eastern German
Democratic Republic (GDR). The democratic FRG embedded itself in key
Western economic and security organizations, the EC and NATO, while
the communist GDR was on the front line of the Soviet-led Warsaw
Pact. The decline of the USSR and the end of the Cold War allowed
for German unification in 1990. Since then Germany has expended
considerable funds to bring eastern productivity and wages up to
western standards. In January 1999, Germany and 10 other EU
countries formed a common European currency, the euro.



Germany    Geography

Location: Central Europe, bordering the Baltic Sea and the North
Sea, between the Netherlands and Poland, south of Denmark

Geographic coordinates: 51 00 N, 9 00 E

Map references: Europe

Area: total:  357,021 sq km

land:  349,223 sq km

water:  7,798 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly smaller than Montana

Land boundaries: total:  3,618 km

border countries:  Austria 784 km, Belgium 167 km, Czech Republic
646 km, Denmark 68 km, France 451 km, Luxembourg 135 km, Netherlands
577 km, Poland 456 km, Switzerland 334 km

Coastline: 2,389 km

Maritime claims: continental shelf:  200-m depth or to the depth of
exploitation

exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: temperate and marine; cool, cloudy, wet winters and
summers; occasional warm foehn wind

Terrain: lowlands in north, uplands in center, Bavarian Alps in south

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Freepsum Lake -2 m

highest point:  Zugspitze 2,963 m

Natural resources: iron ore, coal, potash, timber, lignite, uranium,
copper, natural gas, salt, nickel, arable land

Land use: arable land:  33%

permanent crops:  1%

permanent pastures:  15%

forests and woodland:  31%

other:  20% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 4,750 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: flooding

Environment - current issues: emissions from coal-burning utilities
and industries contribute to air pollution; acid rain, resulting
from sulfur dioxide emissions, is damaging forests; pollution in the
Baltic Sea from raw sewage and industrial effluents from rivers in
eastern Germany; hazardous waste disposal; government currently
attempting to define mechanism for ending the use of nuclear power;
government working to meet EU commitment to identify nature
preservation areas in line with the EU's Flora, Fauna, and Habitat
directive

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Air Pollution,
Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air Pollution-Sulphur 85, Air
Pollution-Sulphur 94, Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds,
Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic-Marine Living Resources,
Antarctic Seals, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change,
Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification,
Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Nuclear Test Ban,
Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical
Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling

signed, but not ratified:  Air Pollution-Persistent Organic
Pollutants, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol

Geography - note: strategic location on North European Plain and
along the entrance to the Baltic Sea



Germany    People

Population: 83,029,536 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  15.57% (male 6,635,328; female 6,289,994)

15-64 years:  67.82% (male 28,619,237; female 27,691,698)

65 years and over:  16.61% (male 5,336,664; female 8,456,615) (2001
est.)

Population growth rate: 0.27% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 9.16 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 10.42 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 4 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.06 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1.03 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.63 male(s)/female

total population:  0.96 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 4.71 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  77.61 years

male:  74.47 years

female:  80.92 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 1.38 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 0.1% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 37,000 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: 600 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  German(s)

adjective:  German

Ethnic groups: German 91.5%, Turkish 2.4%, other 6.1% (made up
largely of Serbo-Croatian, Italian, Russian, Greek, Polish, Spanish)

Religions: Protestant 38%, Roman Catholic 34%, Muslim 1.7%,
unaffiliated or other 26.3%

Languages: German

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  99% (1977 est.)

male:  NA%

female:  NA%



Germany    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Federal Republic of Germany

conventional short form:  Germany

local long form:  Bundesrepublik Deutschland

local short form:  Deutschland

former:  German Empire, German Republic, German Reich

Government type: federal republic

Capital: Berlin

Administrative divisions: 16 states (Laender, singular - Land);
Baden-Wuerttemberg, Bayern, Berlin, Brandenburg, Bremen, Hamburg,
Hessen, Mecklenburg-Vorpommern, Niedersachsen, Nordrhein-Westfalen,
Rheinland-Pfalz, Saarland, Sachsen, Sachsen-Anhalt,
Schleswig-Holstein, Thueringen

Independence: 18 January 1871 (German Empire unification); divided
into four zones of occupation (UK, US, USSR, and later, France) in
1945 following World War II; Federal Republic of Germany (FRG or
West Germany) proclaimed 23 May 1949 and included the former UK, US,
and French zones; German Democratic Republic (GDR or East Germany)
proclaimed 7 October 1949 and included the former USSR zone;
unification of West Germany and East Germany took place 3 October
1990; all four powers formally relinquished rights 15 March 1991

National holiday: Unity Day, 3 October (1990)

Constitution: 23 May 1949, known as Basic Law; became constitution
of the united German people 3 October 1990

Legal system: civil law system with indigenous concepts; judicial
review of legislative acts in the Federal Constitutional Court; has
not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Johannes RAU (since 1
July 1999)

head of government:  Chancellor Gerhard SCHROEDER (since 27 October
1998)

cabinet:  Cabinet or Bundesminister (Federal Ministers) appointed by
the president on the recommendation of the chancellor

elections:  president elected for a five-year term by a Federal
Convention including all members of the Federal Assembly and an
equal number of delegates elected by the state parliaments; election
last held 23 May 1999 (next to be held 23 May 2004); chancellor
elected by an absolute majority of the Federal Assembly for a
four-year term; election last held 27 September 1998 (next to be
held in the fall of 2002)

election results:  Johannes RAU elected president; percent of
Federal Convention vote - 57.6%; Gerhard SCHROEDER elected
chancellor; percent of Federal Assembly - 52.7%

Legislative branch: bicameral Parliament or Parlament consists of
the Federal Assembly or Bundestag (656 seats usually, but 669 for
the 1998 term; elected by popular vote under a system combining
direct and proportional representation; a party must win 5% of the
national vote or three direct mandates to gain representation;
members serve four-year terms) and the Federal Council or Bundesrat
(69 votes; state governments are directly represented by votes; each
has 3 to 6 votes depending on population and are required to vote as
a block)

elections:  Federal Assembly - last held 27 September 1998 (next to
be held by the fall of 2002); note - there are no elections for the
Bundesrat; composition is determined by the composition of the
state-level governments; the composition of the Bundesrat has the
potential to change any time one of the 16 states holds an election

election results:  Federal Assembly - percent of vote by party - SPD
40.9%, Alliance '90/Greens 6.7%, CDU/CSU 35.1%, FDP 6.2%, PDS 5.1%;
seats by party - SPD 298, Alliance '90/Greens 47, CDU/CSU 245, FDP
43, PDS 36; Federal Council - current composition - votes by party -
SPD-led states 26, CDU-led states 28, grand coalitions 15

Judicial branch: Federal Constitutional Court or
Bundesverfassungsgericht (half the judges are elected by the
Bundestag and half by the Bundesrat)

Political parties and leaders: Alliance '90/Greens [Renate KUENAST
and Fritz KUHN]; Christian Democratic Union or CDU [Angela MERKEL];
Christian Social Union or CSU [Edmund STOIBER, chairman]; Free
Democratic Party or FDP [Wolfgang GERHARDT, chairman]; note -
Wolfgang GERHARDT will probably be replaced by Guido WESTERWELLE in
May 2001; Party of Democratic Socialism or PDS [Gabi ZIMMER]; Social
Democratic Party or SPD [Gerhard SCHROEDER, chairman]

Political pressure groups and leaders: employers' organizations;
expellee, refugee, trade unions, and veterans groups

International organization participation: AfDB, AsDB, Australia
Group, BDEAC, BIS, CBSS, CCC, CDB (non-regional), CE, CERN, EAPC,
EBRD, ECE, EIB, EMU, ESA, EU, FAO, G- 5, G- 7, G-10, IADB, IAEA,
IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IEA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO,
IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO, ITU, MONUC,
NAM (guest), NATO, NEA, NSG, OAS (observer), OECD, OPCW, OSCE, PCA,
UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNIKOM, UNMIBH, UNMIK, UNOMIG,
UPU, WADB (nonregional), WEU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO, ZC

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Juergen CHROBOG

chancery:  4645 Reservoir Road NW, Washington, DC 20007

telephone:  [1] (202) 298-8141

FAX:  [1] (202) 298-4249

consulate(s) general:  Atlanta, Boston, Chicago, Detroit, Houston,
Los Angeles, Miami, New York, San Francisco, Seattle

consulate(s):  Wellington (America Samoa)

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
John C. KORNBLUM (was due to resign on 20 January 2001)

embassy:  Neustaedtische Kirchstrasse 4-5, 10117 Berlin

mailing address:  PSC 120, Box 1000, APO AE 09265

telephone:  [49] (30) 238-5174

FAX:  [49] (30) 238-6290

consulate(s) general:  Duesseldorf, Frankfurt am Main, Hamburg,
Leipzig, Munich

Flag description: three equal horizontal bands of black (top), red,
and gold



Germany    Economy

Economy - overview: Germany possesses the world's third most
technologically powerful economy after the US and Japan, but
structural market rigidities - including the substantial non-wage
costs of hiring new workers - have made unemployment a long-term,
not just a cyclical, problem. Germany's aging population, combined
with high unemployment, has pushed social security outlays to a
level exceeding contributions from workers. The modernization and
integration of the eastern German economy remains a costly long-term
problem, with annual transfers from western Germany amounting to
roughly $70 billion. Growth picked up to 3% in 2000, largely due to
recovering global demand; newly passed business and income tax cuts
are expected to keep growth strong in 2001. Corporate restructuring
and growing capital markets are transforming the German economy to
meet the challenges of European economic integration and
globalization in general.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $1.936 trillion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 3% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $23,400 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  1.2%

industry:  30.4%

services:  68.4% (1999)

Population below poverty line: NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 2% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 40.5 million (1999 est.)

Labor force - by occupation: industry 33.4%, agriculture 2.8%,
services 63.8% (1999)

Unemployment rate: 9.9% (2000 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $996 billion

expenditures:  $1.036 trillion, including capital expenditures of
$NA (1999 est.)

Industries: among the world's largest and most technologically
advanced producers of iron, steel, coal, cement, chemicals,
machinery, vehicles, machine tools, electronics, food and beverages;
shipbuilding; textiles

Industrial production growth rate: 4.7% (2000)

Electricity - production: 531.377 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  63.29%

hydro:  3.59%

nuclear:  30.3%

other:  2.82% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 495.181 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 39.5 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 40.5 billion kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: potatoes, wheat, barley, sugar beets, fruit,
cabbages; cattle, pigs, poultry

Exports: $578 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Exports - commodities: machinery, vehicles, chemicals, metals and
manufactures, foodstuffs, textiles

Exports - partners: EU 55.3% (France 11.3%, UK 8.3%, Italy 7.3%,
Netherlands 6.3%, Belgium/Luxembourg 5.1%), US 10.1%, Japan 2.0%
(1999)

Imports: $505 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Imports - commodities: machinery, vehicles, chemicals, foodstuffs,
textiles, metals

Imports - partners: EU 52.2% (France 10.5%, Netherlands 7.6%, Italy
7.4%, UK 6.9%, Belgium/Luxembourg 5.6%), US 8.1%, Japan 4.9% (1999)

Debt - external: $NA

Economic aid - donor: ODA, $5.6 billion (1998)

Currency: deutsche mark (DEM); euro (EUR)

note:  on 1 January 1999, the EU introduced the euro as a common
currency that is now being used by financial institutions in Germany
at a fixed rate of 1.95583 deutsche marks per euro and will replace
the local currency for all transactions in 2002

Currency code: DEM; EUR

Exchange rates: euros per US dollar - 1.0659 (January 2001), 1.0854
(2000), 0.9386 (1999); deutsche marks per US dollar - 1.69 (January
1999), 1.7597 (1998), 1.7341 (1997), 1.5048 (1996)

Fiscal year: calendar year



Germany    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 45.2 million (1997)

note:  46.5 million main lines were installed by yearend 1998

Telephones - mobile cellular: 15.318 million (April 1999)

Telephone system: general assessment:  Germany has one of the
world's most technologically advanced telecommunications systems; as
a result of intensive capital expenditures since reunification, the
formerly backward system of the eastern part of the country has been
modernized and integrated with that of the western part

domestic:  Germany is served by an extensive system of automatic
telephone exchanges connected by modern networks of fiber-optic
cable, coaxial cable, microwave radio relay, and a domestic
satellite system; cellular telephone service is widely available and
includes roaming service to many foreign countries

international:  satellite earth stations - 14 Intelsat (12 Atlantic
Ocean and 2 Indian Ocean), 1 Eutelsat, 1 Inmarsat (Atlantic Ocean
region), 2 Intersputnik (1 Atlantic Ocean region and 1 Indian Ocean
region); 7 submarine cable connections; 2 HF radiotelephone
communication centers; tropospheric scatter links

Radio broadcast stations: AM 51, FM 767, shortwave 4 (1998)

Radios: 77.8 million (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 373 (plus 8,042 repeaters) (1995)

Televisions: 51.4 million (1998)

Internet country code: .de

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 123 (2000)

Internet users: 18 million (2000)



Germany    Transportation

Railways: total:  40,826 km including at least 14,253 km electrified
and 14,768 km double- or multiple-tracked (1998)

note:  since privatization in 1994, Deutsche Bahn AG (DBAG) no
longer publishes details of the tracks it owns; in addition to the
DBAG system there are 102 privately owned railway companies which
own an approximate 3,000 km to 4,000 km of the total tracks

Highways: total:  656,140 km

paved:  650,891 km (including 11,400 km of expressways)

unpaved:  5,249 km (all-weather) (1998 est.)

Waterways: 7,500 km

note:  major rivers include the Rhine and Elbe; Kiel Canal is an
important connection between the Baltic Sea and North Sea (1999)

Pipelines: crude oil 2,500 km (1998)

Ports and harbors: Berlin, Bonn, Brake, Bremen, Bremerhaven,
Cologne, Dresden, Duisburg, Emden, Hamburg, Karlsruhe, Kiel,
Luebeck, Magdeburg, Mannheim, Rostock, Stuttgart

Merchant marine: total:  457 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
6,414,724 GRT/7,952,776 DWT

ships by type:  cargo 169, chemical tanker 10, combination ore/oil
1, container 243, liquefied gas 2, passenger 3, petroleum tanker 7,
railcar carrier 2, refrigerated cargo 1, roll on/roll off 12,
short-sea passenger 7 (2000 est.)

Airports: 613 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  322

over 3,047 m:  13

2,438 to 3,047 m:  55

1,524 to 2,437 m:  67

914 to 1,523 m:  63

under 914 m:  124 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  291

over 3,047 m:  2

2,438 to 3,047 m:  6

1,524 to 2,437 m:  5

914 to 1,523 m:  53

under 914 m:  225 (2000 est.)

Heliports: 59 (2000 est.)



Germany    Military

Military branches: Army, Navy (includes Naval Air Arm), Air Force,
Medical Corps, Border Police, Coast Guard

Military manpower - military age: 18 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  20,851,022 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
17,760,412 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  482,318
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $32.8 billion (FY98)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 1.5% (FY98)



Germany    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

Illicit drugs: source of precursor chemicals for South American
cocaine processors; transshipment point for and consumer of
Southwest Asian heroin, Latin American cocaine, and
European-produced synthetic drugs

======================================================================

@Ghana




Ghana    Introduction

Background: Formed from the merger of the British colony of the Gold
Coast and the Togoland trust territory, Ghana in 1957 became the
first country in colonial Africa to gain its independence. A long
series of coups resulted in the suspension of the constitution in
1981 and the banning of political parties. A new constitution,
restoring multiparty politics, was approved in 1992. Lt. Jerry
RAWLINGS, head of state since 1981, won presidential elections in
1992 and 1996, but was constitutionally prevented from running for a
third term in 2000. He was succeeded by John KUFUOR.



Ghana    Geography

Location: Western Africa, bordering the Gulf of Guinea, between Cote
d'Ivoire and Togo

Geographic coordinates: 8 00 N, 2 00 W

Map references: Africa

Area: total:  238,540 sq km

land:  230,020 sq km

water:  8,520 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly smaller than Oregon

Land boundaries: total:  2,093 km

border countries:  Burkina Faso 548 km, Cote d'Ivoire 668 km, Togo
877 km

Coastline: 539 km

Maritime claims: contiguous zone:  24 NM

continental shelf:  200 NM

exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: tropical; warm and comparatively dry along southeast coast;
hot and humid in southwest; hot and dry in north

Terrain: mostly low plains with dissected plateau in south-central
area

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Atlantic Ocean 0 m

highest point:  Mount Afadjato 880 m

Natural resources: gold, timber, industrial diamonds, bauxite,
manganese, fish, rubber, hydropower

Land use: arable land:  12%

permanent crops:  7%

permanent pastures:  22%

forests and woodland:  35%

other:  24% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 60 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: dry, dusty, harmattan winds occur from January to
March; droughts

Environment - current issues: recent drought in north severely
affecting agricultural activities; deforestation; overgrazing; soil
erosion; poaching and habitat destruction threatens wildlife
populations; water pollution; inadequate supplies of potable water

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental
Modification, Law of the Sea, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer
Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94,
Wetlands

signed, but not ratified:  Marine Life Conservation

Geography - note: Lake Volta is the world's largest artificial lake;
northeasterly harmattan wind (January to March)



Ghana    People

Population: 19,894,014

note:  estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
life expectancy, higher infant mortality and death rates, lower
population and growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  41.18% (male 4,123,317; female 4,068,786)

15-64 years:  55.35% (male 5,455,577; female 5,555,278)

65 years and over:  3.47% (male 328,809; female 362,247) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 1.79% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 28.95 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 10.26 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: -0.83 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.03 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.01 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  0.98 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.91 male(s)/female

total population:  0.99 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 56.54 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  57.24 years

male:  55.86 years

female:  58.66 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 3.82 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 3.6% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 340,000 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: 33,000 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Ghanaian(s)

adjective:  Ghanaian

Ethnic groups: black African 99.8% (major tribes - Akan 44%,
Moshi-Dagomba 16%, Ewe 13%, Ga 8%), European and other 0.2%

Religions: indigenous beliefs 38%, Muslim 30%, Christian 24%, other
8%

Languages: English (official), African languages (including Akan,
Moshi-Dagomba, Ewe, and Ga)

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  64.5%

male:  75.9%

female:  53.5% (1995 est.)



Ghana    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Republic of Ghana

conventional short form:  Ghana

former:  Gold Coast

Government type: constitutional democracy

Capital: Accra

Administrative divisions: 10 regions; Ashanti, Brong-Ahafo, Central,
Eastern, Greater Accra, Northern, Upper East, Upper West, Volta,
Western

Independence: 6 March 1957 (from UK)

National holiday: Independence Day, 6 March (1957)

Constitution: new constitution approved 28 April 1992

Legal system: based on English common law and customary law; has not
accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  President John Agyekum KUFUOR
(since 7 January 2001); Vice President Alhaji Aliu MAHAMA (since 7
January 2001); note - the president is both the chief of state and
head of government

head of government:  President John Agyekum KUFUOR (since 7 January
2001); Vice President Alhaji Aliu MAHAMA (since 7 January 2001);
note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
government

cabinet:  Council of Ministers; president nominates members subject
to approval by Parliament

elections:  president and vice president elected on the same ticket
by popular vote for four-year terms; election last held 7 and 28
December 2000 (next to be held NA December 2004)

election results:  John Agyekum KUFUOR elected president in runoff;
percent of vote - John KUFUOR 56.4%, John Atta MILLS 43.6%

Legislative branch: unicameral Parliament (200 seats; members are
elected by direct popular vote to serve four-year terms)

elections:  last held 7 December 2000 (next to be held NA December
2004)

election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
NPP 100, NDC 92, PNC 3, CPP 1, independents 4

Judicial branch: Supreme Court

Political parties and leaders: Every Ghanaian Living Everywhere or
EGLE [Owuraku AMOFA, chairman]; National Convention Party or NCP
[Sarpong KUMA-KUMA]; National Democratic Congress or NDC [Dr. Huudu
YAHAYA, general secretary]; New Patriotic Party or NPP [Samuel
Arthur ODOI-SYKES]; People's Convention Party or PCP [P. K.
DONKOH-AYIFI, acting chairman]; People's Heritage Party or PHP
[Emmanuel Alexander ERSKINE]; People's National Convention or PNC
[Edward MAHAMA]

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: ABEDA, ACP, AfDB, C, CCC,
ECA, ECOWAS, FAO, G-24, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, ICRM,
IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat, Interpol,
IOC, IOM (observer), ISO, ITU, MINURSO, NAM, OAS (observer), OAU,
OPCW, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNIFIL, UNIKOM, UNITAR, UNMEE,
UNMIBH, UNMIK, UNMOP, UNMOT, UNTAET, UNU, UPU, WCL, WFTU, WHO, WIPO,
WMO, WToO, WTrO

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Kobena KOOMSON

chancery:  3512 International Drive NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone:  [1] (202) 686-4520

FAX:  [1] (202) 686-4527

consulate(s) general:  New York

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Kathryn D. ROBINSON

embassy:  Ring Road East, East of Danquah Circle, Accra

mailing address:  P. O. Box 194, Accra

telephone:  [233] (21) 775348

FAX:  [233] (21) 776008

Flag description: three equal horizontal bands of red (top), yellow,
and green with a large black five-pointed star centered in the
yellow band; uses the popular pan-African colors of Ethiopia;
similar to the flag of Bolivia, which has a coat of arms centered in
the yellow band



Ghana    Economy

Economy - overview: Well endowed with natural resources, Ghana has
twice the per capita output of the poorer countries in West Africa.
Even so, Ghana remains heavily dependent on international financial
and technical assistance. Gold, timber, and cocoa production are
major sources of foreign exchange. The domestic economy continues to
revolve around subsistence agriculture, which accounts for 36% of
GDP and employs 60% of the work force, mainly small landholders. In
1995-97, Ghana made mixed progress under a three-year structural
adjustment program in cooperation with the IMF. On the minus side,
public sector wage increases and regional peacekeeping commitments
have led to continued inflationary deficit financing, depreciation
of the cedi, and rising public discontent with Ghana's austerity
measures. Political uncertainty and a depressed cocoa market led to
disappointing growth in 2000. A rebound in the cocoa market should
push growth over 4% in 2001-02.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $37.4 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 3% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $1,900 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  36%

industry:  25%

services:  39% (2000 est.)

Population below poverty line: 31.4% (1992 est.)

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:
3.6%

highest 10%:  26.1% (1997)

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 22.8% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 9 million (2000 est.)

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture 60%, industry 15%, services
25% (1999 est.)

Unemployment rate: 20% (1997 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $1.39 billion

expenditures:  $1.47 billion, including capital expenditures of $370
million (1996 est.)

Industries: mining, lumbering, light manufacturing, aluminum
smelting, food processing

Industrial production growth rate: 4.2% (1996 est.)

Electricity - production: 5.466 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  26.82%

hydro:  73.18%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 5.573 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 400 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 890 million kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: cocoa, rice, coffee, cassava (tapioca),
peanuts, corn, shea nuts, bananas; timber

Exports: $1.6 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Exports - commodities: gold, cocoa, timber, tuna, bauxite, aluminum,
manganese ore, diamonds

Exports - partners: Togo, UK, Italy, Netherlands, Germany, US,
France (1998)

Imports: $2.2 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Imports - commodities: capital equipment, petroleum, foodstuffs

Imports - partners: UK, Nigeria, US, Germany, Italy, Spain (1998)

Debt - external: $7 billion (1999 est.)

Economic aid - recipient: $477.3 million (1995)

Currency: cedi (GHC)

Currency code: GHC

Exchange rates: cedis per US dollar - 6,895.77 (January 2001),
5,321.68 (2000), 2,647.32 (1999), 2,314.15 (1998), 2,050.17 (1997),
1,637.23 (1996)

Fiscal year: calendar year



Ghana    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 200,000 (1998)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 30,000 (yearend 1998)

Telephone system: general assessment:  poor to fair system; Internet
accessible; many rural communities not yet connected; expansion of
services is underway

domestic:  primarily microwave radio relay; wireless local loop has
been installed

international:  satellite earth stations - 4 Intelsat (Atlantic
Ocean); microwave radio relay link to Panaftel system connects Ghana
to its neighbors

Radio broadcast stations: AM 0, FM 18, shortwave 3 (1999)

Radios: 4.4 million (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 11 (1999)

Televisions: 1.73 million (1997)

Internet country code: .gh

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 1 (2000)

Internet users: 20,000 (2000)



Ghana    Transportation

Railways: total:  953 km (undergoing major rehabilitation)

narrow gauge:  953 km 1.067-m gauge (32 km double track) (1997 est.)

Highways: total:  39,409 km

paved:  11,653 km (including 30 km of expressways)

unpaved:  27,756 km (1997)

Waterways: 1,293 km

note:  Volta, Ankobra, and Tano Rivers provide 168 km of perennial
navigation for launches and lighters; Lake Volta provides 1,125 km
of arterial and feeder waterways

Pipelines: 0 km

Ports and harbors: Takoradi, Tema

Merchant marine: total:  6 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 13,484
GRT/18,583 DWT

ships by type:  petroleum tanker 2, refrigerated cargo 4 (2000 est.)

Airports: 12 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  6

2,438 to 3,047 m:  1

1,524 to 2,437 m:  3

914 to 1,523 m:  2 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  6

1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

914 to 1,523 m:  3

under 914 m:  2 (2000 est.)



Ghana    Military

Military branches: Army, Navy, Air Force, National Police Force,
Palace Guard, Civil Defense

Military manpower - military age: 18 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  4,890,483 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
2,713,584 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  213,237
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $53 million (FY99)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 0.7% (FY99)



Ghana    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

Illicit drugs: illicit producer of cannabis for the international
drug trade; transit hub for Southwest and Southeast Asian heroin and
South American cocaine destined for Europe and the US

======================================================================

@Gibraltar





Gibraltar    Introduction

Background: Strategically important, Gibraltar was ceded to Great
Britain by Spain in the 1713 Treaty of Utrecht; the British garrison
was formally declared a colony in 1830. In a 1967 referendum,
Gibraltarians ignored Spanish pressure and voted overwhelmingly to
remain a British dependency.



Gibraltar    Geography

Location: Southwestern Europe, bordering the Strait of Gibraltar,
which links the Mediterranean Sea and the North Atlantic Ocean, on
the southern coast of Spain

Geographic coordinates: 36 11 N, 5 22 W

Map references: Europe

Area: total:  6.5 sq km

land:  6.5 sq km

water:  0 sq km

Area - comparative: about 11 times the size of The Mall in
Washington, DC

Land boundaries: total:  1.2 km

border countries:  Spain 1.2 km

Coastline: 12 km

Maritime claims: territorial sea:  3 NM

Climate: Mediterranean with mild winters and warm summers

Terrain: a narrow coastal lowland borders the Rock of Gibraltar

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Mediterranean Sea 0 m

highest point:  Rock of Gibraltar 426 m

Natural resources: NEGL

Land use: arable land:  0%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  0%

forests and woodland:  0%

other:  100% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: NA sq km

Natural hazards: NA

Environment - current issues: limited natural freshwater resources;
large concrete or natural rock water catchments collect rainwater

Geography - note: strategic location on Strait of Gibraltar that
links the North Atlantic Ocean and Mediterranean Sea



Gibraltar    People

Population: 27,649 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  18.73% (male 2,652; female 2,528)

15-64 years:  66.33% (male 9,473; female 8,866)

65 years and over:  14.94% (male 1,733; female 2,397) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 0.24% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 11.25 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 8.82 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: NEGL migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1.07 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.72 male(s)/female

total population:  1 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 5.49 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  79.09 years

male:  76.23 years

female:  82.1 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 1.64 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: NA%

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: NA

HIV/AIDS - deaths: NA

Nationality: noun:  Gibraltarian(s)

adjective:  Gibraltar

Ethnic groups: Spanish, Italian, English, Maltese, Portuguese

Religions: Roman Catholic 76.9%, Church of England 6.9%, Muslim
6.9%, Jewish 2.3%, none or other 7% (1991)

Languages: English (used in schools and for official purposes),
Spanish, Italian, Portuguese, Russian

Literacy: definition:  NA

total population:  above 80%

male:  NA%

female:  NA%



Gibraltar    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  none

conventional short form:  Gibraltar

Dependency status: overseas territory of the UK

Government type: NA

Capital: Gibraltar

Administrative divisions: none (overseas territory of the UK)

Independence: none (overseas territory of the UK)

National holiday: Commonwealth Day, second Monday of March

Constitution: 30 May 1969

Legal system: English law

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal, plus other UK subjects who
have been residents six months or more

Executive branch: chief of state:  Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6
February 1952), represented by Governor and Commander-in-Chief David
DURIE (since 5 April 2000); note - DURIE was appointed in February
2000 but took office in April 2000

head of government:  Chief Minister Peter CARUANA (since 17 May 1996)

cabinet:  Council of Ministers appointed from among the 15 elected
members of the House of Assembly by the governor in consultation
with the chief minister; note - there is also a Gibraltar Council
that advises the governor

elections:  none; the monarch is hereditary; governor appointed by
the monarch; chief minister appointed by the governor

Legislative branch: unicameral House of Assembly (18 seats - 15
elected by popular vote, one appointed for the Speaker, and two ex
officio members; members serve four-year terms)

elections:  last held 10 February 2000 (next to be held NA 2004)

election results:  percent of vote by party - GSD 58%, GSLP 41%;
seats by party - GSD 8, GSLP 7

Judicial branch: Supreme Court; Court of Appeal

Political parties and leaders: Gibraltar Social Democrats or GSD
[Peter CARUANA]; Gibraltar Socialist Labor Party or GSLP [Joseph
John BOSSANO]

Political pressure groups and leaders: Chamber of Commerce;
Gibraltar Representatives Organization; Housewives Association

International organization participation: Interpol (subbureau)

Diplomatic representation in the US: none (overseas territory of the
UK)

Diplomatic representation from the US: none (overseas territory of
the UK)

Flag description: two horizontal bands of white (top, double width)
and red with a three-towered red castle in the center of the white
band; hanging from the castle gate is a gold key centered in the red
band



Gibraltar    Economy

Economy - overview: Gibraltar benefits from an extensive shipping
trade, offshore banking, and its position as an international
conference center. The British military presence has been sharply
reduced and now contributes about 11% to the local economy. The
financial sector accounts for 20% of GDP; tourism (almost 6 million
visitors in 1998), shipping services fees, and duties on consumer
goods also generate revenue. In recent years, Gibraltar has seen
major structural change from a public to a private sector economy,
but changes in government spending still have a major impact on the
level of employment.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $500 million (1997 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: NA%

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $17,500 (1997 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  NA%

industry:  NA%

services:  NA%

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 1.5% (1998)

Labor force: 14,800 (including non-Gibraltar laborers)

Labor force - by occupation: services 60%, industry 40%, agriculture
NEGL%

Unemployment rate: 13.5% (1996)

Budget: revenues:  $307 million

expenditures:  $284 million, including capital expenditures of $NA
(FY00/01 est.)

Industries: tourism, banking and finance, ship-building and
repairing; support to large UK naval and air bases; tobacco, mineral
water, beer, canned fish

Industrial production growth rate: NA%

Electricity - production: 95 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  100%

hydro:  0%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 88.4 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: none

Exports: $81.1 million (f.o.b., 1997)

Exports - commodities: (principally reexports) petroleum 51%,
manufactured goods 41%, other 8%

Exports - partners: UK, Morocco, Portugal, Netherlands, Spain, US,
Germany

Imports: $492 million (c.i.f., 1997)

Imports - commodities: fuels, manufactured goods, and foodstuffs

Imports - partners: UK, Spain, Japan, Netherlands

Debt - external: $NA

Economic aid - recipient: $NA

Currency: Gibraltar pound (GIP)

Currency code: GIP

Exchange rates: Gibraltar pounds per US dollar - 0.6764 (January
2001), 0.6596 (2000), 0.6180 (1999), 0.6037 (1998), 0.6106 (1997),
0.6403 (1996); note - the Gibraltar pound is at par with the British
pound

Fiscal year: 1 July - 30 June



Gibraltar    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 19,000 (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 1,620 (1997)

Telephone system: general assessment:  adequate, automatic domestic
system and adequate international facilities

domestic:  automatic exchange facilities

international:  radiotelephone; microwave radio relay; satellite
earth station - 1 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 1, FM 5, shortwave 0 (1998)

Radios: 37,000 (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 1 (plus three low-power repeaters)
(1997)

Televisions: 10,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .gi

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 2 (2000)

Internet users: NA



Gibraltar    Transportation

Railways: total:  NA km; 1.000-m gauge system in dockyard area only

Highways: total:  46.25 km

paved:  46.25 km

unpaved:  0 km (2001)

Waterways: none

Pipelines: 0 km

Ports and harbors: Gibraltar

Merchant marine: total:  49 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
669,056 GRT/1,003,809 DWT

ships by type:  bulk 1, cargo 15, chemical tanker 6, container 7,
multi-functional large-load carrier 3, passenger 2, petroleum tanker
14, roll on/roll off 1 (2000 est.)

Airports: 1 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  1

1,524 to 2,437 m:  1 (2000 est.)



Gibraltar    Military

Military branches: British Army, Royal Navy, Royal Air Force

Military - note: defense is the responsibility of the UK



Gibraltar    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: source of friction between Spain and the UK

======================================================================

@Glorioso Islands





Glorioso Islands    Introduction

Background: A French possession since 1892, the Glorioso Islands are
composed of two lushly vegetated islands (Ile Glorieuse and Ile du
Lys) and three rock islets. A military garrison operates a weather
and radio station on Ile Glorieuse.



Glorioso Islands    Geography

Location: Southern Africa, group of islands in the Indian Ocean,
northwest of Madagascar

Geographic coordinates: 11 30 S, 47 20 E

Map references: Africa

Area: total:  5 sq km

land:  5 sq km

water:  0 sq km

note:  includes Ile Glorieuse, Ile du Lys, Verte Rocks, Wreck Rock,
and South Rock

Area - comparative: about eight times the size of The Mall in
Washington, DC

Land boundaries: 0 km

Coastline: 35.2 km

Maritime claims: exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: tropical

Terrain: low and flat

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Indian Ocean 0 m

highest point:  unnamed location 12 m

Natural resources: guano, coconuts

Land use: arable land:  0%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  0%

forests and woodland:  0%

other:  100% (all lush vegetation and coconut palms)

Irrigated land: 0 sq km (1993)

Natural hazards: periodic cyclones

Environment - current issues: NA



Glorioso Islands    People

Population: no indigenous inhabitants

note:  there is a small French military garrison (July 2001 est.)



Glorioso Islands    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  none

conventional short form:  Glorioso Islands

local long form:  none

local short form:  Iles Glorieuses

Dependency status: possession of France; administered by a high
commissioner of the Republic, resident in Reunion

Legal system: the laws of France, where applicable, apply

Diplomatic representation in the US: none (possession of France)

Diplomatic representation from the US: none (possession of France)

Flag description: the flag of France is used



Glorioso Islands    Economy

Economy - overview: no economic activity



Glorioso Islands    Communications

Communications - note: 1 meteorological station



Glorioso Islands    Transportation

Waterways: none

Ports and harbors: none; offshore anchorage only

Airports: 1 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  1

914 to 1,523 m:  1 (2000 est.)



Glorioso Islands    Military

Military - note: defense is the responsibility of France



Glorioso Islands    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: claimed by Madagascar

======================================================================

@Greece




Greece    Introduction

Background: Greece achieved its independence from the Ottoman Empire
in 1829. During the second half of the 19th century and the first
half of the 20th century, it gradually added neighboring islands and
territories with Greek-speaking populations. Following the defeat of
communist rebels in 1949, Greece joined NATO in 1952. A military
dictatorship, which in 1967 suspended many political liberties and
forced the king to flee the country, lasted seven years. Democratic
elections in 1974 and a referendum created a parliamentary republic
and abolished the monarchy; Greece joined the European Community or
EC in 1981 (which became the EU in 1992).



Greece    Geography

Location: Southern Europe, bordering the Aegean Sea, Ionian Sea, and
the Mediterranean Sea, between Albania and Turkey

Geographic coordinates: 39 00 N, 22 00 E

Map references: Europe

Area: total:  131,940 sq km

land:  130,800 sq km

water:  1,140 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly smaller than Alabama

Land boundaries: total:  1,210 km

border countries:  Albania 282 km, Bulgaria 494 km, Turkey 206 km,
The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia 228 km

Coastline: 13,676 km

Maritime claims: continental shelf:  200-m depth or to the depth of
exploitation

territorial sea:  6 NM

Climate: temperate; mild, wet winters; hot, dry summers

Terrain: mostly mountains with ranges extending into the sea as
peninsulas or chains of islands

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Mediterranean Sea 0 m

highest point:  Mount Olympus 2,917 m

Natural resources: bauxite, lignite, magnesite, petroleum, marble,
hydropower potential

Land use: arable land:  19%

permanent crops:  8%

permanent pastures:  41%

forests and woodland:  20%

other:  12% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 13,140 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: severe earthquakes

Environment - current issues: air pollution; water pollution

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Air Pollution,
Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air Pollution-Sulphur 94,
Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic-Marine Living Resources,
Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species,
Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine
Dumping, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution,
Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands

signed, but not ratified:  Air Pollution-Persistent Organic
Pollutants, Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds, Antarctic
Treaty, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol

Geography - note: strategic location dominating the Aegean Sea and
southern approach to Turkish Straits; a peninsular country,
possessing an archipelago of about 2,000 islands



Greece    People

Population: 10,623,835 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  14.98% (male 820,219; female 771,466)

15-64 years:  67.3% (male 3,580,535; female 3,569,755)

65 years and over:  17.72% (male 834,234; female 1,047,626) (2001
est.)

Population growth rate: 0.21% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 9.83 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 9.73 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 1.96 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.07 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.06 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.8 male(s)/female

total population:  0.97 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 6.38 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  78.59 years

male:  76.03 years

female:  81.32 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 1.33 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 0.16% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 8,000 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: less than 100 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Greek(s)

adjective:  Greek

Ethnic groups: Greek 98%, other 2%

note:  the Greek Government states there are no ethnic divisions in
Greece

Religions: Greek Orthodox 98%, Muslim 1.3%, other 0.7%

Languages: Greek 99% (official), English, French

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  95%

male:  98%

female:  93% (1991 est.)



Greece    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Hellenic Republic

conventional short form:  Greece

local long form:  Elliniki Dhimokratia

local short form:  Ellas or Ellada

former:  Kingdom of Greece

Government type: parliamentary republic; monarchy rejected by
referendum 8 December 1974

Capital: Athens

Administrative divisions: 51 prefectures (nomoi, singular -
nomos)and 1 autonomous region*; Ayion Oros* (Mt. Athos), Aitolia kai
Akarnania, Akhaia, Argolis, Arkadhia, Arta, Attiki, Dhodhekanisos,
Drama, Evritania, Evros, Evvoia, Florina, Fokis, Fthiotis, Grevena,
Ilia, Imathia, Ioannina, Irakleion, Kardhitsa, Kastoria, Kavala,
Kefallinia, Kerkyra, Khalkidhiki, Khania, Khios, Kikladhes, Kilkis,
Korinthia, Kozani, Lakonia, Larisa, Lasithi, Lesvos, Levkas,
Magnisia, Messinia, Pella, Pieria, Preveza, Rethimni, Rodhopi,
Samos, Serrai, Thesprotia, Thessaloniki, Trikala, Voiotia, Xanthi,
Zakinthos

Independence: 1829 (from the Ottoman Empire)

National holiday: Independence Day, 25 March (1821)

Constitution: 11 June 1975; amended March 1986

Legal system: based on codified Roman law; judiciary divided into
civil, criminal, and administrative courts

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal and compulsory

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Konstandinos (Kostis)
STEPHANOPOULOS (since 10 March 1995)

head of government:  Prime Minister Konstandinos SIMITIS (since 19
January 1996)

cabinet:  Cabinet appointed by the president on the recommendation
of the prime minister

elections:  president elected by Parliament for a five-year term;
election last held 8 February 2000 (next to be held by NA March
2005); prime minister appointed by the president

election results:  Konstandinos STEPHANOPOULOS reelected president;
percent of Parliament vote - 90%

Legislative branch: unicameral Parliament or Vouli ton Ellinon (300
seats; members are elected by direct popular vote to serve four-year
terms)

elections:  elections last held 9 April 2000 (next to be held by NA
April 2004)

election results:  percent of vote by party - PASOK 43.8%, ND 42.7%,
KKE 5.5%, Coalition of the Left and Progress 3.2%; seats by party -
PASOK 158, ND 125, KKE 11, Coalition of the Left and Progress 6

Judicial branch: Supreme Judicial Court; Special Supreme Tribunal;
all judges appointed for life by the president after consultation
with a judicial council

Political parties and leaders: Coalition of the Left and Progress
(Synaspismos) [Nikolaos KONSTANDOPOULOS]; Communist Party of Greece
or KKE [Aleka PAPARIGA]; New Democracy or ND (conservative)
[Konstandinos KARAMANLIS]; Panhellenic Socialist Movement or PASOK
[Konstandinos SIMITIS]

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: Australia Group, BIS,
BSEC, CCC, CE, CERN, EAPC, EBRD, ECE, EIB, EMU, EU, FAO, G- 6, IAEA,
IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IEA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO,
IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO, ITU, MINURSO,
NAM (guest), NATO, NEA, NSG, OAS (observer), OECD, OPCW, OSCE, PCA,
UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNIKOM, UNMIBH, UNOMIG, UPU, WEU,
WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO, ZC

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Alexandros PHILON

chancery:  2221 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone:  [1] (202) 939-5800

FAX:  [1] (202) 939-5824

consulate(s) general:  Boston, Chicago, Los Angeles, New York, and
San Francisco

consulate(s):  Atlanta, Houston, and New Orleans

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
R. Nicholas BURNS

embassy:  91 Vasilissis Sophias Boulevard, 10160 Athens

mailing address:  PSC 108, APO AE 09842-0108

telephone:  [30] (1) 721-2951

FAX:  [30] (1) 645-6282

consulate(s) general:  Thessaloniki

Flag description: nine equal horizontal stripes of blue alternating
with white; there is a blue square in the upper hoist-side corner
bearing a white cross; the cross symbolizes Greek Orthodoxy, the
established religion of the country



Greece    Economy

Economy - overview: Greece has a mixed capitalist economy with the
public sector accounting for about half of GDP. Tourism is a key
industry, providing a large portion of GDP and foreign exchange
earnings. Greece is a major beneficiary of EU aid, equal to about 4%
of GDP. The economy has improved steadily over the last few years,
as the government has tightened policy in the run-up to Greece's
entry into the EU's Economic and Monetary Union (EMU) on 1 January
2001. In particular, Greece has cut its budget deficit to below 1%
of GDP and tightened monetary policy, with the result that inflation
fell from 20% in 1990 to 3.1% in 2000. Major challenges remaining
include the reduction of unemployment and further restructuring of
the economy, including the privatization of some leading state
enterprises. Growth, 3.8% in 2000, may fall off to 3%-3.5% in 2001.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $181.9 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 3.8% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $17,200 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  8.3%

industry:  27.3%

services:  64.4% (1998)

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  3%

highest 10%:  25.3% (1993 est.)

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 3.1% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 4.32 million (1999 est.)

Labor force - by occupation: industry 21%, agriculture 20%, services
59% (2000 est.)

Unemployment rate: 11.3% (2000 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $45 billion

expenditures:  $47.6 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
(1998 est.)

Industries: tourism; food and tobacco processing, textiles;
chemicals, metal products; mining, petroleum

Industrial production growth rate: 7% (2000 est.)

Electricity - production: 46.432 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  89.6%

hydro:  9.72%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0.68% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 43.343 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 1.65 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 1.811 billion kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: wheat, corn, barley, sugar beets, olives,
tomatoes, wine, tobacco, potatoes; beef, dairy products

Exports: $15.8 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Exports - commodities: manufactured goods, food and beverages,
petroleum products

Exports - partners: EU 49% (Germany 15%, Italy 13%, UK 6%), US 6%
(1999)

Imports: $33.9 billion (c.i.f., 2000)

Imports - commodities: manufactured goods, foodstuffs, fuels,
chemicals

Imports - partners: EU 66% (Italy 15%, Germany 15%, France 9%, UK
6%) (1999)

Debt - external: $57 billion (2000 est.)

Economic aid - recipient: $5.4 billion from EU (1997 est.)

Currency: drachma (GRD); euro (EUR)

note:  on 1 January 1999, the EU introduced the euro as a common
currency that is now being used by financial institutions in Greece
(which entered the European Monetary Union on 1 January 2001) at a
fixed rate of 340.750 drachmae per euro and will replace the local
currency for all transactions in 2002

Currency code: GRD; EUR

Exchange rates: drachmae per US dollar - 380.21 (December 2000),
365.40 (2000), 305.65 (1999), 295.53 (1998), 273.06 (1997), 240.71
(1996)

Fiscal year: calendar year



Greece    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 5.431 million (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 937,700 (1997)

Telephone system: general assessment:  adequate, modern networks
reach all areas; good mobile telephone and international service

domestic:  microwave radio relay trunk system; extensive open wire
connections; submarine cable to offshore islands

international:  tropospheric scatter; 8 submarine cables; satellite
earth stations - 2 Intelsat (1 Atlantic Ocean and 1 Indian Ocean), 1
Eutelsat, and 1 Inmarsat (Indian Ocean region)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 26, FM 88, shortwave 4 (1998)

Radios: 5.02 million (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 36 (plus 1,341 low-power repeaters);
also two stations in the US Armed Forces Radio and Television
Service (1995)

Televisions: 2.54 million (1997)

Internet country code: .gr

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 27 (2000)

Internet users: 1.33 million (1999)



Greece    Transportation

Railways: total:  2,548 km

standard gauge:  1,565 km 1.435-m gauge (36 km electrified; 23 km
double track)

narrow gauge:  961 km 1.000-m gauge; 22 km 0.750-m gauge (a
rack-type railway for steep grades)

Highways: total:  117,000 km

paved:  107,406 km (including 470 km of expressways)

unpaved:  9,594 km (1996)

Waterways: 80 km

note:  system consists of three coastal canals including the Corinth
Canal (6 km) which crosses the Isthmus of Corinth connecting the
Gulf of Corinth with the Saronic Gulf and shortens the sea voyage
from the Adriatic to Peiraiefs (Piraeus) by 325 km; there are also
three unconnected rivers

Pipelines: crude oil 26 km; petroleum products 547 km

Ports and harbors: Alexandroupolis, Elefsis, Irakleion (Crete),
Kavala, Kerkyra, Chalkis, Igoumenitsa, Lavrion, Patrai, Peiraiefs
(Piraeus), Thessaloniki, Volos

Merchant marine: total:  780 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
25,564,988 GRT/44,761,916 DWT

ships by type:  bulk 272, cargo 55, chemical tanker 22, combination
bulk 5, combination ore/oil 6, container 51, liquefied gas 5,
multi-functional large-load carrier 1, passenger 14, passenger/cargo
2, petroleum tanker 255, refrigerated cargo 3, roll on/roll off 20,
short-sea passenger 63, specialized tanker 5, vehicle carrier 1

note:  includes some foreign-owned ships registered here as a flag
of convenience: South Korea 1, UK 4 (2000 est.)

Airports: 81 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  65

over 3,047 m:  6

2,438 to 3,047 m:  15

1,524 to 2,437 m:  19

914 to 1,523 m:  16

under 914 m:  9 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  16

over 3,047 m:  1

1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

914 to 1,523 m:  4

under 914 m:  10 (2000 est.)

Heliports: 2 (2000 est.)



Greece    Military

Military branches: Hellenic Army, Hellenic Navy, Hellenic Air Force,
National Guard, Police

Military manpower - military age: 21 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  2,673,539 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
2,040,227 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  77,976
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $6.12 billion (FY99/00 est.)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 4.91% (FY99/00 est.)



Greece    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: complex maritime, air, and territorial
disputes with Turkey in Aegean Sea; Cyprus question with Turkey;
dispute with The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia over its name

Illicit drugs: a gateway to Europe for traffickers smuggling
cannabis and heroin from the Middle East and Southwest Asia to the
West and precursor chemicals to the East; some South American
cocaine transits or is consumed in Greece

======================================================================

@Greenland





Greenland    Introduction

Background: The world's largest island, about 84% ice-capped,
Greenland was granted self-government in 1978 by the Danish
parliament. The law went into effect the following year. Denmark
continues to exercise control of Greenland's foreign affairs.



Greenland    Geography

Location: Northern North America, island between the Arctic Ocean
and the North Atlantic Ocean, northeast of Canada

Geographic coordinates: 72 00 N, 40 00 W

Map references: Arctic Region

Area: total:  2,175,600 sq km

land:  2,175,600 sq km (341,700 sq km ice-free, 1,833,900 sq km
ice-covered) (est.)

Area - comparative: slightly more than three times the size of Texas

Land boundaries: 0 km

Coastline: 44,087 km

Maritime claims: continental shelf:  200 NM or agreed boundaries or
median line

exclusive fishing zone:  200 NM or agreed boundaries or median line

territorial sea:  3 NM

Climate: arctic to subarctic; cool summers, cold winters

Terrain: flat to gradually sloping icecap covers all but a narrow,
mountainous, barren, rocky coast

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Atlantic Ocean 0 m

highest point:  Gunnbjorn 3,700 m

Natural resources: zinc, lead, iron ore, coal, molybdenum, gold,
platinum, uranium, fish, seals, whales, hydropower, possible oil and
gas

Land use: arable land:  0%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  1%

forests and woodland:  0%

other:  99% (1998 est.)

Irrigated land: NA sq km

Natural hazards: continuous permafrost over northern two-thirds of
the island

Environment - current issues: protection of the arctic environment;
preservation of the Inuit traditional way of life, including whaling
and seal hunting

Geography - note: dominates North Atlantic Ocean between North
America and Europe; sparse population confined to small settlements
along coast, but close to one-quarter of the population lives in the
capital, Nuuk; world's second largest ice cap



Greenland    People

Population: 56,352 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  26.69% (male 7,649; female 7,392)

15-64 years:  67.87% (male 20,868; female 17,376)

65 years and over:  5.44% (male 1,385; female 1,682) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 0.06% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 16.52 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 7.58 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: -8.38 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.02 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.03 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1.2 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.82 male(s)/female

total population:  1.13 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 17.77 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  68.37 years

male:  64.82 years

female:  72.01 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 2.44 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: NA%

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 100 (1999)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: NA

Nationality: noun:  Greenlander(s)

adjective:  Greenlandic

Ethnic groups: Greenlander 88% (Inuit and Greenland-born whites),
Danish and others 12% (January 2000)

Religions: Evangelical Lutheran

Languages: Greenlandic (East Inuit), Danish, English

Literacy: definition:  NA

total population:  NA%

male:  NA%

female:  NA%

note:  similar to Denmark proper



Greenland    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  none

conventional short form:  Greenland

local long form:  none

local short form:  Kalaallit Nunaat

Dependency status: part of the Kingdom of Denmark; self-governing
overseas administrative division of Denmark since 1979

Government type: parliamentary democracy within a constitutional
monarchy

Capital: Nuuk (Godthab)

Administrative divisions: 3 districts (landsdele); Avannaa
(Nordgronland), Tunu (Ostgronland), Kitaa (Vestgronland)

note:  there are 18 municipalities in Greenland

Independence: none (part of the Kingdom of Denmark; self-governing
overseas administrative division of Denmark since 1979)

note:  foreign affairs is the responsibility of Denmark, but
Greenland actively participates in international agreements relating
to Greenland

National holiday: June 21 (longest day)

Constitution: 5 June 1953 (Danish constitution)

Legal system: Danish

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  Queen MARGRETHE II of Denmark
(since 14 January 1972), represented by High Commissioner Gunnar
MARTENS (since NA 1995)

head of government:  Prime Minister Jonathan MOTZFELDT (since 19
September 1997)

cabinet:  Home Rule Government is elected by the Parliament
(Landstinget) on the basis of the strength of parties

elections:  the monarch is hereditary; high commissioner appointed
by the monarch; prime minister is elected by Parliament (usually the
leader of the majority party); election last held 16 February 1999
(next to be held NA February 2003)

election results:  Jonathan MOTZFELDT reelected prime minister
following the 16 February 1999 elections; percent of parliamentary
vote - 57.3%

note:  government coalition - Siumut and Inuit Ataqatigiit (IA)

Legislative branch: unicameral Parliament or Landstinget (31 seats;
members are elected by popular vote on the basis of proportional
representation to serve four-year terms)

elections:  last held on 16 February 1999 (next to be held by NA
February 2003)

election results:  percent of vote by party - Siumut 35.2%, Inuit
Ataqatigiit 22.1%, Atassut Party 25.2%, Candidate's League 12.3%,
independent 5.2%; seats by party - Siumut 11, Atassut 8, Inuit
Ataqatigiit 7, Candidate List 4, independent 1

note:  two representatives were elected to the Danish Parliament or
Folketing on 11 March 1998 (next to be held by not later than March
2002); percent of vote by party - Siumut 35.6%, Atassut 35.2%; seats
by party - Siumut 1, Atassut 1; Greenlandic representatives are
affiliated with Danish political parties (Siamut with Social
Democratic Party and Atassut with Liberal Party)

Judicial branch: High Court or Landsret (appeals can be made to the
Ostre Landsret or Eastern Division of the High Court or Supreme
Court in Copenhagen)

Political parties and leaders: Akulliit Party [Bjarne KREUTZMANN];
Atassut Party (Solidarity, a conservative party favoring continuing
close relations with Denmark) [Daniel SKIFTE]; Inuit Ataqatigiit or
IA (Eskimo Brotherhood, a leftist party favoring complete
independence from Denmark rather than home rule) [Josef MOTZFELDT];
Issituup (Polar Party) [Nicolai HEINRICH]; Kattusseqatigiit
(Candidate List, an independent right-of-center party with no
official platform [leader NA]; Siumut (Forward Party, a social
democratic party advocating more distinct Greenlandic identity and
greater autonomy from Denmark) [Jonathan MOTZFELDT]

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: ICC, NC, NIB

Diplomatic representation in the US: none (self-governing overseas
administrative division of Denmark)

Diplomatic representation from the US: none (self-governing overseas
administrative division of Denmark)

Flag description: two equal horizontal bands of white (top) and red
with a large disk slightly to the hoist side of center - the top
half of the disk is red, the bottom half is white



Greenland    Economy

Economy - overview: The economy remains critically dependent on
exports of fish and substantial support from the Danish Government,
which supplies about half of government revenues. The public sector,
including publicly owned enterprises and the municipalities, plays
the dominant role in the economy. Despite several interesting
hydrocarbon and minerals exploration activities, it will take
several years before production can materialize. Tourism is the only
sector offering any near-term potential, and even this is limited
due to a short season and high costs.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $1.1 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: NA%

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $20,000 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  NA%

industry:  NA%

services:  NA%

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 1.6% (1999 est.)

Labor force: 24,500 (1999 est.)

Unemployment rate: 7% (1999 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $646 million

expenditures:  $629 million, including capital expenditures of $85
million (1999)

Industries: fish processing (mainly shrimp and Greenland halibut),
handicrafts, furs, small shipyards

Industrial production growth rate: NA%

Electricity - production: 250 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  41%

hydro:  59%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0%

note:  Greenland is shifting its electricity production from fossil
fuel to hydroelectric power production (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 232.5 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: forage crops, garden and greenhouse
vegetables; sheep, reindeer; fish

Exports: $276 million (f.o.b., 1999)

Exports - commodities: fish and fish products 94%

Exports - partners: EU (mainly Denmark) 85%, Japan 8%, US 2% (1999)

Imports: $400 million (c.i.f., 1999)

Imports - commodities: machinery and transport equipment,
manufactured goods, food, petroleum products

Imports - partners: EU (mostly Denmark), Norway, US, Canada

Debt - external: $25 million (1999)

Economic aid - recipient: $380 million subsidy from Denmark (1999)

Currency: Danish krone (DKK)

Currency code: DKK

Exchange rates: Danish kroner per US dollar - 7.951 (January 2001),
8.083 (2000), 6.976 (1999), 6.701 (1998), 6.604 (1997), 5.799 (1996)

Fiscal year: calendar year



Greenland    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 25,617 (end 1999)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 12,676 (end 1999)

Telephone system: general assessment:  adequate domestic and
international service provided by satellite, cables and microwave
radio relay; totally digitalized in 1995

domestic:  microwave radio relay and satellite

international:  satellite earth stations - 12 Intelsat, 1 Eutelsat,
2 Americom GE-2 (all Atlantic Ocean)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 5, FM 12, shortwave 0 (1998)

Radios: 30,000 (1998 est.)

Television broadcast stations: 1 publicly-owned station, some local
low-power stations, and three AFRTS (US Air Force) stations (1997)

Televisions: 30,000 (1998 est.)

Internet country code: .gl

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 1 (2000)

Internet users: 4,008 (1999)



Greenland    Transportation

Railways: 0 km

Highways: total:  150 km

paved:  60 km

unpaved:  90 km

Waterways: none

Ports and harbors: Aasiaat (Egedesminde), Ilulissat (Jakobshavn),
Kangerlussuaq, Nanortalik, Narsarsuaq, Nuuk (Godthab), Qaqortoq
(Julianehab), Sisimiut (Holsteinsborg), Tasiilaq (March 2001)

Merchant marine: total:  2 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 3,289
GRT/1,500 DWT

ships by type:  cargo 1, passenger 1 (2000 est.)

Airports: 13 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  8

over 3,047 m:  1

2,438 to 3,047 m:  1

1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

914 to 1,523 m:  1

under 914 m:  4 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  5

1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

914 to 1,523 m:  3

under 914 m:  1 (2000 est.)



Greenland    Military

Military - note: defense is the responsibility of Denmark



Greenland    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

======================================================================

@Grenada




Grenada    Introduction

Background: One of the smallest independent countries in the western
hemisphere, Grenada was seized by a Marxist military council on 19
October 1983. Six days later the island was invaded by US forces and
those of six other Caribbean nations, which quickly captured the
ringleaders and their hundreds of Cuban advisers. Free elections
were reinstituted the following year.



Grenada    Geography

Location: Caribbean, island between the Caribbean Sea and Atlantic
Ocean, north of Trinidad and Tobago

Geographic coordinates: 12 07 N, 61 40 W

Map references: Central America and the Caribbean

Area: total:  340 sq km

land:  340 sq km

water:  0 sq km

Area - comparative: twice the size of Washington, DC

Land boundaries: 0 km

Coastline: 121 km

Maritime claims: exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: tropical; tempered by northeast trade winds

Terrain: volcanic in origin with central mountains

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Caribbean Sea 0 m

highest point:  Mount Saint Catherine 840 m

Natural resources: timber, tropical fruit, deepwater harbors

Land use: arable land:  15%

permanent crops:  18%

permanent pastures:  3%

forests and woodland:  9%

other:  55% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: NA sq km

Natural hazards: lies on edge of hurricane belt; hurricane season
lasts from June to November

Environment - current issues: NA

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species, Law of the Sea,
Ozone Layer Protection, Whaling

signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Geography - note: the administration of the islands of the
Grenadines group is divided between Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
and Grenada



Grenada    People

Population: 89,227 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  37.05% (male 16,739; female 16,318)

15-64 years:  59.03% (male 27,850; female 24,820)

65 years and over:  3.92% (male 1,592; female 1,908) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: -0.06% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 23.12 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 7.82 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: -15.86 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.03 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1.12 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.83 male(s)/female

total population:  1.07 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 14.63 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  64.52 years

male:  62.74 years

female:  66.31 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 2.54 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: NA%

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: NA

HIV/AIDS - deaths: NA

Nationality: noun:  Grenadian(s)

adjective:  Grenadian

Ethnic groups: black 82% some South Asians (East Indians) and
Europeans, trace Arawak/Carib Amerindian

Religions: Roman Catholic 53%, Anglican 13.8%, other Protestant 33.2%

Languages: English (official), French patois

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  98%

male:  98%

female:  98% (1970 est.)



Grenada    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  none

conventional short form:  Grenada

Government type: constitutional monarchy with Westminster-style
parliament

Capital: Saint George's

Administrative divisions: 6 parishes and 1 dependency*; Carriacou
and Petit Martinique*, Saint Andrew, Saint David, Saint George,
Saint John, Saint Mark, Saint Patrick

Independence: 7 February 1974 (from UK)

National holiday: Independence Day, 7 February (1974)

Constitution: 19 December 1973

Legal system: based on English common law

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6
February 1952), represented by Governor General Daniel WILLIAMS
(since 9 August 1996)

head of government:  Prime Minister Keith MITCHELL (since 22 June
1995)

cabinet:  Cabinet appointed by the governor general on the advice of
the prime minister

elections:  none; the monarch is hereditary; governor general
appointed by the monarch; prime minister appointed by the governor
general from among the members of the House of Assembly

Legislative branch: bicameral Parliament consists of the Senate (a
13-member body, 10 appointed by the government and three by the
leader of the opposition) and the House of Representatives (15
seats; members are elected by popular vote to serve five-year terms)

elections:  last held on 18 January 1999 (next to be held by NA
October 2004)

election results:  House of Representatives - percent of vote by
party - NA%; seats by party - NNP 14, GULP 1

Judicial branch: West Indies Associate States Supreme Court (an
associate judge resides in Grenada)

Political parties and leaders: Grenada United Labor Party or GULP
[Herbert PREUDHOMME]; National Democratic Congress or NDC [leader
vacant]; New National Party or NNP [George McGUIRE]

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: ACP, C, Caricom, CDB,
ECLAC, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS,
ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol, IOC, ISO (subscriber), ITU, LAES, NAM, OAS,
OECS, OPANAL, OPCW, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WHO, WIPO, WTrO

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Denis G. ANTOINE

chancery:  1701 New Hampshire Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20009

telephone:  [1] (202) 265-2561

consulate(s) general:  New York

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  the
ambassador to Barbados is accredited to Grenada

embassy:  Point Salines, Saint George's

mailing address:  P. O. Box 54, Saint George's, Grenada, West Indies

telephone:  [1] (473) 444-1173 through 1176

FAX:  [1] (473) 444-4820

Flag description: a rectangle divided diagonally into yellow
triangles (top and bottom) and green triangles (hoist side and outer
side), with a red border around the flag; there are seven yellow,
five-pointed stars with three centered in the top red border, three
centered in the bottom red border, and one on a red disk
superimposed at the center of the flag; there is also a symbolic
nutmeg pod on the hoist-side triangle (Grenada is the world's
second-largest producer of nutmeg, after Indonesia); the seven stars
represent the seven administrative divisions



Grenada    Economy

Economy - overview: In this island economy progress in fiscal
reforms and prudent macroeconomic management have kept annual growth
steady since 1998. The increase in economic activity has been led by
construction and trade. Tourist facilities are being expanded;
tourism is the leading foreign exchange earner. Major short-term
concerns are the rising fiscal deficit and the deterioration in the
external account balance. Grenada shares a common central bank and a
common currency with seven other members of the Organization of
Eastern Caribbean States (OECS).

GDP: purchasing power parity - $394 million (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 7% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $4,400 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  9.7%

industry:  15%

services:  75.3% (1996 est.)

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 2.5% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 42,300 (1996)

Labor force - by occupation: services 62%, agriculture 24%, industry
14% (1999 est.)

Unemployment rate: 15% (1997)

Budget: revenues:  $85.8 million

expenditures:  $102.1 million, including capital expenditures of $28
million (1997)

Industries: food and beverages, textiles, light assembly operations,
tourism, construction

Industrial production growth rate: 0.7% (1997 est.)

Electricity - production: 120 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  100%

hydro:  0%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 111.6 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: bananas, cocoa, nutmeg, mace, citrus,
avocados, root crops, sugarcane, corn, vegetables

Exports: $62.3 million (2000 est.)

Exports - commodities: bananas, cocoa, nutmeg, fruit and vegetables,
clothing, mace

Exports - partners: Caricom 32.3%, UK 20%, US 13%, Netherlands 8.8%
(1991)

Imports: $217.5 million (2000 est.)

Imports - commodities: food, manufactured goods, machinery,
chemicals, fuel (1989)

Imports - partners: US 31.2%, Caricom 23.6%, UK 13.8%, Japan 7.1%
(1991)

Debt - external: $182.8 million (1998)

Economic aid - recipient: $8.3 million (1995)

Currency: East Caribbean dollar (XCD)

Currency code: XCD

Exchange rates: East Caribbean dollars per US dollar - 2.7000 (fixed
rate since 1976)

Fiscal year: calendar year



Grenada    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 27,000 (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 976 (1997)

Telephone system: general assessment:  automatic, islandwide
telephone system

domestic:  interisland VHF and UHF radiotelephone links

international:  new SHF radiotelephone links to Trinidad and Tobago
and Saint Vincent; VHF and UHF radio links to Trinidad

Radio broadcast stations: AM 2, FM 1, shortwave 0 (1998)

Radios: 57,000 (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 2 (1997)

Televisions: 33,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .gd

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 14 (2000)

Internet users: 2,000 (2000)



Grenada    Transportation

Railways: 0 km

Highways: total:  1,040 km

paved:  638 km

unpaved:  402 km (1996)

Waterways: none

Ports and harbors: Grenville, Saint George's

Merchant marine: none (2000 est.)

Airports: 3 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  3

2,438 to 3,047 m:  1

1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

under 914 m:  1 (2000 est.)



Grenada    Military

Military branches: Royal Grenada Police Force (includes Special
Service Unit), Coast Guard

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $NA

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: NA%



Grenada    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

Illicit drugs: small-scale cannabis cultivation; lesser
transshipment point for marijuana and cocaine to US

======================================================================

@Guadeloupe





Guadeloupe    Introduction

Background: Guadeloupe has been a French possession since 1635. The
island of Saint-Martin is divided with the Netherlands (whose
southern portion is named Sint Maarten and is part of the
Netherlands Antilles).



Guadeloupe    Geography

Location: Caribbean, islands in the eastern Caribbean Sea, southeast
of Puerto Rico

Geographic coordinates: 16 15 N, 61 35 W

Map references: Central America and the Caribbean

Area: total:  1,780 sq km

land:  1,706 sq km

water:  74 sq km

note:  Guadeloupe is an archipelago of nine inhabited islands,
including Basse-Terre, Grande-Terre, Marie-Galante, La Desirade,
Iles des Saintes (2), Saint-Barthelemy, Iles de la Petite Terre, and
Saint-Martin (French part of the island of Saint Martin

Area - comparative: 10 times the size of Washington, DC

Land boundaries: total:  10.2 km

border countries:  Netherlands Antilles (Sint Maarten) 10.2 km

Coastline: 306 km

Maritime claims: exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: subtropical tempered by trade winds; moderately high
humidity

Terrain: Basse-Terre is volcanic in origin with interior mountains;
Grande-Terre is low limestone formation; most of the seven other
islands are volcanic in origin

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Caribbean Sea 0 m

highest point:  Soufriere 1,467 m

Natural resources: cultivable land, beaches and climate that foster
tourism

Land use: arable land:  14%

permanent crops:  4%

permanent pastures:  14%

forests and woodland:  39%

other:  29% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 30 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: hurricanes (June to October); Soufriere is an
active volcano

Environment - current issues: NA



Guadeloupe    People

Population: 431,170 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  24.99% (male 55,030; female 52,722)

15-64 years:  66.22% (male 141,294; female 144,232)

65 years and over:  8.79% (male 15,901; female 21,991) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 1.07% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 16.91 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 6.02 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: -0.15 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  0.98 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.72 male(s)/female

total population:  0.97 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 9.53 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  77.16 years

male:  74.01 years

female:  80.48 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 1.93 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: NA%

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: NA

HIV/AIDS - deaths: NA

Nationality: noun:  Guadeloupian(s)

adjective:  Guadeloupe

Ethnic groups: black or mulatto 90%, white 5%, East Indian,
Lebanese, Chinese less than 5%

Religions: Roman Catholic 95%, Hindu and pagan African 4%,
Protestant 1%

Languages: French (official) 99%, Creole patois

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  90%

male:  90%

female:  90% (1982 est.)



Guadeloupe    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Department of Guadeloupe

conventional short form:  Guadeloupe

local long form:  Departement de la Guadeloupe

local short form:  Guadeloupe

Dependency status: overseas department of France

Government type: NA

Capital: Basse-Terre

Administrative divisions: none (overseas department of France)

Independence: none (overseas department of France)

National holiday: Bastille Day, 14 July (1789)

Constitution: 28 September 1958 (French Constitution)

Legal system: French legal system

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Jacques CHIRAC of
France (since 17 May 1995), represented by Prefect Jean FEDINI
(since NA 1996)

head of government:  President of the General Council Marcellin
LUBETH (since NA March 1998); President of the Regional Council
Lucette MICHAUX-CHEVRY (since 22 March 1992)

cabinet:  NA

elections:  French president elected by popular vote for a
seven-year term; prefect appointed by the French president on the
advice of the French Ministry of Interior; the presidents of the
General and Regional Councils are elected by the members of those
councils

election results:  NA

Legislative branch: unicameral General Council or Conseil General
(42 seats; members are elected by popular vote to serve six-year
terms) and the unicameral Regional Council or Conseil Regional (41
seats; members are elected by popular vote to serve six-year terms)

elections:  General Council - last held 22 March 1998 (next to be
held by NA 2004); Regional Council - last held 15 March 1998 (next
to be held NA 2004)

election results:  General Council - percent of vote by party - NA%;
seats by party - diverse left parties 11, PS 8, RPR 8, PPDG 6,
diverse right parties 5, PCG 3, UDF 1; Regional Council - percent of
vote by party - RPR 48.03%, PS/PPDG/diverse left parties 24.49%, PCG
5.29%, diverse right parties 5.73%; seats by party - RPR 25,
PS/PPDG/diverse left parties 12, PCG 2, diverse right parties 2

note:  Guadeloupe elects two representatives to the French Senate;
elections last held NA September 1995 (next to be held NA September
2004); percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party - RPR 1, FGPS
1; Guadeloupe elects four representatives to the French National
Assembly; elections last held 25 May - 1 June 1997 (next to be held
NA 2002); percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party - FGPS 2,
RPR 1, PPDG 1

Judicial branch: Court of Appeal or Cour d'Appel with jurisdiction
over Guadeloupe, French Guiana, and Martinique

Political parties and leaders: Communist Party of Guadeloupe or PCG
[Christian CELESTE]; Progressive Democratic Party or PPDG [Henri
BANGOU]; Rally for the Republic or RPR [Aldo BLAISE]; Socialist
Party or PS [Georges LOUISOR]; Union for French Democracy or UDF
[Marcel ESDRAS]

Political pressure groups and leaders: Christian Movement for the
Liberation of Guadeloupe or KLPG; General Federation of Guadeloupe
Workers or CGT-G; General Union of Guadeloupe Workers or UGTG;
Movement for Independent Guadeloupe or MPGI

International organization participation: FZ, WCL, WFTU

Diplomatic representation in the US: none (overseas department of
France)

Diplomatic representation from the US: none (overseas department of
France)

Flag description: three horizontal bands, a narrow green band (top),
a wide red band, and a narrow green band; the green bands are
separated from the red band by two narrow white stripes; a gold
five-pointed star is centered in the red band toward the hoist side;
the flag of France is used for official occasions



Guadeloupe    Economy

Economy - overview: The economy depends on agriculture, tourism,
light industry, and services. It also depends on France for large
subsidies and imports. Tourism is a key industry, with most tourists
from the US; an increasingly large number of cruise ships visit the
islands. The traditional sugarcane crop is slowly being replaced by
other crops, such as bananas (which now supply about 50% of export
earnings), eggplant, and flowers. Other vegetables and root crops
are cultivated for local consumption, although Guadeloupe is still
dependent on imported food, mainly from France. Light industry
features sugar and rum production. Most manufactured goods and fuel
are imported. Unemployment is especially high among the young.
Hurricanes periodically devastate the economy.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $3.7 billion (1997 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: NA%

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $9,000 (1997 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  15%

industry:  17%

services:  68% (1997 est.)

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): NA

Labor force: 125,900 (1997)

Labor force - by occupation: NA

Unemployment rate: 27.8% (1998)

Budget: revenues:  $225 million

expenditures:  $390 million, including capital expenditures of $105
million (1996)

Industries: construction, cement, rum, sugar, tourism

Industrial production growth rate: NA%

Electricity - production: 1.3 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  100%

hydro:  0%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 1.209 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: bananas, sugarcane, tropical fruits and
vegetables; cattle, pigs, goats

Exports: $140 million (f.o.b., 1997)

Exports - commodities: bananas, sugar, rum

Exports - partners: France 60%, Martinique 18%, US 4% (1997)

Imports: $1.7 billion (c.i.f., 1997)

Imports - commodities: foodstuffs, fuels, vehicles, clothing and
other consumer goods, construction materials

Imports - partners: France 63%, Germany 4%, US 3%, Japan 2%,
Netherlands Antilles 2% (1997)

Debt - external: $NA

Economic aid - recipient: $NA; note - substantial annual French
subsidies

Currency: French franc (FRF); euro (EUR)

Currency code: FRF; EUR

Exchange rates: Euros per US dollar - 1.0659 (January 2001), 1.0854
(2000), 0.9386 (1999); French francs per US dollar - 5.8995 (1998),
5.8367 (1997), 5.1155 (1996)

Fiscal year: calendar year



Guadeloupe    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 171,000 (1996)

Telephones - mobile cellular: NA

Telephone system: general assessment:  domestic facilities inadequate

domestic:  NA

international:  satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (Atlantic
Ocean); microwave radio relay to Antigua and Barbuda, Dominica, and
Martinique

Radio broadcast stations: AM 1, FM 17, shortwave 0 (1998)

Radios: 113,000 (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 5 (plus several low-power repeaters)
(1997)

Televisions: 118,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .gp

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 3 (2000)

Internet users: 4,000 (2000)



Guadeloupe    Transportation

Railways: total:  NA km; privately owned, narrow-gauge plantation
lines

Highways: total:  2,560 km

paved:  965 km

unpaved:  1,595 km (1996)

Waterways: none

Ports and harbors: Basse-Terre, Gustavia (on Saint Barthelemy),
Marigot, Pointe-a-Pitre

Merchant marine: total:  1 ship (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 1,240
GRT/109 DWT

ships by type:  passenger 1 (2000 est.)

Airports: 9 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  8

over 3,047 m:  1

914 to 1,523 m:  2

under 914 m:  5 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  1

under 914 m:  1 (2000 est.)



Guadeloupe    Military

Military branches: French Forces, Gendarmerie

Military - note: defense is the responsibility of France



Guadeloupe    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

======================================================================

@Guam





Guam    Introduction

Background: Guam was ceded to the US by Spain in 1898. Captured by
the Japanese in 1941, it was retaken by the US three years later.
The military installation on the island is one of the most
strategically important US bases in the Pacific.



Guam    Geography

Location: Oceania, island in the North Pacific Ocean, about
three-quarters of the way from Hawaii to the Philippines

Geographic coordinates: 13 28 N, 144 47 E

Map references: Oceania

Area: total:  549 sq km

land:  549 sq km

water:  0 sq km

Area - comparative: three times the size of Washington, DC

Land boundaries: 0 km

Coastline: 125.5 km

Maritime claims: exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: tropical marine; generally warm and humid, moderated by
northeast trade winds; dry season from January to June, rainy season
from July to December; little seasonal temperature variation

Terrain: volcanic origin, surrounded by coral reefs; relatively flat
coralline limestone plateau (source of most fresh water), with steep
coastal cliffs and narrow coastal plains in north, low-rising hills
in center, mountains in south

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Pacific Ocean 0 m

highest point:  Mount Lamlam 406 m

Natural resources: fishing (largely undeveloped), tourism
(especially from Japan)

Land use: arable land:  11%

permanent crops:  11%

permanent pastures:  15%

forests and woodland:  18%

other:  45% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: NA sq km

Natural hazards: frequent squalls during rainy season; relatively
rare, but potentially very destructive typhoons (especially in
August)

Environment - current issues: extirpation of native bird population
by the rapid proliferation of the brown tree snake, an exotic species

Geography - note: largest and southernmost island in the Mariana
Islands archipelago; strategic location in western North Pacific
Ocean



Guam    People

Population: 157,557 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  35.07% (male 28,978; female 26,270)

15-64 years:  58.78% (male 48,704; female 43,902)

65 years and over:  6.15% (male 4,871; female 4,832) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 2.09% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 25.07 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 4.2 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.14 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.1 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1.11 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  1.01 male(s)/female

total population:  1.1 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 6.71 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  77.94 years

male:  75.66 years

female:  80.55 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 3.85 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: NA%

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: NA

HIV/AIDS - deaths: NA

Nationality: noun:  Guamanian(s)

adjective:  Guamanian

Ethnic groups: Chamorro 47%, Filipino 25%, white 10%, Chinese,
Japanese, Korean, and other 18%

Religions: Roman Catholic 85%, other 15% (1999 est.)

Languages: English, Chamorro, Japanese

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  99%

male:  99%

female:  99% (1990 est.)



Guam    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Territory of Guam

conventional short form:  Guam

Dependency status: organized, unincorporated territory of the US
with policy relations between Guam and the US under the jurisdiction
of the Office of Insular Affairs, US Department of the Interior

Government type: NA

Capital: Hagatna (Agana)

Administrative divisions: none (territory of the US)

Independence: none (territory of the US)

National holiday: Discovery Day, first Monday in March (1521)

Constitution: Organic Act of 1 August 1950

Legal system: modeled on US; US federal laws apply

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal; US citizens, but do not vote
in US presidential elections

Executive branch: chief of state:  President George W. BUSH of the
US (since 20 January 2001); Vice President Richard B. CHENEY (since
20 January 2001)

head of government:  Governor Carl GUTIERREZ (since 8 November 1994)
and Lieutenant Governor Madeleine BORDALLO (since 8 November 1994)

cabinet:  executive departments; heads appointed by the governor
with the consent of the Guam legislature

elections:  US president and vice president elected on the same
ticket for a four-year term; governor and lieutenant governor
elected on the same ticket by popular vote for four-year terms;
election last held 3 November 1998 (next to be held NA November 2002)

election results:  Carl GUTIERREZ reelected governor; percent of
vote - Carl GUTIERREZ (Democrat) 53.2%, Joseph ADA (Republican) 46.8%

Legislative branch: unicameral Legislature (15 seats; members are
elected by popular vote to serve two-year terms)

elections:  last held 7 November 2000 (next to be held NA November
2002)

election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
Republican Party 8, Democratic Party 7

note:  Guam elects one delegate to the US House of Representatives;
election last held 7 November 2000 (next to be held NA November
2002); results - Robert UNDERWOOD was reelected as delegate; percent
of vote by party - NA%; seats by party - Democratic Party 1

Judicial branch: Federal District Court (judge is appointed by the
president); Territorial Superior Court (judges appointed for
eight-year terms by the governor)

Political parties and leaders: Democratic Party (party of the
Governor) [leader NA]; Republican Party (controls the legislature)
[leader NA]

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: ESCAP (associate),
Interpol (subbureau), IOC, SPC

Diplomatic representation in the US: none (territory of the US)

Diplomatic representation from the US: none (territory of the US)

Flag description: territorial flag is dark blue with a narrow red
border on all four sides; centered is a red-bordered, pointed,
vertical ellipse containing a beach scene, outrigger canoe with
sail, and a palm tree with the word GUAM superimposed in bold red
letters; US flag is the national flag



Guam    Economy

Economy - overview: The economy depends on US military spending,
tourism, and the export of fish and handicrafts. Total US grants,
wage payments, and procurement outlays amounted to $1 billion in
1998. Over the past 20 years, the tourist industry has grown
rapidly, creating a construction boom for new hotels and the
expansion of older ones. More than 1 million tourists visit Guam
each year. The industry has recently suffered setbacks because of
the continuing Japanese slowdown; the Japanese normally make up
almost 90% of the tourists. Most food and industrial goods are
imported. Guam faces the problem of building up the civilian
economic sector to offset the impact of military downsizing.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $3.2 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: NA%

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $21,000 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  NA%

industry:  15% (1993)

services:  NA%

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 0% (1999 est.)

Labor force: 60,000 (2000 est.)

Labor force - by occupation: federal and territorial government 26%,
private 74% (trade 24%, other services 40%, industry 10%) (2000 est.)

Unemployment rate: 15% (2000 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $605.3 million

expenditures:  $654.2 million, including capital expenditures of $NA
(2000)

Industries: US military, tourism, construction, transshipment
services, concrete products, printing and publishing, food
processing, textiles

Industrial production growth rate: NA%

Electricity - production: 800 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  100%

hydro:  0%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 744 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: fruits, copra, vegetables; eggs, pork,
poultry, beef

Exports: $75.7 million (f.o.b., 1999)

Exports - commodities: mostly transshipments of refined petroleum
products; construction materials, fish, food and beverage products

Exports - partners: US 25%

Imports: $203 million (f.o.b., 1999 est.)

Imports - commodities: petroleum and petroleum products, food,
manufactured goods

Imports - partners: US 23%, Japan 19%

Debt - external: $NA

Economic aid - recipient: Guam receives large transfer payments from
the US Federal Treasury ($143 million in 1997) into which Guamanians
pay no income or excise taxes; under the provisions of a special law
of Congress, the Guam Treasury, rather than the US Treasury,
receives federal income taxes paid by military and civilian Federal
employees stationed in Guam

Currency: US dollar (USD)

Currency code: USD

Exchange rates: the US dollar is used

Fiscal year: 1 October - 30 September



Guam    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 84,134 (1998)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 55,000 (1998)

Telephone system: general assessment:  modern system, integrated
with US facilities for direct dialing, including free use of 800
numbers

domestic:  modern digital system, including cellular mobile service
and local access to the Internet

international:  satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat (Pacific
Ocean); submarine cables to US and Japan (Guam is a trans-Pacific
communications hub for MCI, Sprint, AT&T, IT&E, and GTE, linking the
US and Asia)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 4, FM 7, shortwave 0 (1998)

Radios: 221,000 (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 5 (1997)

Televisions: 106,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .gu

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 20 (2000)

Internet users: 5,000 (2000)



Guam    Transportation

Railways: 0 km

Highways: total:  885 km

paved:  675 km

unpaved:  210 km

note:  there are also 685 km of roads classified non-public,
including roads located on federal government installations

Waterways: none

Ports and harbors: Apra Harbor

Merchant marine: none (2000 est.)

Airports: 5 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  4

over 3,047 m:  2

2,438 to 3,047 m:  1

914 to 1,523 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  1

under 914 m:  1 (2000 est.)



Guam    Military

Military - note: defense is the responsibility of the US



Guam    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

======================================================================

@Guatemala




Guatemala    Introduction

Background: Guatemala was freed of Spanish colonial rule in 1821.
During the second half of the 20th century, it experienced a variety
of military and civilian governments as well as a 36-year guerrilla
war. In 1996, the government signed a peace agreement formally
ending the conflict, which had led to the death of more than 100,000
people and had created some 1 million refugees.



Guatemala    Geography

Location: Middle America, bordering the Caribbean Sea, between
Honduras and Belize and bordering the North Pacific Ocean, between
El Salvador and Mexico

Geographic coordinates: 15 30 N, 90 15 W

Map references: Central America and the Caribbean

Area: total:  108,890 sq km

land:  108,430 sq km

water:  460 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly smaller than Tennessee

Land boundaries: total:  1,687 km

border countries:  Belize 266 km, El Salvador 203 km, Honduras 256
km, Mexico 962 km

Coastline: 400 km

Maritime claims: continental shelf:  200-m depth or to the depth of
exploitation

exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: tropical; hot, humid in lowlands; cooler in highlands

Terrain: mostly mountains with narrow coastal plains and rolling
limestone plateau (Peten)

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Pacific Ocean 0 m

highest point:  Volcan Tajumulco 4,211 m

Natural resources: petroleum, nickel, rare woods, fish, chicle,
hydropower

Land use: arable land:  12%

permanent crops:  5%

permanent pastures:  24%

forests and woodland:  54%

other:  5% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 1,250 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: numerous volcanoes in mountains, with occasional
violent earthquakes; Caribbean coast subject to hurricanes and other
tropical storms

Environment - current issues: deforestation; soil erosion; water
pollution; Hurricane Mitch damage

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Antarctic Treaty,
Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol,
Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification,
Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Nuclear Test Ban,
Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands

signed, but not ratified:  Antarctic-Environmental Protocol

Geography - note: no natural harbors on west coast



Guatemala    People

Population: 12,974,361 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  42.11% (male 2,789,189; female 2,674,747)

15-64 years:  54.25% (male 3,518,209; female 3,519,851)

65 years and over:  3.64% (male 220,640; female 251,725) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 2.6% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 34.61 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 6.79 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: -1.84 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.88 male(s)/female

total population:  1.01 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 45.79 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  66.51 years

male:  63.85 years

female:  69.31 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 4.58 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 1.38% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 73,000 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: 3,600 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Guatemalan(s)

adjective:  Guatemalan

Ethnic groups: Mestizo (mixed Amerindian-Spanish or assimilated
Amerindian - in local Spanish called Ladino), approximately 55%,
Amerindian or predominantly Amerindian, approximately 43%, whites
and others 2%

Religions: Roman Catholic, Protestant, indigenous Mayan beliefs

Languages: Spanish 60%, Amerindian languages 40% (more than 20
Amerindian languages, including Quiche, Cakchiquel, Kekchi, Mam,
Garifuna, and Xinca)

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  63.6%

male:  68.7%

female:  58.5% (2000 est.)



Guatemala    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Republic of Guatemala

conventional short form:  Guatemala

local long form:  Republica de Guatemala

local short form:  Guatemala

Government type: constitutional democratic republic

Capital: Guatemala

Administrative divisions: 22 departments (departamentos, singular -
departamento); Alta Verapaz, Baja Verapaz, Chimaltenango,
Chiquimula, El Progreso, Escuintla, Guatemala, Huehuetenango,
Izabal, Jalapa, Jutiapa, Peten, Quetzaltenango, Quiche, Retalhuleu,
Sacatepequez, San Marcos, Santa Rosa, Solola, Suchitepequez,
Totonicapan, Zacapa

Independence: 15 September 1821 (from Spain)

National holiday: Independence Day, 15 September (1821)

Constitution: 31 May 1985, effective 14 January 1986; note -
suspended 25 May 1993 by former President SERRANO; reinstated 5 June
1993 following ouster of president; amended November 1993

Legal system: civil law system; judicial review of legislative acts;
has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal (active duty members of the
armed forces may not vote)

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Alfonso Antonio
PORTILLO Cabrera (since 14 January 2000); Vice President Juan
Francisco REYES Lopez (since 14 January 2000); note - the president
is both the chief of state and head of government

head of government:  President Alfonso Antonio PORTILLO Cabrera
(since 14 January 2000); Vice President Juan Francisco REYES Lopez
(since 14 January 2000); note - the president is both the chief of
state and head of government

cabinet:  Council of Ministers named by the president

elections:  president elected by popular vote for a four-year term;
election last held 7 November 1999; runoff held 26 December 1999
(next to be held NA November 2003)

election results:  Alfonso Antonio PORTILLO Cabrera elected
president; percent of vote - Alfonso Antonio PORTILLO Cabrera (FRG)
68%, Oscar BERGER Perdomo (PAN) 32%

Legislative branch: unicameral Congress of the Republic or Congreso
de la Republica (113 seats; members are elected by popular vote to
serve four-year terms)

elections:  last held on 7 November 1999 (next to be held in
November 2003)

election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
FRG 63, PAN 37, ANN 9, DCG 2, UD/LOV 1, PLP 1

note:  for the 7 November 1999 election, the number of congressional
seats was increased from 80 to 113

Judicial branch: Supreme Court of Justice or Corte Suprema de
Justicia (thirteen members serve concurrent five-year terms and
elect a president of the Court each year from among their number;
the president of the Supreme Court of Justice also supervises trial
judges around the country, who are named to five-year terms);
Constitutional Court or Corte de Constitutcionalidad (five judges
are elected for concurrent five-year terms by Congress, each serving
one year as president of the Constitutional Court; one is elected by
Congress, one elected by the Supreme Court of Justice, one appointed
by the President, one elected by Superior Counsel of Universidad San
Carlos de Guatemala, and one by Colegio de Abogados)

Political parties and leaders: Authentic Integral Development or DIA
[Jorge Luis ORTEGA]; Democratic Union or UD [Jose Luis CHEA
Urruela]; Green Party or LOV [Jose ASTURIAS Rudecke]; Guatemalan
Christian Democracy or DCG [Vinicio CEREZO Arevalo]; Guatemalan
National Revolutionary Unity or URNG [Pablo MONSANTO, also known as
Jorge SOTO]; Guatemalan Republican Front or FRG [Efrain RIOS Montt];
New Nation Alliance or ANN [leader NA], which includes the URNG;
National Advancement Party or PAN [Leonel LOPEZ Rodas]; Progressive
Liberator Party or PLP [Acisclo VALLADARES Molina]

Political pressure groups and leaders: Agrarian Owners Group or
UNAGRO; Alliance Against Impunity or AAI; Committee for Campesino
Unity or CUC; Coordinating Committee of Agricultural, Commercial,
Industrial, and Financial Associations or CACIF; Mutual Support
Group or GAM

International organization participation: BCIE, CACM, CCC, ECLAC,
FAO, G-24, G-77, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IFAD,
IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO
(correspondent), ITU, LAES, LAIA (observer), NAM, OAS, OPANAL, OPCW,
PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNU, UPU, WCL, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO,
WToO, WTrO

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Ariel RIVERA Irias

chancery:  2220 R Street NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone:  [1] (202) 745-4952

FAX:  [1] (202) 745-1908

consulate(s) general:  Chicago, Houston, Los Angeles, Miami, New
York, and San Francisco

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Prudence BUSHNELL

embassy:  7-01 Avenida Reforma, Zone 10, Guatemala City

mailing address:  APO AA 34024

telephone:  [502] 331-1541/55

FAX:  [502] 334-8477

Flag description: three equal vertical bands of light blue (hoist
side), white, and light blue with the coat of arms centered in the
white band; the coat of arms includes a green and red quetzal (the
national bird) and a scroll bearing the inscription LIBERTAD 15 DE
SEPTIEMBRE DE 1821 (the original date of independence from Spain)
all superimposed on a pair of crossed rifles and a pair of crossed
swords and framed by a wreath



Guatemala    Economy

Economy - overview: The agricultural sector accounts for about
one-fourth of GDP, two-thirds of exports, and half of the labor
force. Coffee, sugar, and bananas are the main products. Former
President ARZU (1996-2000) worked to implement a program of economic
liberalization and political modernization. The 1996 signing of the
peace accords, which ended 36 years of civil war, removed a major
obstacle to foreign investment. In 1998, Hurricane Mitch caused
relatively little damage to Guatemala compared to its neighbors.
Ongoing challenges include increasing government revenues,
negotiating further assistance from international donors, and
increasing the efficiency and openness of both government and
private financial operations. Despite low international prices for
Guatemala's main commodities, the economy grew by 3% in 2000 and is
forecast to grow by 4% in 2001. Guatemala, along with Honduras and
El Salvador, recently concluded a free trade agreement with Mexico
and has moved to protect international property rights. However, the
PORTILLO administration has undertaken a review of privatizations
under the previous administration, thereby creating some uncertainty
among investors.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $46.2 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 3% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $3,700 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  23%

industry:  20%

services:  57% (2000 est.)

Population below poverty line: 60% (2000 est.)

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:
0.6%

highest 10%:  46.6% (1989)

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 6% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 4.2 million (1999 est.)

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture 50%, industry 15%, services
35% (1999 est.)

Unemployment rate: 7.5% (1999 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $2.2 billion

expenditures:  $1.8 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
(2001 est.)

Industries: sugar, textiles and clothing, furniture, chemicals,
petroleum, metals, rubber, tourism

Industrial production growth rate: 4.1% (1999)

Electricity - production: 3.785 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  38.31%

hydro:  61.69%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 3.295 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 435 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 210 million kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: sugarcane, corn, bananas, coffee, beans,
cardamom; cattle, sheep, pigs, chickens

Exports: $2.9 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Exports - commodities: coffee, sugar, bananas, fruits and
vegetables, cardamom, meat, apparel, petroleum, electricity

Exports - partners: US 51.4%, El Salvador 8.7%, Honduras 5%, Costa
Rica 3.4%, Germany 2.7% (1998)

Imports: $4.4 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Imports - commodities: fuels, machinery and transport equipment,
construction materials, grain, fertilizers, electricity

Imports - partners: US 42.8%, Mexico 9.9%, Japan 4.8%, El Salvador
4.3%, Venezuela 3.8% (1998)

Debt - external: $4.7 billion (2000 est.)

Economic aid - recipient: $212 million (1995)

Currency: quetzal (GTQ), US dollar (USD), others allowed

Currency code: GTQ; USD

Exchange rates: quetzales per US dollar - 7.8020 (January 2001),
7.7632 (2000), 7.3856 (1999), 6.3947 (1998), 6.0653 (1997), 6.0495
(1996), 5.8103 (1995)

Fiscal year: calendar year



Guatemala    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 665,061 (June 2000)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 663,296 (September 2000)

Telephone system: general assessment:  fairly modern network
centered in the city of Guatemala

domestic:  NA

international:  connected to Central American Microwave System;
satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 130, FM 487, shortwave 15 (2000)

Radios: 835,000 (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 26 (plus 27 repeaters) (1997)

Televisions: 1.323 million (1997)

Internet country code: .gt

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 5 (2000)

Internet users: 65,000 (2000)



Guatemala    Transportation

Railways: total:  884 km (102 km privately owned)

narrow gauge:  884 km 0.914-m gauge (single track)

Highways: total:  13,856 km

paved:  4,370 km (including 140 km of expressways)

unpaved:  9,486 km (1998)

Waterways: 990 km

note:  260 km navigable year round; additional 730 km navigable
during highwater season

Pipelines: crude oil 275 km

Ports and harbors: Champerico, Puerto Barrios, Puerto Quetzal, San
Jose, Santo Tomas de Castilla

Merchant marine: none (2000 est.)

Airports: 477 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  11

2,438 to 3,047 m:  3

1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

914 to 1,523 m:  5

under 914 m:  2 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  466

2,438 to 3,047 m:  1

1,524 to 2,437 m:  9

914 to 1,523 m:  124

under 914 m:  332 (2000 est.)



Guatemala    Military

Military branches: Army, Navy, Air Force

Military manpower - military age: 18 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  3,092,050 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
2,018,636 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  140,358
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $120 million (FY99)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 0.6% (FY99)



Guatemala    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: Guatemala periodically asserts claims to
territory in southern Belize; to deter cross-border squatting, both
states in 2000 agreed to a "line of adjacency" based on the de facto
boundary, which is not recognized by Guatemala

Illicit drugs: transit country for cocaine and heroin; minor
producer of illicit opium poppy and cannabis for the international
drug trade; proximity to Mexico makes Guatemala a major staging area
for drugs (cocaine and heroin shipments); money laundering is
probably increasing

======================================================================

@Guernsey





Guernsey    Introduction

Background: The island of Guernsey and the other Channel Islands
represent the last remnants of the medieval Dukedom of Normandy,
which held sway in both France and England. The islands were the
only British soil occupied by German troops in World War II.



Guernsey    Geography

Location: Western Europe, islands in the English Channel, northwest
of France

Geographic coordinates: 49 28 N, 2 35 W

Map references: Europe

Area: total:  194 sq km

land:  194 sq km

water:  0 sq km

note:  includes Alderney, Guernsey, Herm, Sark, and some other
smaller islands

Area - comparative: slightly larger than Washington, DC

Land boundaries: 0 km

Coastline: 50 km

Maritime claims: exclusive fishing zone:  12 NM

territorial sea:  3 NM

Climate: temperate with mild winters and cool summers; about 50% of
days are overcast

Terrain: mostly level with low hills in southwest

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Atlantic Ocean 0 m

highest point:  unnamed location on Sark 114 m

Natural resources: cropland

Land use: arable land:  NA%

permanent crops:  NA%

permanent pastures:  NA%

forests and woodland:  NA%

other:  NA%

Irrigated land: NA sq km

Natural hazards: NA

Environment - current issues: NA

Geography - note: large, deepwater harbor at Saint Peter Port



Guernsey    People

Population: 64,342 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  16.22% (male 5,285; female 5,151)

15-64 years:  66.67% (male 21,264; female 21,630)

65 years and over:  17.11% (male 4,546; female 6,466) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 0.39% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 9.9 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 9.87 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 3.89 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.04 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.03 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  0.98 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.7 male(s)/female

total population:  0.94 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 5 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  79.78 years

male:  76.78 years

female:  82.88 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 1.36 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: NA%

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: NA

HIV/AIDS - deaths: NA

Nationality: noun:  Channel Islander(s)

adjective:  Channel Islander

Ethnic groups: UK and Norman-French descent

Religions: Anglican, Roman Catholic, Presbyterian, Baptist,
Congregational, Methodist

Languages: English, French, Norman-French dialect spoken in country
districts

Literacy: definition:  NA

total population:  NA%

male:  NA%

female:  NA%



Guernsey    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Bailiwick of Guernsey

conventional short form:  Guernsey

Dependency status: British crown dependency

Government type: NA

Capital: Saint Peter Port

Administrative divisions: none (British crown dependency); there are
no first-order administrative divisions as defined by the US
Government, but there are 10 parishes including St. Peter Port, St.
Sampson, Vale, Castel, St. Saviour, St. Pierre du Bois, Torteval,
Forest, St. Martin, St. Andrew

Independence: none (British crown dependency)

National holiday: Liberation Day, 9 May (1945)

Constitution: unwritten; partly statutes, partly common law and
practice

Legal system: English law and local statute; justice is administered
by the Royal Court

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6
February 1952)

head of government:  Lieutenant Governor and Commander-in-Chief Lt.
Gen. Sir John FOLEY (since NA 2000) and Bailiff De Vic G. CAREY
(since NA)

cabinet:  Advisory and Finance Committee appointed by the Assembly
of the States

elections:  none; the monarch is hereditary; lieutenant governor
appointed by the monarch; bailiff appointed by the monarch

Legislative branch: unicameral Assembly of the States; consists of
the Bailiff, 10 Douzaine (parish council) representatives, 45
People's Deputies elected by popular franchise, 2 Alderney
representatives, HM Procureur (Attorney General), HM Comptroller
(Solicitor General) and HM Greffier (Court Recorder and Registrar
General)

elections:  last held 12 April 2000 (next to be held NA 2006)

election results:  percent of vote - NA%; seats - all independents

Judicial branch: Royal Court

Political parties and leaders: none; all independents

Political pressure groups and leaders: none

International organization participation: none

Diplomatic representation in the US: none (British crown dependency)

Diplomatic representation from the US: none (British crown
dependency)

Flag description: white with the red cross of Saint George (patron
saint of England) extending to the edges of the flag and a yellow
equal-armed cross of William the Conqueror superimposed on the Saint
George cross



Guernsey    Economy

Economy - overview: Financial services - banking, fund management,
insurance, etc. - account for about 55% of total income in this tiny
Channel Island economy. Tourism, manufacturing, and horticulture,
mainly tomatoes and cut flowers, have been declining. Light tax and
death duties make Guernsey a popular tax haven. The evolving
economic integration of the EU nations is changing the rules of the
game under which Guernsey operates.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $1.3 billion (1999 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 5.7% (1999 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $20,000 (1999 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  3%

industry:  10%

services:  87% (2000)

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 3.99% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 31,322 (2000)

Unemployment rate: 0.5% (1999 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $381.3 million

expenditures:  $368.8 million, including capital expenditures of $NA
(2000 est.)

Industries: tourism, banking

Industrial production growth rate: NA%

Electricity - production: NA kWh

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  NA%

hydro:  NA%

nuclear:  NA%

other:  NA%

Electricity - consumption: NA kWh

Electricity - exports: NA kWh

Electricity - imports: NA kWh

Agriculture - products: tomatoes, greenhouse flowers, sweet peppers,
eggplant, fruit; Guernsey cattle

Exports: $NA

Exports - commodities: tomatoes, flowers and ferns, sweet peppers,
eggplant, other vegetables

Exports - partners: UK (regarded as internal trade)

Imports: $NA

Imports - commodities: coal, gasoline, oil, machinery and equipment

Imports - partners: UK (regarded as internal trade)

Debt - external: $NA

Economic aid - recipient: $NA

Currency: British pound (GBP); note - there is also a Guernsey pound

Currency code: GBP

Exchange rates: Guernsey pounds per US dollar - 0.6764 (January
2001), 0.6596 0.6180 (1999), 0.6037 (1998), 0.6106 (1997), 0.6403
(1996); note - the Guernsey pound is at par with the British pound

Fiscal year: calendar year



Guernsey    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 44,000 (1996)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 12,000 (1997)

Telephone system: general assessment:  NA

domestic:  NA

international:  1 submarine cable

Radio broadcast stations: AM 1, FM 1, shortwave 0 (1998)

Radios: NA

Television broadcast stations: 1 (1997)

Televisions: NA

Internet country code: .gg

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): NA

Internet users: NA



Guernsey    Transportation

Railways: 0 km

Highways: total:  NA km

paved:  NA km

unpaved:  NA km

Waterways: none

Ports and harbors: Saint Peter Port, Saint Sampson

Merchant marine: none (2000 est.)

Airports: 2 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  2

914 to 1,523 m:  1

under 914 m:  1 (2000 est.)



Guernsey    Military

Military - note: defense is the responsibility of the UK



Guernsey    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

======================================================================

@Guinea




Guinea    Introduction

Background: Independent from France since 1958, Guinea did not hold
democratic elections until 1993 when Gen. Lansana CONTE (head of the
military government) was elected president of the civilian
government. He was reelected in 1998. Unrest in Sierra Leone has
spilled over into Guinea, threatening stability and creating a
humanitarian emergency.



Guinea    Geography

Location: Western Africa, bordering the North Atlantic Ocean,
between Guinea-Bissau and Sierra Leone

Geographic coordinates: 11 00 N, 10 00 W

Map references: Africa

Area: total:  245,857 sq km

land:  245,857 sq km

water:  0 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly smaller than Oregon

Land boundaries: total:  3,399 km

border countries:  Cote d'Ivoire 610 km, Guinea-Bissau 386 km,
Liberia 563 km, Mali 858 km, Senegal 330 km, Sierra Leone 652 km

Coastline: 320 km

Maritime claims: exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: generally hot and humid; monsoonal-type rainy season (June
to November) with southwesterly winds; dry season (December to May)
with northeasterly harmattan winds

Terrain: generally flat coastal plain, hilly to mountainous interior

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Atlantic Ocean 0 m

highest point:  Mont Nimba 1,752 m

Natural resources: bauxite, iron ore, diamonds, gold, uranium,
hydropower, fish

Land use: arable land:  2%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  22%

forests and woodland:  59%

other:  17% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 930 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: hot, dry, dusty harmattan haze may reduce
visibility during dry season

Environment - current issues: deforestation; inadequate supplies of
potable water; desertification; soil contamination and erosion;
overfishing, overpopulation in forest region

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification,
Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer
Protection, Wetlands, Whaling

signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements



Guinea    People

Population: 7,613,870 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  43.12% (male 1,637,000; female 1,645,786)

15-64 years:  54.19% (male 2,015,199; female 2,110,745)

65 years and over:  2.69% (male 84,586; female 120,554) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 1.96% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 39.78 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 17.53 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: -2.63 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

note:  as a result of civil war in neighboring countries, Guinea is
host to almost half a million Liberian and Sierra Leonean refugees

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.03 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  0.99 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  0.95 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.7 male(s)/female

total population:  0.96 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 129.03 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  45.91 years

male:  43.49 years

female:  48.42 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 5.39 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 1.54% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 55,000 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: 5,600 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Guinean(s)

adjective:  Guinean

Ethnic groups: Peuhl 40%, Malinke 30%, Soussou 20%, smaller ethnic
groups 10%

Religions: Muslim 85%, Christian 8%, indigenous beliefs 7%

Languages: French (official), each ethnic group has its own language

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  35.9%

male:  49.9%

female:  21.9% (1995 est.)



Guinea    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Republic of Guinea

conventional short form:  Guinea

local long form:  Republique de Guinee

local short form:  Guinee

former:  French Guinea

Government type: republic

Capital: Conakry

Administrative divisions: 33 prefectures and 1 special zone (zone
special)*; Beyla, Boffa, Boke, Conakry*, Coyah, Dabola, Dalaba,
Dinguiraye, Dubreka, Faranah, Forecariah, Fria, Gaoual, Gueckedou,
Kankan, Kerouane, Kindia, Kissidougou, Koubia, Koundara, Kouroussa,
Labe, Lelouma, Lola, Macenta, Mali, Mamou, Mandiana, Nzerekore,
Pita, Siguiri, Telimele, Tougue, Yomou

Independence: 2 October 1958 (from France)

National holiday: Independence Day, 2 October (1958)

Constitution: 23 December 1990 (Loi Fundamentale)

Legal system: based on French civil law system, customary law, and
decree; legal codes currently being revised; has not accepted
compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Lansana CONTE (head of
military government since 5 April 1984, elected president 19
December 1993)

head of government:  Prime Minister Lamine SIDIME (since 8 March
1999)

cabinet:  Council of Ministers appointed by the president

elections:  president elected by popular vote for a five-year term;
candidate must receive a majority of the votes cast to be elected
president; election last held 14 December 1998 (next to be held NA
December 2003); the prime minister is appointed by the president

election results:  Lansana CONTE reelected president; percent of
vote - Lansana CONTE (PUP) 56.1%, Mamadou Boye BA (UNR-PRP) 24.6%,
Alpha CONDE (RPG) 16.6%,

Legislative branch: unicameral People's National Assembly or
Assemblee Nationale Populaire (114 seats; members are elected by
direct popular vote to serve five-year terms)

elections:  last held 11 June 1995 (next scheduled for 26 November
2000 postponed indefinitely due to border fighting with rebels from
Sierra Leone and Liberia)

election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
PUP 71, RPG 19, PRP 9, UNR 9, UPG 2, PDG-AST 1, UNP 1, PDG-RDA 1,
other 1

Judicial branch: Court of Appeal or Cour d'Appel

Political parties and leaders: Democratic Party of Guinea or PDG-AST
[Marcel CROS]; Democratic Party of Guinea-African Democratic Rally
or PDG-RDA [El Hadj Ismael Mohamed Gassim GUSHEIN]; National Union
for Progress or UNP [Paul Louis FABER]; Party for Unity and Progress
or PUP [Lansana CONTE] - the governing party; Party for Renewal and
Progress or PRP [Siradiou DIALLO]; Rally for the Guinean People or
RPG [Alpha CONDE]; Union for Progress of Guinea or UPG [Jean-Marie
DORE, secretary-general]; Union for the New Republic or UNR [Mamadou
Boye BA]; Union of Republican Forces or UFR [Sidya TOURE]

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: ACCT, ACP, AfDB, CCC, ECA,
ECOWAS, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC,
IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO
(correspondent), ITU, MINURSO, NAM, OAU, OIC, OPCW, UN, UNAMSIL,
UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Mohamed Aly THIAM

chancery:  2112 Leroy Place NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone:  [1] (202) 483-9420

FAX:  [1] (202) 483-8688

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Charge
d'Affaires Timberlake FOSTER

embassy:  Rue Ka 038, Conakry

mailing address:  B. P. 603, Conakry

telephone:  [224] 41 15 20, 41 15 21, 41 15 23

FAX:  [224] 41 15 22

Flag description: three equal vertical bands of red (hoist side),
yellow, and green; uses the popular pan-African colors of Ethiopia;
similar to the flag of Rwanda, which has a large black letter R
centered in the yellow band



Guinea    Economy

Economy - overview: Guinea possesses major mineral, hydropower, and
agricultural resources, yet remains a poor underdeveloped nation.
The country possesses over 30% of the world's bauxite reserves and
is the second largest bauxite producer. The mining sector accounted
for about 75% of exports in 1999. Long-run improvements in
government fiscal arrangements, literacy, and the legal framework
are needed if the country is to move out of poverty. The government
made encouraging progress in budget management in 1997-99, and
reform progress was praised in the World Bank/IMF October 2000
assessment. However, escalating fighting along the Sierra Leonean
and Liberian borders will cause major economic disruptions. In
addition to direct defense costs, the violence has led to a sharp
decline in investor confidence. Foreign mining companies have
reduced expatriate staff, while panic buying has created food
shortages and inflation in local markets. Real GDP growth is
expected to fall to 2% in 2001.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $10 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 5% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $1,300 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  22.3%

industry:  35.3%

services:  42.4% (1998 est.)

Population below poverty line: 40% (1994 est.)

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:
2.6%

highest 10%:  32% (1994)

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 6% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 3 million (1999)

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture 80%, industry and services
20% (2000 est.)

Unemployment rate: NA%

Budget: revenues:  $NA

expenditures:  $417.7 million, including capital expenditures of $NA
million (2000 est.)

Industries: bauxite, gold, diamonds; alumina refining; light
manufacturing and agricultural processing industries

Industrial production growth rate: 3.2% (1994)

Electricity - production: 750 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  46.67%

hydro:  53.33%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 697.5 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: rice, coffee, pineapples, palm kernels,
cassava (tapioca), bananas, sweet potatoes; cattle, sheep, goats;
timber

Exports: $820 million (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Exports - commodities: bauxite, alumina, gold, diamonds, coffee,
fish, agricultural products

Exports - partners: US, Benelux, Ukraine, Ireland (1999)

Imports: $634 million (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Imports - commodities: petroleum products, metals, machinery,
transport equipment, textiles, grain and other foodstuffs

Imports - partners: France, Belgium, US, Cote d'Ivoire (1999)

Debt - external: $3.6 billion (1999 est.)

Economic aid - recipient: $359.2 million (1998)

Currency: Guinean franc (GNF)

Currency code: GNF

Exchange rates: Guinean francs per US dollar - 1,855.0 (October
2000), 1,572.0 (2000), 1,387.4 (1999), 1,236.8 (1998), 1,095.3
(1997), 1,004.0 (1996)

Fiscal year: calendar year



Guinea    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 20,000 (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 2,868 (1997)

Telephone system: general assessment:  poor to fair system of
open-wire lines, small radiotelephone communication stations, and
new microwave radio relay system

domestic:  microwave radio relay and radiotelephone communication

international:  satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 4, FM 8, shortwave 3 (1998)

Radios: 357,000 (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 6 (1997)

Televisions: 85,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .gn

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 1 (2000)

Internet users: 5,000 (2000)



Guinea    Transportation

Railways: total:  1,086 km

standard gauge:  279 km 1.435-m gauge

narrow gauge:  807 km 1.000-m gauge (includes 662 km in common
carrier service from Kankan to Conakry)

Highways: total:  30,500 km

paved:  5,033 km

unpaved:  25,467 km (1996)

Waterways: 1,295 km (navigable by shallow-draft native craft)

Ports and harbors: Boke, Conakry, Kamsar

Merchant marine: none (2000 est.)

Airports: 15 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  5

over 3,047 m:  1

2,438 to 3,047 m:  1

1,524 to 2,437 m:  3 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  10

1,524 to 2,437 m:  6

914 to 1,523 m:  3

under 914 m:  1 (2000 est.)



Guinea    Military

Military branches: Army, Navy, Air Force, Republican Guard,
Presidential Guard, paramilitary National Gendarmerie, National
Police Force (Surete National)

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  1,764,912 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
891,166 (2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $56 million (FY96)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 1.4% (FY96)



Guinea    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: border incursions by Revolutionary United
Front combatants from Sierra Leone; civil war in that country has
engendered a massive flow of refugees to southern Guinea and Liberia

======================================================================

@Guinea-Bissau




Guinea-Bissau    Introduction

Background: In 1994, 20 years after independence from Portugal, the
country's first multiparty legislative and presidential elections
were held. An army uprising that triggered a bloody civil war in
1998, created hundreds of thousands of displaced persons. The
president was ousted by a military junta in May 1999. An interim
government turned over power in February 2000 when opposition leader
Koumba YALLA took office following two rounds of transparent
presidential elections. Guinea-Bissau's transition back to democracy
will be complicated by a crippled economy devastated by civil war
and the military's predilection for governmental meddling.



Guinea-Bissau    Geography

Location: Western Africa, bordering the North Atlantic Ocean,
between Guinea and Senegal

Geographic coordinates: 12 00 N, 15 00 W

Map references: Africa

Area: total:  36,120 sq km

land:  28,000 sq km

water:  8,120 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly less than three times the size of
Connecticut

Land boundaries: total:  724 km

border countries:  Guinea 386 km, Senegal 338 km

Coastline: 350 km

Maritime claims: exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: tropical; generally hot and humid; monsoonal-type rainy
season (June to November) with southwesterly winds; dry season
(December to May) with northeasterly harmattan winds

Terrain: mostly low coastal plain rising to savanna in east

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Atlantic Ocean 0 m

highest point:  unnamed location in the northeast corner of the
country 300 m

Natural resources: fish, timber, phosphates, bauxite, unexploited
deposits of petroleum

Land use: arable land:  11%

permanent crops:  1%

permanent pastures:  38%

forests and woodland:  38%

other:  12% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 17 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: hot, dry, dusty harmattan haze may reduce
visibility during dry season; brush fires

Environment - current issues: deforestation; soil erosion;
overgrazing; overfishing

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species, Law of the Sea,
Wetlands

signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements



Guinea-Bissau    People

Population: 1,315,822 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  42.09% (male 276,312; female 277,536)

15-64 years:  55.05% (male 344,493; female 379,889)

65 years and over:  2.86% (male 16,850; female 20,742) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 2.23% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 39.29 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 15.33 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: -1.66 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.03 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  0.91 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.81 male(s)/female

total population:  0.94 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 110.4 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  49.42 years

male:  47.12 years

female:  51.78 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 5.2 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 2.5% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 14,000 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: 1,300 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Guinean (s)

adjective:  Guinean

Ethnic groups: African 99% (Balanta 30%, Fula 20%, Manjaca 14%,
Mandinga 13%, Papel 7%), European and mulatto less than 1%

Religions: indigenous beliefs 50%, Muslim 45%, Christian 5%

Languages: Portuguese (official), Crioulo, African languages

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  53.9%

male:  67.1%

female:  40.7% (1997 est.)



Guinea-Bissau    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Republic of Guinea-Bissau

conventional short form:  Guinea-Bissau

local long form:  Republica da Guine-Bissau

local short form:  Guine-Bissau

former:  Portuguese Guinea

Government type: republic, multiparty since mid-1991

Capital: Bissau

Administrative divisions: 9 regions (regioes, singular - regiao);
Bafata, Biombo, Bissau, Bolama, Cacheu, Gabu, Oio, Quinara, Tombali;
note - Bolama may have been renamed Bolama/Bijagos

Independence: 24 September 1973 (unilaterally declared by
Guinea-Bissau); 10 September 1974 (recognized by Portugal)

National holiday: Independence Day, 24 September (1973)

Constitution: 16 May 1984, amended 4 May 1991, 4 December 1991, 26
February 1993, 9 June 1993, and 1996

Legal system: NA

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Koumba YALLA (since 18
February 2000)

head of government:  Prime Minister Faustino IMBALI (since 20 March
2001)

cabinet:  NA

elections:  president elected by popular vote for a five-year term;
election last held 28 November 1999 and 16 January 2000 (next to be
held NA 2004); prime minister appointed by the president after
consultation with party leaders in the legislature

election results:  Koumba YALLA elected president; percent of vote,
second ballot - Koumba YALLA (PRS) 72%, Malan Bacai SANHA (PAIGC) 28%

Legislative branch: unicameral National People's Assembly or
Assembleia Nacional Popular (100 seats; members are elected by
popular vote to serve a maximum of four years)

elections:  last held 28 November 1999 (next to be held by NA 2003)

election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
PRS 37, RGB 27, PAIGC 25, 11 remaining seats went to 5 of the
remaining 10 parties that fielded candidates

Judicial branch: Supreme Court or Supremo Tribunal da Justica
(consists of nine justices who are appointed by the president and
serve at his pleasure; final court of appeals in criminal and civil
cases); Regional Courts (one in each of nine regions; first court of
appeals for Sectoral Court decisions; hear all felony cases and
civil cases valued at over $1,000); 24 Sectoral Courts (judges are
not necessarily trained lawyers; they hear civil cases under $1,000
and misdemeanor criminal cases)

Political parties and leaders: African Party for the Independence of
Guinea-Bissau and Cape Verde or PAIGC [Francisco BENANTE]; Front for
the Liberation and Independence of Guinea or FLING [Francois MENDY];
Guinea-Bissau Resistance-Ba Fata Movement or RGB-MB [Helder Vaz
LOPES]; Guinean Civic Forum or FCG [Antonieta Rosa GOMES];
International League for Ecological Protection or LIPE [Alhaje
Bubacar DJALO, president]; National Union for Democracy and Progress
or UNDP [Abubacer BALDE, secretary general]; Party for Democratic
Convergence or PCD [Victor MANDINGA]; Social Renovation Party or PRS
[Koumba YALLA]; Union for Change or UM [Jorge MANDINGA, president,
Dr. Anne SAAD, secretary general]; United Social Democratic Party or
PUSD [Victor Sau'de MARIA]

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: ACCT (associate), ACP,
AfDB, ECA, ECOWAS, FAO, FZ, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IDB,
IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Intelsat (nonsignatory user),
Interpol, IOC, IOM, ITU, NAM, OAU, OIC, OPCW, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO,
UNIDO, UPU, WADB (regional), WAEMU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Mario LOPES DA ROSA

chancery:  Suite 519, 1511 K Street, NW, Washington, DC 20005

telephone:  [1] (202) 347-3950

FAX:  [1] (202) 347-3954

Diplomatic representation from the US: the US Embassy suspended
operations on 14 June 1998 in the midst of violent conflict between
forces loyal to then President VIEIRA and military-led junta

Flag description: two equal horizontal bands of yellow (top) and
green with a vertical red band on the hoist side; there is a black
five-pointed star centered in the red band; uses the popular
pan-African colors of Ethiopia



Guinea-Bissau    Economy

Economy - overview: One of the 20 poorest countries in the world,
Guinea-Bissau depends mainly on farming and fishing. Cashew crops
have increased remarkably in recent years, and the country now ranks
sixth in cashew production. Guinea-Bissau exports fish and seafood
along with small amounts of peanuts, palm kernels, and timber. Rice
is the major crop and staple food. However, intermittent fighting
between Senegalese-backed government troops and a military junta
destroyed much of the country's infrastructure and caused widespread
damage to the economy in 1998; the civil war led to a 28% drop in
GDP that year, with partial recovery in 1999-2000. Before the war,
trade reform and price liberalization were the most successful part
of the country's structural adjustment program under IMF
sponsorship. The tightening of monetary policy and the development
of the private sector had also begun to reinvigorate the economy.
Because of high costs, the development of petroleum, phosphate, and
other mineral resources is not a near-term prospect. However,
unexploited offshore oil reserves could provide much-needed revenue
in the long run.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $1.1 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 7.6% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $850 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  54%

industry:  15%

services:  31% (1997 est.)

Population below poverty line: 50% (1991 est.)

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:
0.5%

highest 10%:  42.4% (1991)

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 3% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 480,000

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture 78%

Unemployment rate: NA%

Budget: revenues:  $NA

expenditures:  $NA, including capital expenditures of $NA

Industries: agricultural products processing, beer, soft drinks

Industrial production growth rate: 2.6% (1997 est.)

Electricity - production: 55 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  100%

hydro:  0%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 51.2 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: rice, corn, beans, cassava (tapioca), cashew
nuts, peanuts, palm kernels, cotton; timber; fish

Exports: $80 million (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Exports - commodities: cashew nuts 70%, shrimp, peanuts, palm
kernels, sawn lumber (1996)

Exports - partners: India 59%, Singapore 12%, Italy 10% (1998)

Imports: $55.2 million (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Imports - commodities: foodstuffs, machinery and transport
equipment, petroleum products (1996)

Imports - partners: Portugal 26%, France 8%, Senegal 8%, Netherlands
7% (1998)

Debt - external: $964 million (1998 est.)

Economic aid - recipient: $115.4 million (1995)

Currency: Communaute Financiere Africaine franc (XOF); note -
responsible authority is the Central Bank of the West African
States; previously the Guinea-Bissau peso (GWP) was used

Currency code: XOF; GWP

Exchange rates: Communaute Financiere Africaine francs (XOF) per US
dollar - 699.21 (January 2001), 711.98 (2000), 615.70 (1999), 589.95
(1998), 583.67 (1997); Guinea-Bissauan pesos per US dollar - 26,373
(1996)

note:  as of 1 May 1997, Guinea-Bissau adopted the CFA franc as the
national currency; since 1 January 1999, the CFA franc is pegged to
the euro at a rate of 655.957 CFA francs per euro

Fiscal year: calendar year



Guinea-Bissau    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 8,000 (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: NA

Telephone system: general assessment:  small system

domestic:  combination of microwave radio relay, open-wire lines,
radiotelephone, and cellular communications

international:  NA

Radio broadcast stations: AM 1, FM 2, shortwave 0 (1998)

Radios: 49,000 (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 2 (1997)

Televisions: NA

Internet country code: .gw

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 1 (2000)

Internet users: 1,500 (2000)



Guinea-Bissau    Transportation

Railways: 0 km

Highways: total:  4,400 km

paved:  453 km

unpaved:  3,947 km (1996)

Waterways: several rivers are accessible to coastal shipping

Ports and harbors: Bissau, Buba, Cacheu, Farim

Merchant marine: none (2000 est.)

Airports: 29 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  3

over 3,047 m:  1

1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

914 to 1,523 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  26

1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

914 to 1,523 m:  4

under 914 m:  21 (2000 est.)



Guinea-Bissau    Military

Military branches: People's Revolutionary Armed Force (FARP;
includes Army, Navy, and Air Force), paramilitary force

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  305,071 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
173,703 (2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $8 million (FY96)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 2.8% (FY96)



Guinea-Bissau    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

======================================================================

@Guyana




Guyana    Introduction

Background: Guyana achieved independence from the UK in 1966 and
became a republic in 1970. In 1989 Guyana launched an Economic
Recovery Program, which marked a dramatic reversal from a
state-controlled, socialist economy towards a more open, free market
system. Results through the first decade have proven encouraging.



Guyana    Geography

Location: Northern South America, bordering the North Atlantic
Ocean, between Suriname and Venezuela

Geographic coordinates: 5 00 N, 59 00 W

Map references: South America

Area: total:  214,970 sq km

land:  196,850 sq km

water:  18,120 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly smaller than Idaho

Land boundaries: total:  2,462 km

border countries:  Brazil 1,119 km, Suriname 600 km, Venezuela 743 km

Coastline: 459 km

Maritime claims: continental shelf:  200 NM or to the outer edge of
the continental margin

exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: tropical; hot, humid, moderated by northeast trade winds;
two rainy seasons (May to mid-August, mid-November to mid-January)

Terrain: mostly rolling highlands; low coastal plain; savanna in
south

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Atlantic Ocean 0 m

highest point:  Mount Roraima 2,835 m

Natural resources: bauxite, gold, diamonds, hardwood timber, shrimp,
fish

Land use: arable land:  2%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  6%

forests and woodland:  84%

other:  8% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 1,300 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: flash floods are a constant threat during rainy
seasons

Environment - current issues: water pollution from sewage and
agricultural and industrial chemicals; deforestation

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species, Law of the Sea,
Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical
Timber 94

signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements



Guyana    People

Population: 697,181

note:  estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
life expectancy, higher infant mortality and death rates, lower
population and growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  28.19% (male 100,194; female 96,309)

15-64 years:  66.89% (male 234,976; female 231,360)

65 years and over:  4.92% (male 15,324; female 19,018) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 0.07% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 17.92 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 8.87 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: -8.38 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1.02 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.81 male(s)/female

total population:  1.01 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 38.72 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  63.31 years

male:  60.52 years

female:  66.24 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 2.1 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 3.01% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 15,000 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: 900 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Guyanese (singular and plural)

adjective:  Guyanese

Ethnic groups: East Indian 49%, black 32%, mixed 12%, Amerindian 6%,
white and Chinese 1%

Religions: Christian 50%, Hindu 33%, Muslim 9%, other 8%

Languages: English, Amerindian dialects, Creole, Hindi, Urdu

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over has ever attended school

total population:  98.1%

male:  98.6%

female:  97.5% (1995 est.)



Guyana    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Co-operative Republic of
Guyana

conventional short form:  Guyana

former:  British Guiana

Government type: republic within the Commonwealth

Capital: Georgetown

Administrative divisions: 10 regions; Barima-Waini, Cuyuni-Mazaruni,
Demerara-Mahaica, East Berbice-Corentyne, Essequibo Islands-West
Demerara, Mahaica-Berbice, Pomeroon-Supenaam, Potaro-Siparuni, Upper
Demerara-Berbice, Upper Takutu-Upper Essequibo

Independence: 26 May 1966 (from UK)

National holiday: Republic Day, 23 February (1970)

Constitution: 6 October 1980

Legal system: based on English common law with certain admixtures of
Roman-Dutch law; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Bharrat JAGDEO (since
11 August 1999); note - assumed presidency after resignation of
President JAGAN

head of government:  Prime Minister Samuel HINDS (since NA December
1997)

cabinet:  Cabinet of Ministers appointed by the president,
responsible to the legislature

elections:  president elected by the majority party in the National
Assembly following legislative elections, which must be held at
least every five years; elections last held 19 March 2001 (next to
be held NA); prime minister appointed by the president

election results:  President Bharrat JAGDEO reelected; percent of
legislative vote - NA%

Legislative branch: unicameral National Assembly (65 seats, 53
elected by popular vote, 10 elected by the ten Regional Democratic
Councils, and 2 elected by the National Congress of Local Democratic
Organs; members serve five-year terms)

elections:  last held 19 March 2001 (next to be held NA March 2006)

election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
PPP/C 34, PNC 27, GAP and WPA 2, ROAR 1, TUF 1

Judicial branch: Supreme Court of Judicature; Judicial Court of
Appeal; High Court

Political parties and leaders: Alliance for Guyana or AFG (includes
Guyana Labor Party or GLP and Working People's Alliance or WPA
[Rupert ROOPNARINE]; Guyana Action Party or GAP [leader NA]; Guyana
Labor Party or GLP [leader NA]; People's National Congress or PNC
[Hugh Desmond HOYTE]; People's Progressive Party or PPP [Janet
JAGEN]; Rise, Organize and Rebuild or ROAR [Ravi DEV]; The United
Force or TUF [Manzoor NADIR]; Working People's Alliance or WPA
[Rupert ROOPARNINE]

Political pressure groups and leaders: Civil Liberties Action
Committee or CLAC; Guyana Council of Indian Organizations or GCIO;
Rise, Organize and Rebuild or ROAR [Ravi DEV]; Trades Union Congress
or TUC

note:  the GCIO and the CLAC are small and active but not well
organized

International organization participation: ACP, C, Caricom, CCC, CDB,
ECLAC, FAO, G-77, IADB, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC,
IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Intelsat (nonsignatory user), Interpol, IOC,
ISO (subscriber), ITU, LAES, NAM, OAS, OIC, OPANAL, OPCW, PCA, UN,
UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTrO

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Dr. Ali Odeen ISHMAEL

chancery:  2490 Tracy Place NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone:  [1] (202) 265-6900

consulate(s) general:  New York

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Ronald D. GODARD

embassy:  100 Young and Duke Streets, Kingston, Georgetown

mailing address:  P. O. Box 10507, Georgetown

telephone:  [592] (2) 54900 through 54909, 57960 through 57969

FAX:  [592] (2) 58497

Flag description: green, with a red isosceles triangle (based on the
hoist side) superimposed on a long, yellow arrowhead; there is a
narrow, black border between the red and yellow, and a narrow, white
border between the yellow and the green



Guyana    Economy

Economy - overview: Severe drought and political turmoil contributed
to Guyana's negative growth of -1.8% for 1998 following six straight
years of growth of 5% or better. Growth came back to a positive 1.8%
in 1999 and 3% in 2000. Underlying growth factors have included
expansion in the key agricultural and mining sectors, a more
favorable atmosphere for business initiative, a more realistic
exchange rate, a moderate inflation rate, and continued support by
international organizations. President JAGDEO, the former finance
minister, is taking steps to reform the economy, including drafting
an investment code and restructuring the inefficient and
unresponsive public sector. Problems include a shortage of skilled
labor and a deficient infrastructure. The government must persist in
efforts to manage its sizable external debt and attract new
investment.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $3.4 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 3% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $4,800 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  34.7%

industry:  32.5%

services:  32.8% (1998 est.)

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 5.9% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 245,492 (1992)

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture NA%, industry NA%, services
NA%

Unemployment rate: 12% (1992 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $220.1 million

expenditures:  $286.4 million, including capital expenditures of
$86.6 million (1998)

Industries: bauxite, sugar, rice milling, timber, fishing (shrimp),
textiles, gold mining

Industrial production growth rate: 7.1% (1997 est.)

Electricity - production: 455 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  98.9%

hydro:  1.1%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 423.2 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: sugar, rice, wheat, vegetable oils; beef,
pork, poultry, dairy products; forest and fishery potential not
exploited

Exports: $570 million (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Exports - commodities: sugar, gold, bauxite/alumina, rice, shrimp,
molasses, rum, timber

Exports - partners: US 22%, Canada 22%, UK 18%, Netherlands Antilles
11%, Jamaica (1999)

Imports: $660 million (c.i.f., 2000 est.)

Imports - commodities: manufactures, machinery, petroleum, food

Imports - partners: US 29%, Trinidad and Tobago 18%, Netherlands
Antilles 16%, UK 7%, Japan (1999)

Debt - external: $1.1 billion (2000)

Economic aid - recipient: $84 million (1995), Heavily Indebted Poor
Country Initiative (HIPC) $253 million (1997)

Currency: Guyanese dollar (GYD)

Currency code: GYD

Exchange rates: Guyanese dollars per US dollar - 184.1 (November
2000), 182.2 (2000), 178.0 (1999), 150.5 (1998), 142.4 (1997), 140.4
(1996)

Fiscal year: calendar year



Guyana    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 70,000 (2000)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 6,100 (2000)

Telephone system: general assessment:  fair system for long-distance
calling

domestic:  microwave radio relay network for trunk lines

international:  tropospheric scatter to Trinidad; satellite earth
station - 1 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 3, FM 3, shortwave 1 (1998)

Radios: 420,000 (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 3 (one public station; two private
stations which relay US satellite services) (1997)

Televisions: 46,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .gy

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 3 (2000)

Internet users: 3,000 (2000)



Guyana    Transportation

Railways: total:  187 km (all dedicated to ore transport)

standard gauge:  139 km 1.435-m gauge

narrow gauge:  48 km 0.914-m gauge

Highways: total:  7,970 km

paved:  590 km

unpaved:  7,380 km (1996)

Waterways: 5,900 km (total length of navigable waterways)

note:  Berbice, Demerara, and Essequibo rivers are navigable by
oceangoing vessels for 150 km, 100 km, and 80 km, respectively

Ports and harbors: Bartica, Georgetown, Linden, New Amsterdam, Parika

Merchant marine: total:  2 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 2,929
GRT/4,507 DWT

ships by type:  cargo 2 (2000 est.)

Airports: 51 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  6

1,524 to 2,437 m:  3

914 to 1,523 m:  1

under 914 m:  2 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  45

1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

914 to 1,523 m:  8

under 914 m:  36 (2000 est.)



Guyana    Military

Military branches: Guyana Defense Force (GDF; includes Ground
Forces, Coast Guard, and Air Corps), Guyana People's Militia (GPM),
Guyana National Service (GNS), Guyana Police Force

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  204,938 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
154,259 (2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $7 million (FY94)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 1.7% (FY94)



Guyana    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: all of the area west of the Essequibo
(river) claimed by Venezuela; Suriname claims area between New
(Upper Courantyne) and Courantyne/Kutari [Koetari] rivers (all
headwaters of the Courantyne)

Illicit drugs: transshipment point for narcotics from South America
- primarily Venezuela - to Europe and the US; producer of cannabis

======================================================================

@Haiti




Haiti    Introduction

Background: One of the poorest countries in the Western Hemisphere,
Haiti has been plagued by political violence for most of its
history. Over three decades of dictatorship followed by military
rule ended in 1990 when Jean-Bertrand ARISTIDE was elected
president. Most of his term was usurped by a military takeover, but
he was able to return to office in 1994 and oversee the installation
of a close associate to the presidency in 1996. ARISTIDE won a
second term as president in 2000, and took office early the
following year.



Haiti    Geography

Location: Caribbean, western one-third of the island of Hispaniola,
between the Caribbean Sea and the North Atlantic Ocean, west of the
Dominican Republic

Geographic coordinates: 19 00 N, 72 25 W

Map references: Central America and the Caribbean

Area: total:  27,750 sq km

land:  27,560 sq km

water:  190 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly smaller than Maryland

Land boundaries: total:  275 km

border countries:  Dominican Republic 275 km

Coastline: 1,771 km

Maritime claims: contiguous zone:  24 NM

continental shelf:  to depth of exploitation

exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: tropical; semiarid where mountains in east cut off trade
winds

Terrain: mostly rough and mountainous

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Caribbean Sea 0 m

highest point:  Chaine de la Selle 2,680 m

Natural resources: bauxite, copper, calcium carbonate, gold, marble,
hydropower

Land use: arable land:  20%

permanent crops:  13%

permanent pastures:  18%

forests and woodland:  5%

other:  44% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 750 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: lies in the middle of the hurricane belt and
subject to severe storms from June to October; occasional flooding
and earthquakes; periodic droughts

Environment - current issues: extensive deforestation (much of the
remaining forested land is being cleared for agriculture and used as
fuel); soil erosion; inadequate supplies of potable water

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Desertification, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping,
Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer Protection

signed, but not ratified:  Hazardous Wastes, Nuclear Test Ban

Geography - note: shares island of Hispaniola with Dominican
Republic (western one-third is Haiti, eastern two-thirds is the
Dominican Republic)



Haiti    People

Population: 6,964,549

note:  estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
life expectancy, higher infant mortality and death rates, lower
population and growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  40.31% (male 1,421,945; female 1,385,580)

15-64 years:  55.52% (male 1,869,323; female 1,997,246)

65 years and over:  4.17% (male 140,556; female 149,899) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 1.4% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 31.68 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 15 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: -2.64 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.03 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  0.94 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.94 male(s)/female

total population:  0.97 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 95.23 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  49.38 years

male:  47.67 years

female:  51.17 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 4.4 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 5.17% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 210,000 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: 23,000 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Haitian(s)

adjective:  Haitian

Ethnic groups: black 95%, mulatto and white 5%

Religions: Roman Catholic 80%, Protestant 16% (Baptist 10%,
Pentecostal 4%, Adventist 1%, other 1%), none 1%, other 3% (1982)

note:  roughly one-half of the population also practices Voodoo

Languages: French (official), Creole (official)

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  45%

male:  48%

female:  42.2% (1995 est.)



Haiti    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Republic of Haiti

conventional short form:  Haiti

local long form:  Republique d'Haiti

local short form:  Haiti

Government type: elected government

Capital: Port-au-Prince

Administrative divisions: 9 departments (departements, singular -
departement); Artibonite, Centre, Grand'Anse, Nord, Nord-Est,
Nord-Ouest, Ouest, Sud, Sud-Est

Independence: 1 January 1804 (from France)

National holiday: Independence Day, 1 January (1804)

Constitution: approved March 1987; suspended June 1988, with most
articles reinstated March 1989; in October 1991, government claimed
to be observing the constitution; return to constitutional rule,
October 1994

Legal system: based on Roman civil law system; accepts compulsory
ICJ jurisdiction

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Jean-Bertrand ARISTIDE
(since 7 February 2001)

head of government:  Prime Minister Jean-Marie CHERESTAL (since 9
February 2001)

cabinet:  Cabinet chosen by the prime minister in consultation with
the president

elections:  president elected by popular vote for a five-year term;
election last held 26 November 2000 (next to be held NA 2005); prime
minister appointed by the president, ratified by the Congress

election results:  Jean-Bertrand ARISTIDE elected president; percent
of vote - Jean-Bertrand ARISTIDE 92%

Legislative branch: bicameral National Assembly or Assemblee
Nationale consists of the Senate (27 seats; members serve six-year
terms; one-third elected every two years) and the Chamber of
Deputies (83 seats; members are elected by popular vote to serve
four-year terms)

elections:  Senate - last held for two-thirds of seats 21 May 2000,
with runoffs on 9 July boycotted by the opposition; about eight
seats still disputed; election for remaining one-third held on 26
November 2000 (next to be held NA 2002); Chamber of Deputies - last
held 21 May 2000, with runoffs on 30 July boycotted by the
opposition; one vacant seat rerun 26 November 2000 (next election NA
2004)

election results:  Senate - percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by
party - FL 26, independent 1; Chamber of Deputies - percent of vote
by party - NA%; seats by party - FL 73, OPL 1, other minor parties
and independents 9

Judicial branch: Supreme Court or Cour de Cassation

Political parties and leaders: Alliance for the Liberation and
Advancement of Haiti or ALAH [Reynold GEORGES]; Assembly of
Progressive National Democrats or RDNP [Leslie MANIGAT]; Convergence
(opposition coalition composed of ESPACE, OPL, and MOCHRENA) [Gerard
PIERRE-CHARLES, Evans PAUL, Luc MESADIEU, Victor BENOIT]; Democratic
Consultation Group coalition or ESPACE [Evans PAUL, Victor Benoit]
composed of the following parties: National Congress of Democratic
Movements or KONAKOM, National Progressive Revolutionary Party or
PANPRA, Generation 2004, and Haiti Can; Haitian Christian Democratic
Party or PDCH [Marie-France CLAUDE]; Haitian Democratic Party or
PADEM [Clark PARENT]; Lavalas Family or FL [Jean-Bertrand ARISTIDE];
Mobilization for National Development or MDN [Hubert DE RONCERAY];
Movement for National Reconstruction or MRN [Rene THEODORE];
Movement for the Installation of Democracy in Haiti or MIDH [Marc
BAZIN]; Movement for the Organization of the Country or MOP [Gesner
COMEAU and Jean MOLIERE]; National Front for Change and Democracy or
FNCD [Evans PAUL and Turneb DELPE]; New Christian Movement for a New
Haiti or MOCHRENA [Luc MESADIEU]; Struggling People's Organization
or OPL [Gerard PIERRE-CHARLES]

Political pressure groups and leaders: Autonomous Haitian Workers or
CATH; Confederation of Haitian Workers or CTH; Federation of Workers
Trade Unions or FOS; National Popular Assembly or APN; Papaye
Peasants Movement or MPP; Popular Organizations Gathering Power or
PROP; Roman Catholic Church

International organization participation: ACCT, ACP, Caricom
(observer), CCC, ECLAC, FAO, G-77, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICRM,
IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM,
ITU, LAES, OAS, OPANAL, OPCW, PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU,
WCL, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
(vacant); Charge d'Affaires Louis Harold JOSEPH

chancery:  2311 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone:  [1] (202) 332-4090

FAX:  [1] (202) 745-7215

consulate(s) general:  Boston, Chicago, Miami, New York, and San
Juan (Puerto Rico)

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Brian Dean CURRAN

embassy:  5 Harry Truman Boulevard, Port-au-Prince

mailing address:  P. O. Box 1761, Port-au-Prince

telephone:  [509] 222-0354, 222-0269, 222-0200, 223-4776

FAX:  [509] 23-1641

Flag description: two equal horizontal bands of blue (top) and red
with a centered white rectangle bearing the coat of arms, which
contains a palm tree flanked by flags and two cannons above a scroll
bearing the motto L'UNION FAIT LA FORCE (Union Makes Strength)



Haiti    Economy

Economy - overview: About 80% of the population lives in abject
poverty. Nearly 70% of all Haitians depend on the agriculture
sector, which consists mainly of small-scale subsistence farming and
employs about two-thirds of the economically active work force. The
country has experienced little job creation since the former
President PREVAL took office in February 1996, although the informal
economy is growing. Following legislative elections in May 2000,
fraught with irregularities, international donors - including the US
and EU - suspended almost all aid to Haiti. This destabilized the
Haitian currency, the gourde, and, combined with a 40% fuel price
hike in September, caused widespread price increases. Prices appear
to have leveled off in January 2001.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $12.7 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 1.2% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $1,800 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  32%

industry:  20%

services:  48% (1999 est.)

Population below poverty line: 80% (1998 est.)

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 19% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 3.6 million (1995)

note:  shortage of skilled labor, unskilled labor abundant (1998)

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture 66%, services 25%, industry
9%

Unemployment rate: widespread unemployment and underemployment; more
than two-thirds of the labor force do not have formal jobs (1999)

Budget: revenues:  $317 million

expenditures:  $362 million, including capital expenditures of $84
million (FY99/00 est.)

Industries: sugar refining, flour milling, textiles, cement,
tourism, light assembly industries based on imported parts

Industrial production growth rate: 0.6% (1997 est.)

Electricity - production: 672 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  52.83%

hydro:  47.17%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 625 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: coffee, mangoes, sugarcane, rice, corn,
sorghum; wood

Exports: $186 million (f.o.b., 1999)

Exports - commodities: manufactures, coffee, oils, mangoes

Exports - partners: US 89%, EU 8% (1999)

Imports: $1.2 billion (c.i.f., 1999)

Imports - commodities: food, machinery and transport equipment,
fuels, raw materials

Imports - partners: US 60%, EU 13% (1999)

Debt - external: $1 billion (1998 est.)

Economic aid - recipient: $730.6 million (1995)

Currency: gourde (HTG)

Currency code: HTG

Exchange rates: gourdes per US dollar - 23.761 (January 2001),
22.524 (2000), 17.965 (1999), 16.505 (1998), 17.311 (1997), 15.093
(1996)

Fiscal year: 1 October - 30 September



Haiti    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 60,000 (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 0 (1995)

Telephone system: general assessment:  domestic facilities barely
adequate; international facilities slightly better

domestic:  coaxial cable and microwave radio relay trunk service

international:  satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 41, FM 26, shortwave 0 (1999)

Radios: 415,000 (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 2 (plus a cable TV service) (1997)

Televisions: 38,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .ht

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 3 (2000)

Internet users: 6,000 (2000)



Haiti    Transportation

Railways: total:  40 km (single track; privately owned industrial
line) - closed in early 1990s

narrow gauge:  40 km 0.760-m gauge

Highways: total:  4,160 km

paved:  1,011 km

unpaved:  3,149 km (1996)

Waterways: NEGL; less than 100 km navigable

Ports and harbors: Cap-Haitien, Gonaives, Jacmel, Jeremie, Les
Cayes, Miragoane, Port-au-Prince, Port-de-Paix, Saint-Marc

Merchant marine: none (2000 est.)

Airports: 13 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  3

2,438 to 3,047 m:  1

914 to 1,523 m:  2 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  10

914 to 1,523 m:  2

under 914 m:  8 (2000 est.)



Haiti    Military

Military branches: Haitian National Police (HNP)

note:  the regular Haitian Army, Navy, and Air Force have been
demobilized but still exist on paper until constitutionally abolished

Military manpower - military age: 18 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  1,635,253 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
888,305 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  87,049
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $NA; note - mainly for police
and security activities

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: NA%



Haiti    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: claims US-administered Navassa Island

Illicit drugs: major Caribbean transshipment point for cocaine en
route to the US and Europe; vulnerable to money laundering

======================================================================

@Heard Island and McDonald Islands





Heard Island and McDonald Islands    Introduction

Background: These uninhabited, barren islands were transferred from
the UK to Australia in 1947. Populated by large numbers of seal and
bird species, the islands have been designated a nature preserve.



Heard Island and McDonald Islands    Geography

Location: Southern Africa, islands in the Indian Ocean, about
two-thirds of the way from Madagascar to Antarctica

Geographic coordinates: 53 06 S, 72 31 E

Map references: Antarctic Region

Area: total:  412 sq km

land:  412 sq km

water:  0 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly more than two times the size of
Washington, DC

Land boundaries: 0 km

Coastline: 101.9 km

Maritime claims: exclusive fishing zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  3 NM

Climate: antarctic

Terrain: Heard Island - bleak and mountainous, with a quiescent
volcano; McDonald Islands - small and rocky

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Southern Ocean 0 m

highest point:  Big Ben 2,745 m

Natural resources: none

Land use: arable land:  0%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  0%

forests and woodland:  0%

other:  100%

Irrigated land: 0 sq km (1993)

Natural hazards: Heard Island is dominated by a dormant volcano
called Big Ben

Environment - current issues: NA

Geography - note: primarily used for research stations



Heard Island and McDonald Islands    People

Population: uninhabited (July 2001 est.)



Heard Island and McDonald Islands    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Territory of Heard Island and
McDonald Islands

conventional short form:  Heard Island and McDonald Islands

Dependency status: territory of Australia; administered from
Canberra by the Department of the Environment, Sport, and Territories

Legal system: the laws of Australia, where applicable, apply

Diplomatic representation in the US: none (territory of Australia)

Diplomatic representation from the US: none (territory of Australia)

Flag description: the flag of Australia is used



Heard Island and McDonald Islands    Economy

Economy - overview: no economic activity



Heard Island and McDonald Islands    Communications

Internet country code: .hm



Heard Island and McDonald Islands    Transportation

Waterways: none

Ports and harbors: none; offshore anchorage only



Heard Island and McDonald Islands    Military

Military - note: defense is the responsibility of Australia



Heard Island and McDonald Islands    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

======================================================================

@Holy See (Vatican City)




Holy See (Vatican City)    Introduction

Background: Popes in their secular role ruled much of the Italian
peninsula for more than a thousand years until the mid 19th century,
when many of the Papal States were seized by the newly united
Kingdom of Italy. In 1870, the pope's holdings were further
circumscribed when Rome itself was annexed. Disputes between a
series of "prisoner" popes and Italy were resolved in 1929 by three
Lateran Treaties, which established the independent state of Vatican
City and granted Roman Catholicism special status in Italy. In 1984,
a concordat between the Vatican and Italy modified certain of the
earlier treaty provisions, including the primacy of Roman
Catholicism as the Italian state religion. Present concerns of the
Holy See include the failing health of Pope John Paul II,
interreligious dialogue and reconciliation, and the adjustment of
church doctrine in an era of rapid change and globalization. About 1
billion people worldwide profess the Catholic faith.



Holy See (Vatican City)    Geography

Location: Southern Europe, an enclave of Rome (Italy)

Geographic coordinates: 41 54 N, 12 27 E

Map references: Europe

Area: total:  0.44 sq km

land:  0.44 sq km

water:  0 sq km

Area - comparative: about 0.7 times the size of The Mall in
Washington, DC

Land boundaries: total:  3.2 km

border countries:  Italy 3.2 km

Coastline: 0 km (landlocked)

Maritime claims: none (landlocked)

Climate: temperate; mild, rainy winters (September to mid-May) with
hot, dry summers (May to September)

Terrain: low hill

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  unnamed location 19 m

highest point:  unnamed location 75 m

Natural resources: none

Land use: arable land:  0%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  0%

forests and woodland:  0%

other:  100% (urban area)

Irrigated land: 0 sq km (1993)

Natural hazards: NA

Environment - current issues: NA

Environment - international agreements: party to:  none of the
selected agreements

signed, but not ratified:  Air Pollution, Environmental Modification

Geography - note: urban; landlocked; enclave of Rome, Italy; world's
smallest state; outside the Vatican City, 13 buildings in Rome and
Castel Gandolfo (the pope's summer residence) enjoy extraterritorial
rights



Holy See (Vatican City)    People

Population: 890 (July 2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 1.15% (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: NA%

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: NA

HIV/AIDS - deaths: NA

Nationality: noun:  none

adjective:  none

Ethnic groups: Italians, Swiss, other

Religions: Roman Catholic

Languages: Italian, Latin, French, various other languages

Literacy: definition:  NA

total population:  100%

male:  NA%

female:  NA%



Holy See (Vatican City)    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  The Holy See (State of the
Vatican City)

conventional short form:  Holy See (Vatican City)

local long form:  Santa Sede (Stato della Citta del Vaticano)

local short form:  Santa Sede (Citta del Vaticano)

Government type: ecclesiastical

Capital: Vatican City

Independence: 11 February 1929 (from Italy)

National holiday: Coronation Day of Pope JOHN PAUL II, 22 October
(1978)

Constitution: Apostolic Constitution of 1967 (effective 1 March 1968)

Legal system: NA

Suffrage: limited to cardinals less than 80 years old

Executive branch: chief of state:  Pope JOHN PAUL II (since 16
October 1978)

head of government:  Secretary of State Cardinal Angelo SODANO
(since 2 December 1990)

cabinet:  Pontifical Commission appointed by the pope

elections:  pope elected for life by the College of Cardinals;
election last held 16 October 1978 (next to be held after the death
of the current pope); secretary of state appointed by the pope

election results:  Karol WOJTYLA elected pope

Legislative branch: unicameral Pontifical Commission

Judicial branch: none; normally handled by Italy

Political parties and leaders: none

Political pressure groups and leaders: none (exclusive of influence
exercised by church officers)

International organization participation: CE (observer), IAEA,
ICFTU, Intelsat, IOM (observer), ITU, NAM (guest), OAS (observer),
OPCW, OSCE, UN (observer), UNCTAD, UNHCR, UPU, WHO (observer), WIPO,
WToO (observer), WTrO (observer)

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Apostolic
Nuncio Archbishop Gabriele MONTALVO

chancery:  3339 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone:  [1] (202) 333-7121

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
(vacant)

embassy:  Villa Domiziana, Via delle Terme Deciane 26, 00162 Rome

mailing address:  PSC 59, Box F, APO AE 09624

telephone:  [39] (06) 4674-3428

FAX:  [39] (06) 5758346

Flag description: two vertical bands of yellow (hoist side) and
white with the crossed keys of Saint Peter and the papal miter
centered in the white band



Holy See (Vatican City)    Economy

Economy - overview: This unique, noncommercial economy is supported
financially by contributions (known as Peter's Pence) from Roman
Catholics throughout the world, the sale of postage stamps and
tourist mementos, fees for admission to museums, and the sale of
publications. The incomes and living standards of lay workers are
comparable to, or somewhat better than, those of counterparts who
work in the city of Rome.

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Labor force: NA

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture NA%, industry NA%, services
NA%; note - dignitaries, priests, nuns, guards, and 3,000 lay
workers live outside the Vatican

Budget: revenues:  $209.6 million

expenditures:  $198.5 million, including capital expenditures of $NA
(1997)

Industries: printing and production of a small amount of mosaics and
staff uniforms; worldwide banking and financial activities

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  NA%

hydro:  NA%

nuclear:  NA%

other:  NA%

Electricity - consumption: NA kWh

Electricity - imports: NA kWh; note - electricity supplied by Italy

Economic aid - recipient: none

Currency: Italian lira (ITL); euro (EUR)

Currency code: ITL; EUR

Exchange rates: euros per US dollar - 1.0659 (January 2001), 1.0854
(2000), 0.9386 (1999); Vatican lire per US dollar - 2,099 (2000),
1817.2 (1999), 1,736.2 (1998), 1,703.1 (1997), 1,542.9 (1996); note
- the Vatican lira is at par with the Italian lira; the Vatican will
start using euros in 2002 in conjunction with Italy at a fixed rate
of 1,936.17 lire per euro

Fiscal year: calendar year



Holy See (Vatican City)    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: NA

Telephones - mobile cellular: NA

Telephone system: general assessment:  automatic exchange

domestic:  tied into Italian system

international:  uses Italian system

Radio broadcast stations: AM 3, FM 4, shortwave 2 (1998)

Radios: NA

Television broadcast stations: 1 (1996)

Televisions: NA

Internet country code: .va

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 93 (Holy See and Italy) (2000)

Internet users: NA



Holy See (Vatican City)    Transportation

Railways: total:  862 m; note - a spur of the Italian Railways
system, serving Rome's Saint Peter's station

standard gauge:  862 m 1.435-m gauge (1999)

Highways: none; all city streets

Waterways: none

Ports and harbors: none

Airports: none

Heliports: 1 (2000 est.)



Holy See (Vatican City)    Military

Military - note: defense is the responsibility of Italy; Swiss Papal
Guards are posted at entrances to the Vatican City to provide
security and protect the Pope



Holy See (Vatican City)    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

======================================================================

@Honduras




Honduras    Introduction

Background: Part of Spain's vast empire in the New World, Honduras
became an independent nation in 1821. After two and one-half decades
of mostly military rule, a freely elected civilian government came
to power in 1982. During the 1980s, Honduras proved a haven for
anti-Sandinista contras fighting the Marxist Nicaraguan Government
and an ally to Salvadoran Government forces fighting against leftist
guerrillas.



Honduras    Geography

Location: Middle America, bordering the Caribbean Sea, between
Guatemala and Nicaragua and bordering the North Pacific Ocean,
between El Salvador and Nicaragua

Geographic coordinates: 15 00 N, 86 30 W

Map references: Central America and the Caribbean

Area: total:  112,090 sq km

land:  111,890 sq km

water:  200 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly larger than Tennessee

Land boundaries: total:  1,520 km

border countries:  Guatemala 256 km, El Salvador 342 km, Nicaragua
922 km

Coastline: 820 km

Maritime claims: contiguous zone:  24 NM

continental shelf:  natural extension of territory or to 200 NM

exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: subtropical in lowlands, temperate in mountains

Terrain: mostly mountains in interior, narrow coastal plains

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Caribbean Sea 0 m

highest point:  Cerro Las Minas 2,870 m

Natural resources: timber, gold, silver, copper, lead, zinc, iron
ore, antimony, coal, fish, hydropower

Land use: arable land:  15%

permanent crops:  3%

permanent pastures:  14%

forests and woodland:  54%

other:  14% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 740 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: frequent, but generally mild, earthquakes; damaging
hurricanes and floods along Caribbean coast

Environment - current issues: urban population expanding;
deforestation results from logging and the clearing of land for
agricultural purposes; further land degradation and soil erosion
hastened by uncontrolled development and improper land use practices
such as farming of marginal lands; mining activities polluting Lago
de Yojoa (the country's largest source of fresh water) as well as
several rivers and streams with heavy metals; severe Hurricane Mitch
damage

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification,
Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine
Dumping, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection, Tropical Timber
83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands

signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements



Honduras    People

Population: 6,406,052

note:  estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
life expectancy, higher infant mortality and death rates, lower
population and growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  42.22% (male 1,381,823; female 1,322,684)

15-64 years:  54.21% (male 1,719,593; female 1,753,003)

65 years and over:  3.57% (male 108,271; female 120,678) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 2.43% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 31.94 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 5.52 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: -2.12 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  0.98 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.9 male(s)/female

total population:  1 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 30.88 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  69.35 years

male:  67.51 years

female:  71.28 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 4.15 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 1.92% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 63,000 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: 4,200 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Honduran(s)

adjective:  Honduran

Ethnic groups: mestizo (mixed Amerindian and European) 90%,
Amerindian 7%, black 2%, white 1%

Religions: Roman Catholic 97%, Protestant minority

Languages: Spanish, Amerindian dialects

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  72.7%

male:  72.6%

female:  72.7% (1995 est.)



Honduras    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Republic of Honduras

conventional short form:  Honduras

local long form:  Republica de Honduras

local short form:  Honduras

Government type: democratic constitutional republic

Capital: Tegucigalpa

Administrative divisions: 18 departments (departamentos, singular -
departamento); Atlantida, Choluteca, Colon, Comayagua, Copan,
Cortes, El Paraiso, Francisco Morazan, Gracias a Dios, Intibuca,
Islas de la Bahia, La Paz, Lempira, Ocotepeque, Olancho, Santa
Barbara, Valle, Yoro

Independence: 15 September 1821 (from Spain)

National holiday: Independence Day, 15 September (1821)

Constitution: 11 January 1982, effective 20 January 1982; amended
1995

Legal system: rooted in Roman and Spanish civil law with increasing
influence of English common law; recent judicial reforms include
abandoning Napoleonic legal codes in favor of the oral adversarial
system; accepts ICJ jurisdiction, with reservations

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal and compulsory

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Carlos Roberto FLORES
Facusse (since 27 January 1998); note - the president is both the
chief of state and head of government; First Vice President William
HANDAL (since NA); Second Vice President Gladys CABALLERO de Arevalo
(since NA); Third Vice President Hector Vidal CERRATO Hernandez
(since NA)

head of government:  President Carlos Roberto FLORES Facusse (since
27 January 1998); note - the president is both the chief of state
and head of government; First Vice President William HANDAL (since
NA); Second Vice President Gladys CABALLERO de Arevalo (since NA);
Third Vice President Hector Vidal CERRATO Hernandez (since NA)

cabinet:  Cabinet appointed by president

elections:  president elected by popular vote for a four-year term;
election last held 30 November 1997 (next to be held 25 November
2001)

election results:  Carlos Roberto FLORES Facusse elected president;
percent of vote - Carlos Roberto FLORES Facusse (PL) 50%, Nora de
MELGAR (PN) 40%, other 10%

Legislative branch: unicameral National Congress or Congreso
Nacional (128 seats; members are elected proportionally to the
number of votes their party's presidential candidate receives to
serve four-year terms)

elections:  last held on 30 November 1997 (next to be held 25
November 2001)

election results:  percent of vote by party - PL 46%, PN 38%,
PINU-SD 4%, PDC 2%, PUD 2%; seats by party - PL 67, PN 55, PINU-SD
3, PDC 2, PUD 1

Judicial branch: Supreme Court of Justice or Corte Suprema de
Justicia (judges are elected for four-year terms by the National
Congress)

Political parties and leaders: Christian Democratic Party or PDC
[Efrain DIAZ Arrivillaga, president]; Democratic Unification Party
or PUD [Marias FUNES Valladares, president]; Liberal Party or PL
[Carlos Roberto FLORES Facusse, president]; National Innovation and
Unity Party-Social Democratic Party or PINU-SD [Olban VALLADARES,
president]; National Party of Honduras or PN [Carlos URBIZO,
president]

Political pressure groups and leaders: Committee for the Defense of
Human Rights in Honduras or CODEH; Confederation of Honduran Workers
or CTH; Coordinating Committee of Popular Organizations or CCOP;
General Workers Confederation or CGT; Honduran Council of Private
Enterprise or COHEP; National Association of Honduran Campesinos or
ANACH; National Union of Campesinos or UNC; Popular Bloc or BP;
United Federation of Honduran Workers or FUTH

International organization participation: BCIE, CACM, ECLAC, FAO,
G-77, IADB, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO,
IMF, IMO, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO (correspondent), ITU,
LAES, LAIA (observer), MINURSO, NAM, OAS, OPANAL, OPCW, PCA, UN,
UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTrO

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Hugo NOE PINO

chancery:  Suite 4-M, 3007 Tilden Street NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone:  [1] (202) 966-7702

FAX:  [1] (202) 966-9751

consulate(s) general:  Chicago, Houston, Los Angeles, Miami, New
Orleans, New York, San Francisco, San Juan (Puerto Rico)

honorary consulate(s):  Boston, Detroit, and Jacksonville

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Frank ALMAGUER

embassy:  Avenida La Paz, Apartado Postal No. 3453, Tegucigalpa

mailing address:  American Embassy, APO AA 34022, Tegucigalpa

telephone:  [504] 238-5114, 236-9320

FAX:  [504] 236-9037

Flag description: three equal horizontal bands of blue (top), white,
and blue with five blue five-pointed stars arranged in an X pattern
centered in the white band; the stars represent the members of the
former Federal Republic of Central America - Costa Rica, El
Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, and Nicaragua; similar to the flag of
El Salvador, which features a round emblem encircled by the words
REPUBLICA DE EL SALVADOR EN LA AMERICA CENTRAL centered in the white
band; also similar to the flag of Nicaragua, which features a
triangle encircled by the word REPUBLICA DE NICARAGUA on top and
AMERICA CENTRAL on the bottom, centered in the white band



Honduras    Economy

Economy - overview: Honduras, one of the poorest countries in the
Western Hemisphere, is banking on expanded trade privileges under
the Enhanced Caribbean Basin Initiative and on debt relief under the
Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) initiative. While
reconstruction from 1998's Hurricane Mitch is at an advanced stage,
and the country has met most of its macroeconomic targets, it failed
to meet the IMF's goals to liberalize its energy and
telecommunications sectors. Economic growth has rebounded nicely
since the hurricane and should continue in 2001.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $17 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 5% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $2,700 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  16.2%

industry:  31.9%

services:  51.9% (1999 est.)

Population below poverty line: 53% (1993 est.)

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:
1.2%

highest 10%:  42.1% (1996)

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 11% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 2.3 million (1997 est.)

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture 29%, industry 21%, services
50% (1998 est.)

Unemployment rate: 28% (2000 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $607 million

expenditures:  $411.9 million, including capital expenditures of
$106 million (1999 est.)

Industries: sugar, coffee, textiles, clothing, wood products

Industrial production growth rate: 4% (1999 est.)

Electricity - production: 3.319 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  44.71%

hydro:  55.29%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 3.232 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 145 million kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: bananas, coffee, citrus; beef; timber; shrimp

Exports: $2 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Exports - commodities: coffee, bananas, shrimp, lobster, meat; zinc,
lumber

Exports - partners: US 35.4%, Germany 7.5%, El Salvador 6.4%,
Guatemala 5.8%, Nicaragua 4.8% (1999)

Imports: $2.8 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Imports - commodities: machinery and transport equipment, industrial
raw materials, chemical products, fuels, foodstuffs

Imports - partners: US 47.1%, Guatemala 7.4%, El Salvador 5.9%,
Mexico 4.8%, Japan 4.7% (1999)

Debt - external: $5.4 billion (2000)

Economic aid - recipient: $557.8 million (1999)

Currency: lempira (HNL)

Currency code: HNL

Exchange rates: lempiras per US dollar - 15.1407 (December 2000),
15.1407 (2000), 14.5039 (1999), 13.8076 (1998), 13.0942 (1997),
12.8694 (1996)

Fiscal year: calendar year



Honduras    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 234,000 (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 14,427 (1997)

Telephone system: general assessment:  inadequate system

domestic:  NA

international:  satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat (Atlantic
Ocean); connected to Central American Microwave System

Radio broadcast stations: AM 241, FM 53, shortwave 12 (1998)

Radios: 2.45 million (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 11 (plus 17 repeaters) (1997)

Televisions: 570,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .hn

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 8 (2000)

Internet users: 20,000 (2000)



Honduras    Transportation

Railways: total:  595 km

narrow gauge:  349 km 1.067-m gauge; 246 km 0.914-m gauge (1999)

Highways: total:  15,400 km

paved:  3,126 km

unpaved:  12,274 km (1999 est.)

Waterways: 465 km (navigable by small craft)

Ports and harbors: La Ceiba, Puerto Castilla, Puerto Cortes, San
Lorenzo, Tela, Puerto Lempira

Merchant marine: total:  313 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
760,819 GRT/820,582 DWT

ships by type:  bulk 21, cargo 187, chemical tanker 7, container 4,
livestock carrier 2, passenger 2, passenger/cargo 4, petroleum
tanker 52, refrigerated cargo 17, roll on/roll off 8, short-sea
passenger 5, specialized tanker 2, vehicle carrier 2

note:  includes some foreign-owned ships registered here as a flag
of convenience: Russia 4, Singapore 2, Vietnam 1 (2000 est.)

Airports: 119 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  12

2,438 to 3,047 m:  3

1,524 to 2,437 m:  2

914 to 1,523 m:  4

under 914 m:  3 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  107

1,524 to 2,437 m:  2

914 to 1,523 m:  21

under 914 m:  84 (2000 est.)



Honduras    Military

Military branches: Army, Navy (includes Marines), Air Force

Military manpower - military age: 18 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  1,515,101 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
902,220 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  72,335
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $35 million (FY99)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 0.6% (FY99)



Honduras    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: with respect to the maritime boundary in
the Golfo de Fonseca, the ICJ referred to the line determined by the
1900 Honduras-Nicaragua Mixed Boundary Commission and advised that
some tripartite resolution among El Salvador, Honduras, and
Nicaragua likely would be required; the maritime boundary dispute
with Nicaragua in the Caribbean Sea is before the ICJ

Illicit drugs: transshipment point for drugs and narcotics; illicit
producer of cannabis, cultivated on small plots and used principally
for local consumption; corruption is a major problem; vulnerable to
money laundering

======================================================================

@Hong Kong





Hong Kong    Introduction

Background: Occupied by the UK in 1841, Hong Kong was formally ceded
by China the following year; various adjacent lands were added later
in the 19th century. Pursuant to an agreement signed by China and
the UK on 19 December 1984, Hong Kong became the Hong Kong Special
Administrative Region (SAR) of China on 1 July 1997. In this
agreement, China has promised that, under its "one country, two
systems" formula, China's socialist economic system will not be
practiced in Hong Kong and that Hong Kong will enjoy a high degree
of autonomy in all matters except foreign and defense affairs for
the next 50 years.



Hong Kong    Geography

Location: Eastern Asia, bordering the South China Sea and China

Geographic coordinates: 22 15 N, 114 10 E

Map references: Southeast Asia

Area: total:  1,092 sq km

land:  1,042 sq km

water:  50 sq km

Area - comparative: six times the size of Washington, DC

Land boundaries: total:  30 km

border countries:  China 30 km

Coastline: 733 km

Maritime claims: territorial sea:  3 NM

Climate: tropical monsoon; cool and humid in winter, hot and rainy
from spring through summer, warm and sunny in fall

Terrain: hilly to mountainous with steep slopes; lowlands in north

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  South China Sea 0 m

highest point:  Tai Mo Shan 958 m

Natural resources: outstanding deepwater harbor, feldspar

Land use: arable land:  6%

permanent crops:  1%

permanent pastures:  1%

forests and woodland:  20%

other:  72% (1997 est.)

Irrigated land: 20 sq km (1997 est.)

Natural hazards: occasional typhoons

Environment - current issues: air and water pollution from rapid
urbanization

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Marine Dumping
(associate member), Ship Pollution (associate member)

Geography - note: more than 200 islands



Hong Kong    People

Population: 7,210,505 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  17.73% (male 677,785; female 600,781)

15-64 years:  71.52% (male 2,554,329; female 2,602,662)

65 years and over:  10.75% (male 354,199; female 420,749) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 1.3% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 11.13 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 6.02 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 7.9 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.07 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.13 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  0.98 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.84 male(s)/female

total population:  0.99 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 5.83 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  79.67 years

male:  76.97 years

female:  82.55 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 1.29 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 0.06% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 2,500 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: less than 100 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Chinese

adjective:  Chinese

Ethnic groups: Chinese 95%, other 5%

Religions: eclectic mixture of local religions 90%, Christian 10%

Languages: Chinese (Cantonese), English; both are official

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over has ever attended school

total population:  92.2%

male:  96%

female:  88.2% (1996 est.)



Hong Kong    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Hong Kong Special
Administrative Region

conventional short form:  Hong Kong

local long form:  Xianggang Tebie Xingzhengqu

local short form:  Xianggang

abbreviation:  HK

Dependency status: special administrative region of China

Government type: NA

Administrative divisions: none (special administrative region of
China)

Independence: none (special administrative region of China)

National holiday: National Day (Anniversary of the Founding of the
People's Republic of China), 1 October (1949); note - 1 July 1997 is
celebrated as Hong Kong Special Administrative Region Establishment
Day

Constitution: Basic Law approved in March 1990 by China's National
People's Congress is Hong Kong's "mini-constitution"

Legal system: based on English common law

Suffrage: direct election 18 years of age; universal for permanent
residents living in the territory of Hong Kong for the past seven
years; indirect election limited to about 100,000 members of
functional constituencies and an 800-member election committee drawn
from broad regional groupings, municipal organizations, and central
government bodies

Executive branch: chief of state:  President of China JIANG Zemin
(since 27 March 1993)

head of government:  Chief Executive TUNG Chee-hwa (since 1 July
1997)

cabinet:  Executive Council consists of three ex-officio members and
10 appointed members; ex-officio members are: Chief Secretary Anson
CHAN (since 29 November 1993), Financial Secretary Donald TSANG
(since 7 March 1995), and Secretary of Justice Elsie LEUNG (since 1
July 1997)

elections:  NA

Legislative branch: unicameral Legislative Council or LEGCO (60
seats; 30 indirectly elected by functional constituencies, 24
elected by popular vote, and 6 elected by an 800-member election
committee; members serve four-year terms)

elections:  last held 10 September 2000 (next to be held NA 2004)

election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
Democratic Party 12, Democratic Alliance for the Betterment of Hong
Kong 10, Liberal Party 7, Frontier Party 5, Hong Kong Progressive
Alliance 4, New Century Forum 2, Hong Kong Association for Democracy
and People's Livelihood 1, independents 19

Judicial branch: The Court of Final Appeal in the Hong Kong Special
Administrative Region

Political parties and leaders: Association for Democracy and
People's Livelihood [Frederick FUNG Kin-kee, chairman]; Citizens
Party [leader NA]; Democratic Alliance for the Betterment of Hong
Kong [Jasper TSANG Yok-sing, chairman]; Democratic Party [Martin LEE
Chu-ming, chairman]; Frontier Party [Emily LAU Wai-hing,
chairwoman]; Hong Kong Association for Democracy and People's
Livelihood [leader NA]; Hong Kong Progressive Alliance [Ambrose LAU
Hon-chuen]; Liberal Party [James TIEN Pei-chun, chairman]; New
Century Forum [NQ Ching-fai, chairman]

note:  political blocs include: pro-democracy - Association for
Democracy and People's Livelihood, Citizens Party, Democratic Party,
Frontier Party; pro-Beijing - Democratic Alliance for the Betterment
of Hong Kong, Hong Kong Progressive Alliance, Liberal Party, New
Century Forum

Political pressure groups and leaders: Chinese General Chamber of
Commerce (pro-China); Chinese Manufacturers' Association of Hong
Kong; Confederation of Trade Unions (pro-democracy) [LAU Chin-shek,
president; LEE Cheuk-yan, general secretary]; Federation of Hong
Kong Industries; Federation of Trade Unions (pro-China) [LEE
Chark-tim, president]; Hong Kong Alliance in Support of the
Patriotic Democratic Movement in China [Szeto WAH, chairman]; Hong
Kong and Kowloon Trade Union Council (pro-Taiwan); Hong Kong General
Chamber of Commerce; Hong Kong Professional Teachers' Union [CHEUNG
Man-kwong, president]; Liberal Democratic Federation [HU Fa-kuang,
chairman]

International organization participation: APEC, AsDB, BIS, CCC,
ESCAP (associate), ICC, ICFTU, IMO (associate), Interpol
(subbureau), IOC, ISO (correspondent), WCL, WMO, WToO (associate),
WTrO

Diplomatic representation in the US: none (special administrative
region of China)

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Consul
General Michael KLOSSON

consulate(s) general:  26 Garden Road, Hong Kong

mailing address:  PSC 464, Box 30, FPO AP 96522-0002

telephone:  [852] 2523-9011

FAX:  [852] 2845-1598

Flag description: red with a stylized, white, five-petal bauhinia
flower in the center



Hong Kong    Economy

Economy - overview: Hong Kong has a bustling free market economy
highly dependent on international trade. Natural resources are
limited, and food and raw materials must be imported. Indeed,
imports and exports, including reexports, each exceed GDP in dollar
value. Even before Hong Kong reverted to Chinese administration on 1
July 1997 it had extensive trade and investment ties with China. Per
capita GDP compares with the level in the four big countries of
Western Europe. GDP growth averaged a strong 5% in 1989-97. The
widespread Asian economic difficulties in 1998 hit this
trade-dependent economy quite hard, with GDP down 5%. The economy is
undergoing a rapid recovery, with growth of 10% in 2000 to be
followed by projected growth of 5% in 2001.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $181 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 10% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $25,400 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  0.1%

industry:  14.3%

services:  85.6% (1999 est.)

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 3.7% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 3.39 million (2000 est.)

Labor force - by occupation: wholesale and retail trade,
restaurants, and hotels 31.5%, community and social services 24%,
financing, insurance, and real estate 14.5%, transport and
communications 11.6%, manufacturing 7.7%, construction 2.6% (October
1999)

Unemployment rate: 4.5% (2000 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $20.8 billion

expenditures:  $24.5 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
(FY99/00)

Industries: textiles, clothing, tourism, electronics, plastics,
toys, watches, clocks

Industrial production growth rate: 2.1% (2000)

Electricity - production: 27.726 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  100%

hydro:  0%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 32.202 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 633 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 7.05 billion kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: fresh vegetables; poultry

Exports: $204 billion (including reexports; f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Exports - commodities: clothing, textiles, footwear, electrical
appliances, watches and clocks, toys

Exports - partners: China 33%, US 24%, Japan 5%, UK 4%, Germany,
Singapore (1999)

Imports: $215 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Imports - commodities: foodstuffs, transport equipment, raw
materials, semimanufactures, petroleum; a large share is reexported

Imports - partners: China 44%, Japan 12%, US 7%, Taiwan 7%, South
Korea, Singapore (1999)

Debt - external: $48.1 billion (1999)

Currency: Hong Kong dollar (HKD)

Currency code: HKD

Exchange rates: Hong Kong dollars per US dollar - 7.7990 (January
2001), 7.7912 (2000), 7.7575 (1999), 7.7453 (1998), 7.7421 (1997),
7.7343 (1996); note - Hong Kong became a special administrative
region of China on 1 July 1997; before then, the Hong Kong dollar
was linked to the US dollar at the rate of about 7.8 Hong Kong
dollars per US dollar

Fiscal year: 1 April - 31 March



Hong Kong    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 3.839 million (1999)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 3.7 million (December 1999)

Telephone system: general assessment:  modern facilities provide
excellent domestic and international services

domestic:  microwave radio relay links and extensive fiber-optic
network

international:  satellite earth stations - 3 Intelsat (1 Pacific
Ocean and 2 Indian Ocean); coaxial cable to Guangzhou, China; access
to 5 international submarine cables providing connections to ASEAN
member nations, Japan, Taiwan, Australia, Middle East, and Western
Europe

Radio broadcast stations: AM 7, FM 13, shortwave 0 (1998)

Radios: 4.45 million (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 4 (plus two repeaters) (1997)

Televisions: 1.84 million (1997)

Internet country code: .hk

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 17 (2000)

Internet users: 1.85 million (2000)



Hong Kong    Transportation

Railways: total:  34 km

standard gauge:  34 km 1.435-m gauge (all electrified) (1996 est.)

Highways: total:  1,831 km

paved:  1,831 km

unpaved:  0 km (1997)

Waterways: none

Ports and harbors: Hong Kong

Merchant marine: total:  354 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
10,330,662 GRT/17,227,315 DWT

ships by type:  barge carrier 1, bulk 208, cargo 36, chemical tanker
7, combination bulk 2, container 59, liquefied gas 6,
multi-functional large-load carrier 2, petroleum tanker 26,
refrigerated cargo 3, short-sea passenger 1, vehicle carrier 3

note:  includes some foreign-owned ships registered here as a flag
of convenience: Bermuda 2, Belgium 1, Canada 2, China 9, Japan 3,
Mongolia 1, Norway 1, South Africa 1, UK 7 (2000 est.)

Airports: 3 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  3

over 3,047 m:  2

1,524 to 2,437 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Heliports: 2 (2000 est.)



Hong Kong    Military

Military branches: Hong Kong garrison of China's People's Liberation
Army (PLA) including elements of the PLA Ground Forces, PLA Navy,
and PLA Air Force; these forces are under the direct leadership of
the Central Military Commission in Beijing and under administrative
control of the adjacent Guangzhou Military Region

Military manpower - military age: 18 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  2,020,937 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
1,520,531 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  47,139
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $NA; note - separate budget
for Hong Kong not established by China

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: NA%

Military - note: defense is the responsibility of China



Hong Kong    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

Illicit drugs: a hub for Southeast Asian heroin and regional
stimulants trade; transshipment and money-laundering center;
increasing indigenous amphetamine abuse

======================================================================

@Howland Island




Howland Island    Introduction

Background: Discovered by the US early in the 19th century, the
island was officially claimed by the US in 1857. Both US and British
companies mined for guano until about 1890. Earhart Light is a day
beacon near the middle of the west coast that was partially
destroyed during World War II, but has since been rebuilt; it is
named in memory of famed aviatrix Amelia EARHART. The island is
administered by the US Department of the Interior as a National
Wildlife Refuge.



Howland Island    Geography

Location: Oceania, island in the North Pacific Ocean, about one-half
of the way from Hawaii to Australia

Geographic coordinates: 0 48 N, 176 38 W

Map references: Oceania

Area: total:  1.6 sq km

land:  1.6 sq km

water:  0 sq km

Area - comparative: about three times the size of The Mall in
Washington, DC

Land boundaries: 0 km

Coastline: 6.4 km

Maritime claims: exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: equatorial; scant rainfall, constant wind, burning sun

Terrain: low-lying, nearly level, sandy, coral island surrounded by
a narrow fringing reef; depressed central area

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Pacific Ocean 0 m

highest point:  unnamed location 3 m

Natural resources: guano (deposits worked until late 1800s),
terrestrial and aquatic wildlife

Land use: arable land:  0%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  0%

forests and woodland:  5%

other:  95%

Irrigated land: 0 sq km (1998)

Natural hazards: the narrow fringing reef surrounding the island can
be a maritime hazard

Environment - current issues: no natural fresh water resources

Geography - note: almost totally covered with grasses, prostrate
vines, and low-growing shrubs; small area of trees in the center;
primarily a nesting, roosting, and foraging habitat for seabirds,
shorebirds, and marine wildlife



Howland Island    People

Population: uninhabited

note:  American civilians evacuated in 1942 after Japanese air and
naval attacks during World War II; occupied by US military during
World War II, but abandoned after the war; public entry is by
special-use permit from US Fish and Wildlife Service only and
generally restricted to scientists and educators; visited annually
by US Fish and Wildlife Service (July 2001 est.)



Howland Island    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  none

conventional short form:  Howland Island

Dependency status: unincorporated territory of the US; administered
from Washington, DC, by the Fish and Wildlife Service of the US
Department of the Interior as part of the National Wildlife Refuge
system

Legal system: the laws of the US, where applicable, apply

Flag description: the flag of the US is used



Howland Island    Economy

Economy - overview: no economic activity



Howland Island    Transportation

Waterways: none

Ports and harbors: none; offshore anchorage only; note - there is
one small boat landing area along the middle of the west coast

Airports: airstrip constructed in 1937 for scheduled refueling stop
on the round-the-world flight of Amelia EARHART and Fred NOONAN -
they left Lae, New Guinea, for Howland Island, but were never seen
again; the airstrip is no longer serviceable (2000 est.)

Transportation - note: Earhart Light is a day beacon near the middle
of the west coast that was partially destroyed during World War II,
but has since been rebuilt; named in memory of famed aviatrix Amelia
EARHART



Howland Island    Military

Military - note: defense is the responsibility of the US; visited
annually by the US Coast Guard



Howland Island    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

======================================================================

@Hungary




Hungary    Introduction

Background: Hungary was part of the polyglot Austro-Hungarian
Empire, which collapsed during World War I. The country fell under
communist rule following World War II. In 1956, a revolt and
announced withdrawal from the Warsaw Pact were met with a massive
military intervention by Moscow. In the more open GORBACHEV years,
Hungary led the movement to dissolve the Warsaw Pact and steadily
shifted toward multiparty democracy and a market-oriented economy.
Following the collapse of the USSR in 1991, Hungary developed close
political and economic ties to Western Europe. It joined NATO in
1999 and is a frontrunner in a future expansion of the EU.



Hungary    Geography

Location: Central Europe, northwest of Romania

Geographic coordinates: 47 00 N, 20 00 E

Map references: Europe

Area: total:  93,030 sq km

land:  92,340 sq km

water:  690 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly smaller than Indiana

Land boundaries: total:  2,009 km

border countries:  Austria 366 km, Croatia 329 km, Romania 443 km,
Yugoslavia 151 km, Slovakia 515 km, Slovenia 102 km, Ukraine 103 km

Coastline: 0 km (landlocked)

Maritime claims: none (landlocked)

Climate: temperate; cold, cloudy, humid winters; warm summers

Terrain: mostly flat to rolling plains; hills and low mountains on
the Slovakian border

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Tisza River 78 m

highest point:  Kekes 1,014 m

Natural resources: bauxite, coal, natural gas, fertile soils, arable
land

Land use: arable land:  51%

permanent crops:  3.6%

permanent pastures:  12.4%

forests and woodland:  19%

other:  14% (1999)

Irrigated land: 2,060 sq km (1993 est.)

Environment - current issues: the approximation of Hungary's
standards in waste management, energy efficiency, and air, soil, and
water pollution with environmental requirements for EU accession
will require large investments

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Air Pollution,
Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air Pollution-Sulphur 85, Air
Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds, Antarctic Treaty,
Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species,
Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Marine Dumping,
Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands

signed, but not ratified:  Air Pollution-Persistent Organic
Pollutants, Air Pollution-Sulphur 94, Antarctic-Environmental
Protocol, Law of the Sea

Geography - note: landlocked; strategic location astride main land
routes between Western Europe and Balkan Peninsula as well as
between Ukraine and Mediterranean basin



Hungary    People

Population: 10,106,017 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  16.63% (male 862,468; female 818,052)

15-64 years:  68.66% (male 3,406,717; female 3,532,008)

65 years and over:  14.71% (male 546,992; female 939,780) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: -0.32% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 9.32 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 13.21 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 0.74 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.07 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  0.96 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.58 male(s)/female

total population:  0.91 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 8.96 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  71.63 years

male:  67.28 years

female:  76.3 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 1.25 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 0.05% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 2,500 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: less than 100 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Hungarian(s)

adjective:  Hungarian

Ethnic groups: Hungarian 89.9%, Roma 4%, German 2.6%, Serb 2%,
Slovak 0.8%, Romanian 0.7%

Religions: Roman Catholic 67.5%, Calvinist 20%, Lutheran 5%, atheist
and other 7.5%

Languages: Hungarian 98.2%, other 1.8%

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  99%

male:  99%

female:  98% (1980 est.)



Hungary    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Republic of Hungary

conventional short form:  Hungary

local long form:  Magyar Koztarsasag

local short form:  Magyarorszag

Government type: parliamentary democracy

Capital: Budapest

Administrative divisions: 19 counties (megyek, singular - megye), 20
urban counties* (singular - megyei varos), and 1 capital city**
(fovaros); Bacs-Kiskun, Baranya, Bekes, Bekescsaba*,
Borsod-Abauj-Zemplen, Budapest**, Csongrad, Debrecen*, Dunaujvaros*,
Eger*, Fejer, Gyor*, Gyor-Moson-Sopron, Hajdu-Bihar, Heves,
Hodmezovasarhely*, Jasz-Nagykun-Szolnok, Kaposvar*, Kecskemet*,
Komarom-Esztergom, Miskolc*, Nagykanizsa*, Nograd, Nyiregyhaza*,
Pecs*, Pest, Somogy, Sopron*, Szabolcs-Szatmar-Bereg, Szeged*,
Szekesfehervar*, Szolnok*, Szombathely*, Tatabanya*, Tolna, Vas,
Veszprem, Veszprem*, Zala, Zalaegerszeg*

Independence: 1001 (unification by King Stephen I)

National holiday: St. Stephen's Day, 20 August

Constitution: 18 August 1949, effective 20 August 1949, revised 19
April 1972; 18 October 1989 revision ensured legal rights for
individuals and constitutional checks on the authority of the prime
minister and also established the principle of parliamentary
oversight; 1997 amendment streamlined the judicial system

Legal system: rule of law based on Western model

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  Ferenc MADL (since NA August 2000)

head of government:  Prime Minister Viktor ORBAN (since 6 July 1998)

cabinet:  Council of Ministers elected by the National Assembly on
the recommendation of the president

elections:  president elected by the National Assembly for a
five-year term; election last held 6 June 2000 (next to be held by
June 2005); prime minister elected by the National Assembly on the
recommendation of the president

election results:  Ferenc MADL elected president; percent of
legislative vote - NA% (but by a simple majority in the third round
of voting); Viktor ORBAN elected prime minister; percent of
legislative vote - NA%

note:  to be elected, the president must win two-thirds of
legislative vote in the first two rounds or a simple majority in the
third round

Legislative branch: unicameral National Assembly or Orszaggyules
(386 seats; members are elected by popular vote under a system of
proportional and direct representation to serve four-year terms)

elections:  last held on 10 and 24 May 1998 (next to be held
May/June 2002)

election results:  percent of vote by party (5% or more of the vote
required for parliamentary representation in the first round) - MSZP
32.0%, FIDESZ 28.2%, FKGP 13.8%, SZDSZ 7.9%, MIEP 5.5%, MMP 4.1%,
MDF 2.8%, KDNP 2.3%, MDNP 1.5%; seats by party - MSZP 134, FIDESZ
148, FKGP 48, SZDSZ 24, MDF 17, MIEP 14, independent 1; note -
seating as of 2000 by party - MSZP 136, FIDESZ 141, FKGP 48, SZDSZ
24, MDF 16, MIEP 12, independents 9

Judicial branch: Constitutional Court (judges are elected by the
National Assembly for nine-year terms)

Political parties and leaders: Alliance of Free Democrats or SZDSZ
[Gabor DEMSZKY]; Christian Democratic People's Party or KDNP [Gyorgy
GICZY, president]; Federation of Young Democrats-Hungarian Civic
Party or FYD-HCP [Laszlo KOVER]; note - used to be Hungarian Civic
Party or FIDESZ; Hungarian Democratic Forum or MDF [Ibolya DAVID];
Hungarian Democratic People's Party or MDNP [Erzsebet PUSZTAI,
chairman]; Hungarian Justice and Life Party or MIEP [Istvan CSURKA,
chairman]; Hungarian Socialist Party or MSZP [Laszlo KOVACS,
chairman]; Hungarian Workers' Party or MMP [Gyula THURMER,
chairman]; Independent Smallholders or FKGP [Jozsef TORGYAN,
president]

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: ABEDA, Australia Group,
BIS, CCC, CE, CEI, CERN, EAPC, EBRD, ECE, EU (applicant), FAO, G- 9,
IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IEA, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF,
IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO, ITU, MINURSO, NAM
(guest), NATO, NEA, NSG, OAS (observer), OECD, OPCW, OSCE, PCA, PFP,
UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNFICYP, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNIKOM, UNMIBH, UNMIK,
UNMOGIP, UNOMIG, UNU, UPU, WCL, WEU (associate), WFTU, WHO, WIPO,
WMO, WToO, WTrO, ZC

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Geza JESZENSZKY

chancery:  3910 Shoemaker Street NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone:  [1] (202) 362-6730

FAX:  [1] (202) 966-8135

consulate(s) general:  Los Angeles and New York

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Peter F. TUFO

embassy:  Szabadsag Ter 12, H.-1054 Budapest

mailing address:  pouch: American Embassy Budapest, 5270 Budapest
Place, Department of State, Washington, DC 20521-5270

telephone:  [36] (1) 475-4400, 475-4703 (after hours)

FAX:  [36] (1) 475-4764

Flag description: three equal horizontal bands of red (top), white,
and green



Hungary    Economy

Economy - overview: Hungary continues to demonstrate strong economic
growth and to work toward accession to the European Union. The
private sector accounts for over 80% of GDP. Foreign ownership of
and investment in Hungarian firms is widespread, with cumulative
foreign direct investment totaling $23 billion by 2000. Hungarian
sovereign debt was upgraded in 2000 to the second-highest rating
among all the Central European transition economies. Inflation - a
top economic concern in 2000 - is still high at almost 10%, pushed
upward by higher world oil and gas and domestic food prices.
Economic reform measures such as health care reform, tax reform, and
local government financing have not yet been addressed by the ORBAN
government.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $113.9 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 5.5% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $11,200 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  5%

industry:  35%

services:  60% (2000 est.)

Population below poverty line: 8.6% (1993 est.)

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:
3.9%

highest 10%:  24.8% (1996)

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 9.8% (1999 est.)

Labor force: 4.2 million (1997)

Labor force - by occupation: services 65%, industry 27%, agriculture
8% (1996)

Unemployment rate: 9.4% (2000 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $13 billion

expenditures:  $14.4 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
(2000 est.)

Industries: mining, metallurgy, construction materials, processed
foods, textiles, chemicals (especially pharmaceuticals), motor
vehicles

Industrial production growth rate: 18% (2000 est.)

Electricity - production: 36.75 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  61.09%

hydro:  0.51%

nuclear:  38.4%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 35.234 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 2.35 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 3.406 billion kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: wheat, corn, sunflower seed, potatoes, sugar
beets; pigs, cattle, poultry, dairy products

Exports: $25.2 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Exports - commodities: machinery and equipment 59.5%, other
manufactures 29.4%, food products 6.9%, raw materials 2.4%, fuels
and electricity 1.8% (2000)

Exports - partners: Germany 37%, Austria 9%, Italy 6%, Netherlands
5% (2000)

Imports: $27.6 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Imports - commodities: machinery and equipment 51.1%, other
manufactures 35.9%, fuels and electricity 8.1%, food products 2.8%,
raw materials 2.1% (2000)

Imports - partners: Germany 25%, Russia 8%, Austria 7%, Italy 7%
(2000)

Debt - external: $29.6 billion (2000)

Economic aid - recipient: $122.7 million (1995)

Currency: forint (HUF)

Currency code: HUF

Exchange rates: forints per US dollar - 282.240 (January 2001),
282.179 (2000), 237.146 (1999), 214.402 (1998), 186.789 (1997),
152.647 (1996)

Fiscal year: calendar year



Hungary    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 3.095 million (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 1.269 million (July 1999)

Telephone system: general assessment:  the telephone system has been
modernized and is capable of satisfying all requests for
telecommunication service

domestic:  the system is digitalized and highly automated; trunk
services are carried by fiber-optic cable and digital microwave
radio relay; a program for fiber-optic subscriber connections was
initiated in 1996; heavy use is made of mobile cellular telephones

international:  Hungary has fiber-optic cable connections with all
neighboring countries; the international switch is in Budapest;
satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean and Indian
Ocean regions), 1 Inmarsat, 1 very small aperture terminal (VSAT)
system of ground terminals

Radio broadcast stations: AM 17, FM 57, shortwave 3 (1998)

Radios: 7.01 million (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 35 (plus 161 low-power repeaters)
(1995)

Televisions: 4.42 million (1997)

Internet country code: .hu

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 16 (2000)

Internet users: 650,000 (2000)



Hungary    Transportation

Railways: total:  7,606 km

broad gauge:  36 km 1.524-m gauge

standard gauge:  7,394 km 1.435-m gauge (2,270 km electrified; 1,236
km double track)

narrow gauge:  176 km 0.760-m gauge (1998)

note:  Hungary and Austria jointly manage the cross-border
standard-gauge railway connecting Gyor, Sopron, and Ebenfurt (Gysev
railroad) a distance of about 101 km in Hungary and 65 km in Austria

Highways: total:  188,203 km

paved:  81,680 km (including 448 km of expressways)

unpaved:  106,523 km (1998 est.)

Waterways: 1,373 km (permanently navigable) (1997)

Pipelines: crude oil 1,204 km; natural gas 4,387 km (1991)

Ports and harbors: Budapest, Dunaujvaros

Merchant marine: total:  1 ship (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 1,199
GRT/1,050 DWT

ships by type:  cargo 1 (2000 est.)

Airports: 43 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  16

over 3,047 m:  2

2,438 to 3,047 m:  8

1,524 to 2,437 m:  4

914 to 1,523 m:  1

under 914 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  27

2,438 to 3,047 m:  3

1,524 to 2,437 m:  4

914 to 1,523 m:  12

under 914 m:  8 (2000 est.)

Heliports: 5 (2000 est.)



Hungary    Military

Military branches: Ground Forces, Air Force; note - there is a
paramilitary Border Guard which is under the Ministry of Interior

Military manpower - military age: 18 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  2,573,119 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
2,050,404 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  64,121
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $822 million (FY00)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 1.6% (FY00)



Hungary    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: Gabcikovo/Nagymaros Dam dispute with
Slovakia is before the ICJ

Illicit drugs: major transshipment point for Southwest Asian heroin
and cannabis and transit point for South American cocaine destined
for Western Europe; limited producer of precursor chemicals,
particularly for amphetamine and methamphetamine

======================================================================

@Iceland




Iceland    Introduction

Background: Settled by Norwegian and Celtic (Scottish and Irish)
immigrants during the late 9th and 10th centuries A.D., Iceland
boasts the world's oldest functioning legislative assembly, the
Althing, established in 930. Independent for over 300 years, Iceland
was subsequently ruled by Norway and Denmark. Fallout from the Askja
volcano of 1875 devastated the Icelandic economy and caused
widespread famine. Over the next quarter century, 20% of the
island's population emigrated, mostly to Canada and the US. Limited
home rule from Denmark was granted in 1874 and complete independence
attained in 1944. Literacy, longevity, income, and social cohesion
are first-rate by world standards.



Iceland    Geography

Location: Northern Europe, island between the Greenland Sea and the
North Atlantic Ocean, northwest of the UK

Geographic coordinates: 65 00 N, 18 00 W

Map references: Arctic Region

Area: total:  103,000 sq km

land:  100,250 sq km

water:  2,750 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly smaller than Kentucky

Land boundaries: 0 km

Coastline: 4,988 km

Maritime claims: continental shelf:  200 NM or to the edge of the
continental margin

exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: temperate; moderated by North Atlantic Current; mild, windy
winters; damp, cool summers

Terrain: mostly plateau interspersed with mountain peaks, icefields;
coast deeply indented by bays and fiords

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Atlantic Ocean 0 m

highest point:  Hvannadalshnukur 2,119 m

Natural resources: fish, hydropower, geothermal power, diatomite

Land use: arable land:  0%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  23%

forests and woodland:  1%

other:  76% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: NA sq km

Natural hazards: earthquakes and volcanic activity

Environment - current issues: water pollution from fertilizer
runoff; inadequate wastewater treatment

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Air Pollution,
Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species,
Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine
Dumping, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution,
Wetlands

signed, but not ratified:  Air Pollution-Persistent Organic
Pollutants, Marine Life Conservation

Geography - note: strategic location between Greenland and Europe;
westernmost European country; Reykjavik is the northernmost national
capital in the world; more land covered by glaciers than in all of
continental Europe



Iceland    People

Population: 277,906 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  23.18% (male 33,238; female 31,191)

15-64 years:  65.01% (male 91,095; female 89,583)

65 years and over:  11.81% (male 14,681; female 18,118) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 0.54% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 14.62 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 6.89 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: -2.28 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.08 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.07 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1.02 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.81 male(s)/female

total population:  1 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 3.56 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  79.52 years

male:  77.31 years

female:  81.92 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 2.01 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 0.14% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 200 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: less than 100 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Icelander(s)

adjective:  Icelandic

Ethnic groups: homogeneous mixture of descendants of Norse and Celts

Religions: Evangelical Lutheran 93%, other Protestant and Roman
Catholic, none (1997)

Languages: Icelandic

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  99.9% (1997 est.)

male:  NA%

female:  NA%



Iceland    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Republic of Iceland

conventional short form:  Iceland

local long form:  Lyoveldio Island

local short form:  Island

Government type: constitutional republic

Capital: Reykjavik

Administrative divisions: 23 counties (syslar, singular - sysla) and
14 independent towns* (kaupstadhir, singular - kaupstadhur);
Akranes*, Akureyri*, Arnessysla, Austur-Bardhastrandarsysla,
Austur-Hunavatnssysla, Austur-Skaftafellssysla, Borgarfjardharsysla,
Dalasysla, Eyjafjardharsysla, Gullbringusysla, Hafnarfjordhur*,
Husavik*, Isafjordhur*, Keflavik*, Kjosarsysla, Kopavogur*,
Myrasysla, Neskaupstadhur*, Nordhur-Isafjardharsysla,
Nordhur-Mulasys-la, Nordhur-Thingeyjarsysla, Olafsfjordhur*,
Rangarvallasysla, Reykjavik*, Saudharkrokur*, Seydhisfjordhur*,
Siglufjordhur*, Skagafjardharsysla, Snaefellsnes-og Hnappadalssysla,
Strandasysla, Sudhur-Mulasysla, Sudhur-Thingeyjarsysla,
Vesttmannaeyjar*, Vestur-Bardhastrandarsysla, Vestur-Hunavatnssysla,
Vestur-Isafjardharsysla, Vestur-Skaftafellssysla

note:  there may be four other counties

Independence: 17 June 1944 (from Denmark)

National holiday: Independence Day, 17 June (1944)

Constitution: 16 June 1944, effective 17 June 1944

Legal system: civil law system based on Danish law; has not accepted
compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Olafur Ragnar GRIMSSON
(since 1 August 1996)

head of government:  Prime Minister David ODDSSON (since 30 April
1991)

cabinet:  Cabinet appointed by the prime minister and approved by
Parliament

elections:  president elected by popular vote for a four-year term;
election last held 29 June 1996 (next to be held NA June 2004);
President GRIMSSON ran unopposed in June 2000 so there were no
elections; prime minister appointed by the president

election results:  Olafur Ragnar GRIMSSON elected president;
President GRIMSSON ran unopposed

Legislative branch: unicameral Parliament or Althing (63 seats;
members are elected by popular vote to serve four-year terms)

elections:  last held on 8 May 1999 (next to be held by April 2003)

election results:  percent of vote by party - Independence Party
40.7%, The Alliance (PA, People's Party, Women's List) 26.8%,
Progressive Party 18.4%, Left-Green Alliance 9.1%, Liberal Party
4.2%; seats by party - Independence Party 26, The Alliance 17,
Progressive Party 12, Left-Green Alliance 6, Liberal Party 2

Judicial branch: Supreme Court or Haestirettur (justices are
appointed for life by the president)

Political parties and leaders: Independence Party (conservative) or
IP [David ODDSSON]; Left-Green Alliance [Steinsvimur SIGFUSSON];
Liberal Party [Sverrir HERMANNSSON]; People's Party (Social
Democratic Party) or SDP [Sighvatyr BJORGIVINSSON]; Progressive
Party (liberal) or PP [Halldor ASGRIMSSON]; The Alliance (includes
People's Alliance or PA, Social Democratic Party or SVP, People's
Movement, Women's List) [Ossur SKARPHEDINSSON]; Women's List or WL
[Kristin ASTGEIRSDOTTIR]

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: Australia Group, BIS,
CBSS, CCC, CE, EAPC, EBRD, ECE, EFTA, FAO, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC,
ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IEA (observer), IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO,
Inmarsat, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, ISO, ITU, NATO, NC, NEA, NIB,
OECD, OPCW, OSCE, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNMIBH, UNMIK, UNU,
UPU, WEU (associate), WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTrO

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Jon-Baldvin HANNIBALSSON

chancery:  Suite 1200, 1156 15th Street NW, Washington, DC 20005

telephone:  [1] (202) 265-6653

FAX:  [1] (202) 265-6656

consulate(s) general:  New York

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Barbara J. GRIFFITHS

embassy:  Laufasvegur 21, Reykjavik

mailing address:  US Embassy, PSC 1003, Box 40, FPO AE 09728-0340

telephone:  [354] 5629100

FAX:  [354] 5629118

Flag description: blue with a red cross outlined in white that
extends to the edges of the flag; the vertical part of the cross is
shifted to the hoist side in the style of the Dannebrog (Danish flag)



Iceland    Economy

Economy - overview: Iceland's Scandinavian-type economy is basically
capitalistic, yet with an extensive welfare system, low
unemployment, and remarkably even distribution of income. In the
absence of other natural resources (except for abundant hydrothermal
and geothermal power), the economy depends heavily on the fishing
industry, which provides 70% of export earnings and employs 12% of
the work force. The economy remains sensitive to declining fish
stocks as well as to drops in world prices for its main exports:
fish and fish products, aluminum, and ferrosilicon. The center-right
government plans to continue its policies of reducing the budget and
current account deficits, limiting foreign borrowing, containing
inflation, revising agricultural and fishing policies, diversifying
the economy, and privatizing state-owned industries. The government
remains opposed to EU membership, primarily because of Icelanders'
concern about losing control over their fishing resources. Iceland's
economy has been diversifying into manufacturing and service
industries in the last decade, and new developments in software
production, biotechnology, and financial services are taking place.
The tourism sector is also expanding, with the recent trends in
ecotourism and whale watching. Growth has been remarkably steady
over the past five years at 4%-5%.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $6.85 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 4.3% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $24,800 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  15% (includes fishing 13%)

industry:  21%

services:  64% (1999 est.)

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 3.5% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 159,000 (2000)

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture 5.1%, fishing and fish
processing 11.8%, manufacturing 12.9%, construction 10.7%, other
services 59.5% (1999)

Unemployment rate: 2.7% (January 2001)

Budget: revenues:  $3.5 billion

expenditures:  $3.3 billion, including capital expenditures of $467
million (1999)

Industries: fish processing; aluminum smelting, ferrosilicon
production, geothermal power; tourism

Industrial production growth rate: 1.5% (2000 est.)

Electricity - production: 7.069 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  0.07%

hydro:  84.64%

nuclear:  0%

other:  15.29% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 6.574 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: potatoes, turnips; cattle, sheep; fish

Exports: $2 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Exports - commodities: fish and fish products 70%, animal products,
aluminum, diatomite, ferrosilicon

Exports - partners: EU 64% (UK 20%, Germany 13%, France 5%, Denmark
5%), US 15%, Japan 5% (1999)

Imports: $2.2 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Imports - commodities: machinery and equipment, petroleum products;
foodstuffs, textiles

Imports - partners: EU 56% (Germany 12%, UK 9%, Denmark 8%, Sweden
6%), US 11%, Norway 10% (1999)

Debt - external: $2.6 billion (1999)

Economic aid - donor: $NA

Currency: Icelandic krona (ISK)

Currency code: ISK

Exchange rates: Icelandic kronur per US dollar - 84.810 (January
2001), 78.676 (2000), 72.335 (1999), 70.958 (1998), 70.904 (1997),
66.500 (1996)

Fiscal year: calendar year



Iceland    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 168,000 (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 65,746 (1997)

Telephone system: general assessment:  adequate domestic service

domestic:  the trunk network consists of coaxial and fiber-optic
cables and microwave radio relay links

international:  satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat (Atlantic
Ocean), 1 Inmarsat (Atlantic and Indian Ocean regions); note -
Iceland shares the Inmarsat earth station with the other Nordic
countries (Denmark, Finland, Norway, and Sweden)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 3, FM about 70 (including repeaters),
shortwave 1 (1998)

Radios: 260,000 (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 14 (plus 156 low-power repeaters)
(1997)

Televisions: 98,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .is

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 7 (2000)

Internet users: 144,000 (2000)



Iceland    Transportation

Railways: 0 km

Highways: total:  12,691 km

paved:  3,262 km

unpaved:  9,429 km (1999)

Waterways: none

Ports and harbors: Akureyri, Hornafjordur, Isafjordhur, Keflavik,
Raufarhofn, Reykjavik, Seydhisfjordhur, Straumsvik, Vestmannaeyjar

Merchant marine: total:  2 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 3,435
GRT/4,538 DWT

ships by type:  chemical tanker 1, petroleum tanker 1 (2000 est.)

Airports: 87 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  12

over 3,047 m:  1

1,524 to 2,437 m:  4

914 to 1,523 m:  7 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  75

1,524 to 2,437 m:  3

914 to 1,523 m:  20

under 914 m:  52 (2000 est.)



Iceland    Military

Military branches: no regular armed forces; Police, Coast Guard;
note - Iceland's defense is provided by the US-manned Icelandic
Defense Force (IDF) headquartered at Keflavik

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  71,241 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
62,704 (2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $0

Military - note: defense is provided by the US-manned Icelandic
Defense Force (IDF) headquartered at Keflavik



Iceland    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: Rockall continental shelf dispute
involving Denmark and the UK (Ireland and the UK have signed a
boundary agreement in the Rockall area); dispute with Denmark over
the Faroe Islands fisheries median line boundary within 200 NM;
disputes with Denmark, the UK, and Ireland over the Faroe Islands
continental shelf boundary outside 200 NM

======================================================================

@India




India    Introduction

Background: The Indus Valley civilization, one of the oldest in the
world, goes back at least 5,000 years. Aryan tribes from the
northwest invaded about 1500 B.C.; their merger with the earlier
inhabitants created classical Indian culture. Arab incursions
starting in the 8th century and Turkish in 12th were followed by
European traders beginning in the late 15th century. By the 19th
century, Britain had assumed political control of virtually all
Indian lands. Nonviolent resistance to British colonialism under
Mohandas GANDHI and Jawaharlal NEHRU led to independence in 1947.
The subcontinent was divided into the secular state of India and the
smaller Muslim state of Pakistan. A third war between the two
countries in 1971 resulted in East Pakistan becoming the separate
nation of Bangladesh. Fundamental concerns in India include the
ongoing dispute with Pakistan over Kashmir, massive overpopulation,
environmental degradation, extensive poverty, and ethnic strife, all
this despite impressive gains in economic investment and output.



India    Geography

Location: Southern Asia, bordering the Arabian Sea and the Bay of
Bengal, between Burma and Pakistan

Geographic coordinates: 20 00 N, 77 00 E

Map references: Asia

Area: total:  3,287,590 sq km

land:  2,973,190 sq km

water:  314,400 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly more than one-third the size of the US

Land boundaries: total:  14,103 km

border countries:  Bangladesh 4,053 km, Bhutan 605 km, Burma 1,463
km, China 3,380 km, Nepal 1,690 km, Pakistan 2,912 km

Coastline: 7,000 km

Maritime claims: contiguous zone:  24 NM

continental shelf:  200 NM or to the edge of the continental margin

exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: varies from tropical monsoon in south to temperate in north

Terrain: upland plain (Deccan Plateau) in south, flat to rolling
plain along the Ganges, deserts in west, Himalayas in north

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Indian Ocean 0 m

highest point:  Kanchenjunga 8,598 m

Natural resources: coal (fourth-largest reserves in the world), iron
ore, manganese, mica, bauxite, titanium ore, chromite, natural gas,
diamonds, petroleum, limestone, arable land

Land use: arable land:  56%

permanent crops:  1%

permanent pastures:  4%

forests and woodland:  23%

other:  16% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 535,100 sq km (1995/96 est.)

Natural hazards: droughts, flash floods, severe thunderstorms
common; earthquakes

Environment - current issues: deforestation; soil erosion;
overgrazing; desertification; air pollution from industrial
effluents and vehicle emissions; water pollution from raw sewage and
runoff of agricultural pesticides; tap water is not potable
throughout the country; huge and growing population is overstraining
natural resources

Environment - international agreements: party to:
Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic-Marine Living Resources,
Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification,
Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes,
Law of the Sea, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship
Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling

signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Geography - note: dominates South Asian subcontinent; near important
Indian Ocean trade routes



India    People

Population: 1,029,991,145 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  33.12% (male 175,630,537; female
165,540,672)

15-64 years:  62.2% (male 331,790,850; female 308,902,864)

65 years and over:  4.68% (male 24,439,022; female 23,687,200) (2001
est.)

Population growth rate: 1.55% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 24.28 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 8.74 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: -0.08 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.06 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1.07 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  1.03 male(s)/female

total population:  1.07 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 63.19 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  62.86 years

male:  62.22 years

female:  63.53 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 3.04 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 0.7% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 3.7 million (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: 310,000 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Indian(s)

adjective:  Indian

Ethnic groups: Indo-Aryan 72%, Dravidian 25%, Mongoloid and other 3%
(2000)

Religions: Hindu 81.3%, Muslim 12%, Christian 2.3%, Sikh 1.9%, other
groups including Buddhist, Jain, Parsi 2.5% (2000)

Languages: English enjoys associate status but is the most important
language for national, political, and commercial communication,
Hindi the national language and primary tongue of 30% of the people,
Bengali (official), Telugu (official), Marathi (official), Tamil
(official), Urdu (official), Gujarati (official), Malayalam
(official), Kannada (official), Oriya (official), Punjabi
(official), Assamese (official), Kashmiri (official), Sindhi
(official), Sanskrit (official), Hindustani (a popular variant of
Hindi/Urdu spoken widely throughout northern India)

note:  24 languages each spoken by a million or more persons;
numerous other languages and dialects, for the most part mutually
unintelligible

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  52%

male:  65.5%

female:  37.7% (1995 est.)



India    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Republic of India

conventional short form:  India

Government type: federal republic

Capital: New Delhi

Administrative divisions: 28 states and 7 union territories*;
Andaman and Nicobar Islands*, Andhra Pradesh, Arunachal Pradesh,
Assam, Bihar, Chandigarh*, Chhattisgarh, Dadra and Nagar Haveli*,
Daman and Diu*, Delhi*, Goa, Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh,
Jammu and Kashmir, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Kerala, Lakshadweep*,
Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland,
Orissa, Pondicherry*, Punjab, Rajasthan, Sikkim, Tamil Nadu,
Tripura, Uttaranchal, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal

Independence: 15 August 1947 (from UK)

National holiday: Republic Day, 26 January (1950)

Constitution: 26 January 1950

Legal system: based on English common law; limited judicial review
of legislative acts; accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction, with
reservations

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Kicheril Raman
NARAYANAN (since 25 July 1997); Vice President Krishnan KANT (since
21 August 1997)

head of government:  Prime Minister Atal Behari VAJPAYEE (since 19
March 1998)

cabinet:  Council of Ministers appointed by the president on the
recommendation of the prime minister

elections:  president elected by an electoral college consisting of
elected members of both houses of Parliament and the legislatures of
the states for a five-year term; election last held 14 July 1997
(next to be held NA July 2002); vice president elected by both
houses of Parliament for a five-year term; election last held 16
August 1997 (next to be held NA August 2002); prime minister elected
by parliamentary members of the majority party following legislative
elections; election last held NA October 1999 (next to be held NA
October 2004)

election results:  Kicheril Raman NARAYANAN elected president;
percent of electoral college vote - NA%; Krishnan KANT elected vice
president; percent of Parliament vote - NA%; Atal Behari VAJPAYEE
elected prime minister; percent of vote - NA%

Legislative branch: bicameral Parliament or Sansad consists of the
Council of States or Rajya Sabha (a body consisting of not more than
250 members, up to 12 of which are appointed by the president, the
remainder are chosen by the elected members of the state and
territorial assemblies; members serve six-year terms) and the
People's Assembly or Lok Sabha (545 seats; 543 elected by popular
vote, 2 appointed by the president; members serve five-year terms)

elections:  People's Assembly - last held 5 September through 3
October 1999 (next to be held NA 2004)

election results:  People's Assembly - percent of vote by party -
BJP alliance 40.8%, Congress alliance 33.8%, other 25.4%; seats by
party - BJP alliance 304, Congress alliance 134, other 107

Judicial branch: Supreme Court (judges are appointed by the
president and remain in office until they reach the age of 65)

Political parties and leaders: All India Anna Dravida Munnetra
Kazhagam or AIADMK [C. Jayalalitha JAYARAM]; All India Forward Bloc
or AIFB [Prem Dutta PALIWAL (chairman), Chitta BASU (general
secretary)]; Asom Gana Parishad [Prafulla Kumar MAHANTA]; Bahujan
Samaj Party or BSP [Kanshi RAM]; Bharatiya Janata Party or BJP
[Bangaru LAXMAN, president]; Biju Janata Dal or BJD [Naveen
PATNAIK]; Communist Party of India or CPI [Ardhendu Bhushan
BARDHAN]; Communist Party of India/Marxist-Leninist or CPI/ML [Vinod
MISHRA]; Congress (I) Party [Sonia GANDHI, president]; Dravida
Munnetra Kazagham or DMK (a regional party in Tamil Nadu) [M.
KARUNANIDHI]; Indian National League [Suliaman SAIT]; Janata Dal
(Secular) [H. D. Deve GOWDA]; Janata Dal (United) or JDU [Sharad
YADAV, president, I. K. GUJRAL]; Kerala Congress (Mani faction) [K.
M. MANI]; Marumalarchi Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam or MDMK [VAIKO];
Muslim League [G. M. BANATWALA]; Nationalist Congress Party or NCP
[Sharad PAWAR]; National Democratic Alliance, a 16-party alliance
including BJP, DMK, Janata Dal (U), SHS, Shiromani Akali Dal, Telugu
Desam, BJD, Rinamool Congress]; Rashtriya Janata Dal or RJD [Laloo
Prasad YADAV]; Revolutionary Socialist Party or RSP [Tridip
CHOWDHURY]; Samajwadi Party or SP [Mulayam Singh YADAV, president];
Shiromani Akali Dal [Prakash Singh BADAL]; Shiv Sena [Bal
THACKERAY]; Tamil Maanila Congress [G. K. MOOPANAR]; Telugu Desam
Party or TDP (a regional party in Andhra Pradesh) [Chandrababu
NAIDU]; Trinamool Congress [Mamata BANERJEE]

Political pressure groups and leaders: numerous religious or
militant/chauvinistic organizations, including Vishwa Hindu
Parishad, Bajrang Dal, and Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh; various
separatist groups seeking greater communal and/or regional autonomy,
including the All Parties Hurriyat Conference

International organization participation: AfDB, ARF (dialogue
partner), AsDB, ASEAN (dialogue partner), BIS, C, CCC, CP, ESCAP,
FAO, G- 6, G-15, G-19, G-24, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU,
ICRM, IDA, IEA (observer), IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO,
Inmarsat, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM (observer), ISO, ITU,
MINURSO, MIPONUH, MONUC, NAM, OAS (observer), OPCW, PCA, SAARC, UN,
UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNIFIL, UNIKOM, UNMEE, UNMIBH, UNMIK,
UNU, UPU, WCL, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Naresh CHANDRA

chancery:  2107 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008; note
- Embassy located at 2536 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC
20008

telephone:  [1] (202) 939-7000

FAX:  [1] (202) 483-3972

consulate(s) general:  Chicago, Houston, New York, and San Francisco

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Richard F. CELESTE

embassy:  Shantipath, Chanakyapuri, New Delhi 110021

mailing address:  use embassy street address

telephone:  [91] (11) 688-9033, 611-3033

FAX:  [91] (11) 419-0025

consulate(s) general:  Chennai (Madras), Kolkata (Calcutta), Mumbai
(Bombay)

Flag description: three equal horizontal bands of orange (top),
white, and green with a blue chakra (24-spoked wheel) centered in
the white band; similar to the flag of Niger, which has a small
orange disk centered in the white band



India    Economy

Economy - overview: India's economy encompasses traditional village
farming, modern agriculture, handicrafts, a wide range of modern
industries, and a multitude of support services. More than a third
of the population is too poor to be able to afford an adequate diet.
India's international payments position remained strong in 2000 with
adequate foreign exchange reserves, moderately depreciating nominal
exchange rates, and booming exports of software services. Growth in
manufacturing output slowed, and electricity shortages continue in
many regions.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $2.2 trillion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 6% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $2,200 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  25%

industry:  24%

services:  51% (2000)

Population below poverty line: 35% (1994 est.)

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:
3.5%

highest 10%:  33.5% (1997)

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 5.4% (2000 est.)

Labor force: NA

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture 67%, services 18%, industry
15% (1995 est.)

Unemployment rate: NA%

Budget: revenues:  $44.3 billion

expenditures:  $73.6 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
(FY00/01 est.)

Industries: textiles, chemicals, food processing, steel,
transportation equipment, cement, mining, petroleum, machinery,
software

Industrial production growth rate: 7.5% (2000 est.)

Electricity - production: 454.561 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  79.41%

hydro:  17.77%

nuclear:  2.52%

other:  0.3% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 424.032 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 200 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 1.49 billion kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: rice, wheat, oilseed, cotton, jute, tea,
sugarcane, potatoes; cattle, water buffalo, sheep, goats, poultry;
fish

Exports: $43.1 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Exports - commodities: textile goods, gems and jewelry, engineering
goods, chemicals, leather manufactures

Exports - partners: US 22%, UK 6%, Germany 5%, Japan 5%, Hong Kong
5%, UAE 4% (1999)

Imports: $60.8 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Imports - commodities: crude oil, machinery, gems, fertilizer,
chemicals

Imports - partners: US 9%, Benelux 8%, UK 6%, Saudi Arabia 6%, Japan
6%, Germany 5% (1999)

Debt - external: $99.6 billion (2000)

Economic aid - recipient: $2.9 billion (FY98/99)

Currency: Indian rupee (INR)

Currency code: INR

Exchange rates: Indian rupees per US dollar - 46.540 (January 2001),
44.942 (2000), 43.055 (1999), 41.259 (1998), 36.313 (1997), 35.433
(1996)

Fiscal year: 1 April - 31 March



India    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 27.7 million (October 2000)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 2.93 million (November 2000)

Telephone system: general assessment:  mediocre service; local and
long distance service provided throughout all regions of the
country, with services primarily concentrated in the urban areas;
major objective is to continue to expand and modernize long-distance
network in order to keep pace with rapidly growing number of local
subscriber lines; steady improvement is taking place with the recent
admission of private and private-public investors, but, with
telephone density at about two for each 100 persons and a waiting
list of over 2 million, demand for main line telephone service will
not be satisfied for a very long time

domestic:  local service is provided by microwave radio relay and
coaxial cable, with open wire and obsolete electromechanical and
manual switchboard systems still in use in rural areas; starting in
the 1980s, a substantial amount of digital switch gear has been
introduced for local and long-distance service; long-distance
traffic is carried mostly by coaxial cable and low-capacity
microwave radio relay; since 1985 significant trunk capacity has
been added in the form of fiber-optic cable and a domestic satellite
system with 254 earth stations; mobile cellular service is provided
in four metropolitan cities

international:  satellite earth stations - 8 Intelsat (Indian Ocean)
and 1 Inmarsat (Indian Ocean region); nine gateway exchanges
operating from Mumbai (Bombay), New Delhi, Kolkata (Calcutta),
Chennai (Madras), Jalandhar, Kanpur, Gaidhinagar, Hyderabad, and
Ernakulam; 4 submarine cables - LOCOM linking Chennai (Madras) to
Penang; Indo-UAE-Gulf cable linking Mumbai (Bombay) to Al Fujayrah,
UAE; India-SEA-ME-WE-3, SEA-ME-WE-2 with landing sites at Cochin and
Mumbai (Bombay); Fiber-Optic Link Around the Globe (FLAG) with
landing site at Mumbai (Bombay) (2000)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 153, FM 91, shortwave 68 (1998)

Radios: 116 million (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 562 (of which 82 stations have 1 kW
or greater power and 480 stations have less than 1 kW of power)
(1997)

Televisions: 63 million (1997)

Internet country code: .in

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 43 (2000)

Internet users: 4.5 million (2000)



India    Transportation

Railways: total:  62,915 km (12,307 km electrified; 12,617 km double
track)

broad gauge:  40,620 km 1.676-m gauge

narrow gauge:  18,501 km 1.000-m gauge; 3,794 km 0.762-m and 0.610-m
gauge (1998 est.)

Highways: total:  3,319,644 km

paved:  1,517,077 km

unpaved:  1,802,567 km (1996)

Waterways: 16,180 km

note:  3,631 km navigable by large vessels

Pipelines: crude oil 3,005 km; petroleum products 2,687 km; natural
gas 1,700 km (1995)

Ports and harbors: Chennai (Madras), Cochin, Jawaharal Nehru,
Kandla, Kolkata (Calcutta), Mumbai (Bombay), Vishakhapatnam

Merchant marine: total:  315 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
6,433,831 GRT/10,691,973 DWT

ships by type:  bulk 117, cargo 70, chemical tanker 15, combination
bulk 1, combination ore/oil 3, container 15, liquefied gas 9,
passenger/cargo 5, petroleum tanker 76, short-sea passenger 2,
specialized tanker 2 (2000 est.)

Airports: 337 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  235

over 3,047 m:  13

2,438 to 3,047 m:  48

1,524 to 2,437 m:  81

914 to 1,523 m:  77

under 914 m:  16 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  102

2,438 to 3,047 m:  1

1,524 to 2,437 m:  6

914 to 1,523 m:  40

under 914 m:  55 (2000 est.)

Heliports: 16 (2000 est.)



India    Military

Military branches: Army, Navy (including naval air arm), Air Force,
various security or paramilitary forces (includes Border Security
Force, Assam Rifles, Rashtriya Rifles, and National Security Guards)

Military manpower - military age: 17 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  280,204,502
(2001 est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
164,410,461 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:
10,879,384 (2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $13.02 billion (FY01)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 2.5% (FY00)



India    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: boundary with China in dispute; status of
Kashmir with Pakistan; water-sharing problems with Pakistan over the
Indus River (Wular Barrage); a portion of the boundary with
Bangladesh is indefinite; exchange of 151 enclaves along border with
Bangladesh subject to ratification by Indian parliament; dispute
with Bangladesh over New Moore/South Talpatty Island

Illicit drugs: world's largest producer of licit opium for the
pharmaceutical trade, but an undetermined quantity of opium is
diverted to illicit international drug markets; transit country for
illicit narcotics produced in neighboring countries; illicit
producer of hashish and methaqualone

======================================================================

@Indian Ocean

Indian Ocean    Introduction Top of Page

Background: The Indian Ocean is the third-largest of the world's
five oceans (after the Pacific Ocean and Atlantic Ocean, but larger
than the Southern Ocean and Arctic Ocean). Four critically important
access waterways are the Suez Canal (Egypt), Bab el Mandeb
(Djibouti-Yemen), Strait of Hormuz (Iran-Oman), and Strait of
Malacca (Indonesia-Malaysia). The decision by the International
Hydrographic Organization in the spring of 2000 to delimit a fifth
ocean, the Southern Ocean, removed the portion of the Indian Ocean
south of 60 degrees south.



Indian Ocean    Geography

Location: body of water between Africa, the Southern Ocean, Asia,
and Australia

Geographic coordinates: 20 00 S, 80 00 E

Map references: World

Area: total:  68.556 million sq km

note:  includes Andaman Sea, Arabian Sea, Bay of Bengal, Great
Australian Bight, Gulf of Aden, Gulf of Oman, Mozambique Channel,
Persian Gulf, Red Sea, Strait of Malacca, and other tributary water
bodies

Area - comparative: about 5.5 times the size of the US

Coastline: 66,526 km

Climate: northeast monsoon (December to April), southwest monsoon
(June to October); tropical cyclones occur during May/June and
October/November in the northern Indian Ocean and January/February
in the southern Indian Ocean

Terrain: surface dominated by counterclockwise gyre (broad, circular
system of currents) in the southern Indian Ocean; unique reversal of
surface currents in the northern Indian Ocean; low atmospheric
pressure over southwest Asia from hot, rising, summer air results in
the southwest monsoon and southwest-to-northeast winds and currents,
while high pressure over northern Asia from cold, falling, winter
air results in the northeast monsoon and northeast-to-southwest
winds and currents; ocean floor is dominated by the Mid-Indian Ocean
Ridge and subdivided by the Southeast Indian Ocean Ridge, Southwest
Indian Ocean Ridge, and Ninetyeast Ridge

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Java Trench -7,258 m

highest point:  sea level 0 m

Natural resources: oil and gas fields, fish, shrimp, sand and gravel
aggregates, placer deposits, polymetallic nodules

Natural hazards: occasional icebergs pose navigational hazard in
southern reaches

Environment - current issues: endangered marine species include the
dugong, seals, turtles, and whales; oil pollution in the Arabian
Sea, Persian Gulf, and Red Sea

Geography - note: major chokepoints include Bab el Mandeb, Strait of
Hormuz, Strait of Malacca, southern access to the Suez Canal, and
the Lombok Strait



Indian Ocean    Economy

Economy - overview: The Indian Ocean provides major sea routes
connecting the Middle East, Africa, and East Asia with Europe and
the Americas. It carries a particularly heavy traffic of petroleum
and petroleum products from the oilfields of the Persian Gulf and
Indonesia. Its fish are of great and growing importance to the
bordering countries for domestic consumption and export. Fishing
fleets from Russia, Japan, South Korea, and Taiwan also exploit the
Indian Ocean, mainly for shrimp and tuna. Large reserves of
hydrocarbons are being tapped in the offshore areas of Saudi Arabia,
Iran, India, and western Australia. An estimated 40% of the world's
offshore oil production comes from the Indian Ocean. Beach sands
rich in heavy minerals and offshore placer deposits are actively
exploited by bordering countries, particularly India, South Africa,
Indonesia, Sri Lanka, and Thailand.



Indian Ocean    Transportation

Ports and harbors: Chennai (Madras; India), Colombo (Sri Lanka),
Durban (South Africa), Jakarta (Indonesia), Kolkata (Calcutta;
India) Melbourne (Australia), Mumbai (Bombay; India), Richards Bay
(South Africa)



Indian Ocean    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: some maritime disputes (see littoral
states)

======================================================================

@Indonesia




Indonesia    Introduction

Background: The world's largest archipelago, Indonesia achieved
independence from the Netherlands in 1949. Current issues include:
implementing IMF-mandated reforms of the banking sector, effecting a
transition to a popularly elected government after four decades of
authoritarianism, addressing charges of cronyism and corruption,
holding the military accountable for human rights violations, and
resolving growing separatist pressures in Aceh and Irian Jaya. On 30
August 1999 a provincial referendum for independence was
overwhelmingly approved by the people of Timor Timur. Concurrence
followed by Indonesia's national legislature, and the name East
Timor was provisionally adopted. The independent status of East
Timor - now under UN administration - has yet to be formally
established.



Indonesia    Geography

Location: Southeastern Asia, archipelago between the Indian Ocean
and the Pacific Ocean

Geographic coordinates: 5 00 S, 120 00 E

Map references: Southeast Asia

Area: total:  1,919,440 sq km

land:  1,826,440 sq km

water:  93,000 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly less than three times the size of Texas

Land boundaries: total:  2,602 km

border countries:  Malaysia 1,782 km, Papua New Guinea 820 km

Coastline: 54,716 km

Maritime claims: measured from claimed archipelagic baselines

exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: tropical; hot, humid; more moderate in highlands

Terrain: mostly coastal lowlands; larger islands have interior
mountains

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Indian Ocean 0 m

highest point:  Puncak Jaya 5,030 m

Natural resources: petroleum, tin, natural gas, nickel, timber,
bauxite, copper, fertile soils, coal, gold, silver

Land use: arable land:  10%

permanent crops:  7%

permanent pastures:  7%

forests and woodland:  62%

other:  14% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 45,970 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: occasional floods, severe droughts, tsunamis,
earthquakes, volcanoes

Environment - current issues: deforestation; water pollution from
industrial wastes, sewage; air pollution in urban areas; smoke and
haze from forest fires

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous
Wastes, Law of the Sea, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection,
Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands

signed, but not ratified:  Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Marine
Life Conservation

Geography - note: archipelago of 17,000 islands (6,000 inhabited);
straddles Equator; strategic location astride or along major sea
lanes from Indian Ocean to Pacific Ocean



Indonesia    People

Population: 228,437,870 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  30.26% (male 35,144,702; female
33,973,879)

15-64 years:  65.11% (male 74,273,519; female 74,458,291)

65 years and over:  4.63% (male 4,641,816; female 5,945,663) (2001
est.)

Population growth rate: 1.6% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 22.26 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 6.3 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.03 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.78 male(s)/female

total population:  1 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 40.91 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  68.27 years

male:  65.9 years

female:  70.75 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 2.58 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 0.05% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 52,000 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: 3,100 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Indonesian(s)

adjective:  Indonesian

Ethnic groups: Javanese 45%, Sundanese 14%, Madurese 7.5%, coastal
Malays 7.5%, other 26%

Religions: Muslim 88%, Protestant 5%, Roman Catholic 3%, Hindu 2%,
Buddhist 1%, other 1% (1998)

Languages: Bahasa Indonesia (official, modified form of Malay),
English, Dutch, local dialects, the most widely spoken of which is
Javanese

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  83.8%

male:  89.6%

female:  78% (1995 est.)



Indonesia    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Republic of Indonesia

conventional short form:  Indonesia

local long form:  Republik Indonesia

local short form:  Indonesia

former:  Netherlands East Indies; Dutch East Indies

Government type: republic

Capital: Jakarta

Administrative divisions: 27 provinces (propinsi-propinsi, singular
- propinsi), 2 special regions* (daerah-daerah istimewa, singular -
daerah istimewa), and 1 special capital city district** (daerah
khusus ibukota); Aceh*, Bali, Banten, Bengkulu, Gorontalo, Irian
Jaya, Jakarta Raya**, Jambi, Jawa Barat, Jawa Tengah, Jawa Timur,
Kalimantan Barat, Kalimantan Selatan, Kalimantan Tengah, Kalimantan
Timur, Kepulauan Bangka Belitung, Lampung, Maluku, Maluku Utara,
Nusa Tenggara Barat, Nusa Tenggara Timur, Riau, Sulawesi Selatan,
Sulawesi Tengah, Sulawesi Tenggara, Sulawesi Utara, Sumatera Barat,
Sumatera Selatan, Sumatera Utara, Yogyakarta*; note - the province
of Irian Jaya may have been divided into two new provinces - Central
Irian Jaya and West Irian Jaya; with the implementation of
decentralization on 1 January 2001, the 357 districts (regencies)
may become the key administrative units

note:  following the 30 August 1999 provincial referendum for
independence which was overwhelmingly approved by the people of
Timor Timur and the October 1999 concurrence of Indonesia's national
legislature, the name East Timor was adopted as a provisional name
for the political entity formerly known as Propinsi Timor Timur;
East Timor is under UN administration pending its formal independence

Independence: 17 August 1945 (proclaimed independence; on 27
December 1949, Indonesia became legally independent from the
Netherlands)

National holiday: Independence Day, 17 August (1945)

Constitution: August 1945, abrogated by Federal Constitution of 1949
and Provisional Constitution of 1950, restored 5 July 1959

Legal system: based on Roman-Dutch law, substantially modified by
indigenous concepts and by new criminal procedures code; has not
accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Suffrage: 17 years of age; universal and married persons regardless
of age

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Abdurrahman WAHID
(since 20 October 1999) and Vice President MEGAWATI Sukarnoputri
(since 21 October 1999); note - the president is both the chief of
state and head of government

head of government:  President Abdurrahman WAHID (since 20 October
1999) and Vice President MEGAWATI Sukarnoputri (since 21 October
1999); note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
government

cabinet:  Cabinet appointed by the president

elections:  president and vice president elected separately by the
700-member People's Consultative Assembly or MPR for five-year
terms; election last held 20 and 21 October 1999 (next to be held by
NA 2004)

election results:  Abdurrahman WAHID elected president, receiving
373 votes to 313 votes for MEGAWATI Sukarnoputri; MEGAWATI
Sukarnoputri elected vice president, defeating Hamzah HAZ; vote
totals NA

note:  the People's Consultative Assembly (Majelis Permusyawaratan
Rakyat or MPR) includes the House of Representatives (Dewan
Perwakilan Rakyat or DPR) plus 200 indirectly selected members; it
meets every five years to elect the president and vice president and
to approve the broad outlines of national policy

Legislative branch: unicameral House of Representatives or Dewan
Perwakilan Rakyat (DPR) (500 seats; 462 elected by popular vote, 38
are appointed military representatives; members serve five-year
terms)

elections:  last held 7 June 1999 (next to be held NA June 2004)

election results:  percent of vote by party - PDI-P 37.4%, Golkar
20.9%, PKB 17.4%, PPP 10.7%, PAN 7.3%, PBB 1.8%, other 4.5%; seats
by party - PDI-P 154, Golkar 120, PPP 58, PKB 51, PAN 35, PBB 14,
other 30

Judicial branch: Supreme Court or Mahkamah Agung (justices appointed
by the president from a list of candidates approved by the
legislature)

Political parties and leaders: Crescent Moon and Star Party or PBB
[Yusril Ihza MAHENDRA, chairman]; Development Unity Party or PPP
(federation of former Islamic parties) [Hamzah HAZ, chairman];
Federation of Functional Groups or Golkar [Akbar TANJUNG, general
chairman]; Indonesia Democracy Party or PDI (federation of former
Nationalist and Christian Parties) [Budi HARDJONO, chairman];
Indonesia Democracy Party-Struggle or PDI-P [MEGAWATI Sukarnoputri,
chairperson]; National Awakening Party or PKB [Matori Abdul DJALIL,
chairman]; National Mandate Party or PAN [Amien RAIS, chairman]

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: APEC, ARF, AsDB, ASEAN,
CCC, CP, ESCAP, FAO, G-15, G-19, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU,
ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat,
Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM (observer), ISO, ITU, NAM, OIC, OPCW,
OPEC, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNIKOM, UNMIBH, UNMOP, UNMOT,
UNOMIG, UPU, WCL, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
DORODJATUN Kuntjoro-Jakti

chancery:  2020 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20036

telephone:  [1] (202) 775-5200

FAX:  [1] (202) 775-5365

consulate(s) general:  Chicago, Houston, Los Angeles, New York, and
San Francisco

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Robert GELBARD

embassy:  Jalan Merdeka Selatan 4-5, Jakarta 10110

mailing address:  Unit 8129, Box 1, APO AP 96520

telephone:  [62] (21) 3435-9000

FAX:  [62] (21) 3435-9922

consulate(s) general:  Surabaya

Flag description: two equal horizontal bands of red (top) and white;
similar to the flag of Monaco, which is shorter; also similar to the
flag of Poland, which is white (top) and red



Indonesia    Economy

Economy - overview: Indonesia, a vast polyglot nation, faces severe
economic problems, stemming from secessionist movements and the low
level of security in the regions, the lack of reliable legal
recourse in contract disputes, corruption, weaknesses in the banking
system, and strained relations with the IMF. Investor confidence
will remain low and few new jobs will be created under these
circumstances. Growth of 4.8% in 2000 is not sustainable, being
attributable to favorable short-term factors, including high world
oil prices, a surge in nonoil exports, and increased domestic demand
for consumer durables.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $654 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 4.8% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $2,900 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  21%

industry:  35%

services:  44% (1999 est.)

Population below poverty line: 20% (1998)

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:
3.6%

highest 10%:  30.3% (1996)

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 9% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 99 million (1999)

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture 45%, industry 16%, services
39% (1999 est.)

Unemployment rate: 15%-20% (1998 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $26 billion

expenditures:  $30 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
(2000 est.)

Industries: petroleum and natural gas; textiles, apparel, and
footwear; mining, cement, chemical fertilizers, plywood; rubber;
food; tourism

Industrial production growth rate: 7.5% (2000 est.)

Electricity - production: 78.674 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  80.36%

hydro:  14.63%

nuclear:  0%

other:  5.01% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 73.167 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: rice, cassava (tapioca), peanuts, rubber,
cocoa, coffee, palm oil, copra; poultry, beef, pork, eggs

Exports: $64.7 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Exports - commodities: oil and gas, plywood, textiles, rubber

Exports - partners: Japan 21%, US 14%, Singapore 10%, South Korea
7%, Netherlands 3%, Australia 3%, Hong Kong, China, Taiwan (1999
est.)

Imports: $40.4 billion (c.i.f., 2000 est.)

Imports - commodities: machinery and equipment; chemicals, fuels,
foodstuffs

Imports - partners: Japan 12%, US 12%, Singapore 10%, Germany 6%,
Australia 6%, South Korea 6%, Taiwan, China (1999 est.)

Debt - external: $144 billion (2000 est.)

Economic aid - recipient: $43 billion from IMF program and other
official external financing (1997-2000)

Currency: Indonesian rupiah (IDR)

Currency code: IDR

Exchange rates: Indonesian rupiahs per US dollar - 10,000 (January
2001), 8,421.8 (2000), 7,855.2 (1999), 10,013.6 (1998), 2,909.4
(1997), 2,342.3 (1996)

Fiscal year: calendar year; note - previously was 1 April - 31
March, but starting with 2001, has been changed to calendar year



Indonesia    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 5,588,310 (1998)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 1.07 million (1998)

Telephone system: general assessment:  domestic service fair,
international service good

domestic:  interisland microwave system and HF radio police net;
domestic satellite communications system

international:  satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat (1 Indian
Ocean and 1 Pacific Ocean)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 678, FM 43, shortwave 82 (1998)

Radios: 31.5 million (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 41 (1999)

Televisions: 13.75 million (1997)

Internet country code: .id

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 24 (2000)

Internet users: 400,000 (2000)



Indonesia    Transportation

Railways: total:  6,458 km

narrow gauge:  5,961 km 1.067-m gauge (101 km electrified; 101 km
double track); 497 km 0.750-m gauge (1995)

Highways: total:  342,700 km

paved:  158,670 km

unpaved:  184,030 km (1997)

Waterways: 21,579 km total

note:  Sumatra 5,471 km, Java and Madura 820 km, Kalimantan 10,460
km, Sulawesi (Celebes) 241 km, Irian Jaya 4,587 km

Pipelines: crude oil 2,505 km; petroleum products 456 km; natural
gas 1,703 km (1989)

Ports and harbors: Cilacap, Cirebon, Jakarta, Kupang, Makassar,
Palembang, Semarang, Surabaya

Merchant marine: total:  609 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
2,698,157 GRT/3,723,933 DWT

ships by type:  bulk 36, cargo 357, chemical tanker 10, container
25, liquefied gas 3, livestock carrier 1, passenger 7,
passenger/cargo 14, petroleum tanker 117, refrigerated cargo 1, roll
on/roll off 15, short-sea passenger 8, specialized tanker 10,
vehicle carrier 5 (2000 est.)

Airports: 453 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  136

over 3,047 m:  4

2,438 to 3,047 m:  12

1,524 to 2,437 m:  39

914 to 1,523 m:  44

under 914 m:  37 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  317

1,524 to 2,437 m:  6

914 to 1,523 m:  28

under 914 m:  283 (2000 est.)

Heliports: 4 (2000 est.)



Indonesia    Military

Military branches: Army, Navy, Air Force, Marines

note:  as of 1 July 2000, the National Police became an independent
organization that reports directly to the president

Military manpower - military age: 18 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  64,046,049 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
37,418,755 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:
2,263,706 (2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $1 billion (FY98/99)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 1.3% (FY98/99)



Indonesia    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: Sipadan and Ligitan Islands in dispute
with Malaysia

Illicit drugs: illicit producer of cannabis largely for domestic
use; possible growing role as transshipment point for Golden
Triangle heroin

======================================================================

@Iran




Iran    Introduction

Background: Known as Persia until 1935, Iran became an Islamic
republic in 1979 after the ruling shah was forced into exile.
Conservative clerical forces subsequently crushed westernizing
liberal elements. Militant Iranian students seized the US Embassy in
Tehran on 4 November 1979 and held it until 20 January 1981. During
1980-88, Iran fought a bloody, indecisive war with Iraq over
disputed territory. The key current issue is how rapidly the country
should open up to the modernizing influences of the outside world.



Iran    Geography

Location: Middle East, bordering the Gulf of Oman, the Persian Gulf,
and the Caspian Sea, between Iraq and Pakistan

Geographic coordinates: 32 00 N, 53 00 E

Map references: Middle East

Area: total:  1.648 million sq km

land:  1.636 million sq km

water:  12,000 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly larger than Alaska

Land boundaries: total:  5,440 km

border countries:  Afghanistan 936 km, Armenia 35 km,
Azerbaijan-proper 432 km, Azerbaijan-Naxcivan exclave 179 km, Iraq
1,458 km, Pakistan 909 km, Turkey 499 km, Turkmenistan 992 km

Coastline: 2,440 km; note - Iran also borders the Caspian Sea (740
km)

Maritime claims: contiguous zone:  24 NM

continental shelf:  natural prolongation

exclusive economic zone:  bilateral agreements or median lines in
the Persian Gulf

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: mostly arid or semiarid, subtropical along Caspian coast

Terrain: rugged, mountainous rim; high, central basin with deserts,
mountains; small, discontinuous plains along both coasts

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Caspian Sea -28 m

highest point:  Qolleh-ye Damavand 5,671 m

Natural resources: petroleum, natural gas, coal, chromium, copper,
iron ore, lead, manganese, zinc, sulfur

Land use: arable land:  10%

permanent crops:  1%

permanent pastures:  27%

forests and woodland:  7%

other:  55% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 94,000 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: periodic droughts, floods; dust storms, sandstorms;
earthquakes along western border and in the northeast

Environment - current issues: air pollution, especially in urban
areas, from vehicle emissions, refinery operations, and industrial
effluents; deforestation; overgrazing; desertification; oil
pollution in the Persian Gulf; inadequate supplies of potable water

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous
Wastes, Marine Dumping, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection,
Wetlands

signed, but not ratified:  Environmental Modification, Law of the
Sea, Marine Life Conservation



Iran    People

Population: 66,128,965 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  32.97% (male 11,150,053; female
10,654,884)

15-64 years:  62.38% (male 20,765,001; female 20,488,672)

65 years and over:  4.65% (male 1,617,045; female 1,453,310) (2001
est.)

Population growth rate: 0.72% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 17.1 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 5.41 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: -4.51 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1.01 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  1.11 male(s)/female

total population:  1.03 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 29.04 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  69.95 years

male:  68.61 years

female:  71.37 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 2.02 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: less than 0.01% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: NA

HIV/AIDS - deaths: NA

Nationality: noun:  Iranian(s)

adjective:  Iranian

Ethnic groups: Persian 51%, Azeri 24%, Gilaki and Mazandarani 8%,
Kurd 7%, Arab 3%, Lur 2%, Baloch 2%, Turkmen 2%, other 1%

Religions: Shi'a Muslim 89%, Sunni Muslim 10%, Zoroastrian, Jewish,
Christian, and Baha'i 1%

Languages: Persian and Persian dialects 58%, Turkic and Turkic
dialects 26%, Kurdish 9%, Luri 2%, Balochi 1%, Arabic 1%, Turkish
1%, other 2%

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  72.1%

male:  78.4%

female:  65.8% (1994 est.)



Iran    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Islamic Republic of Iran

conventional short form:  Iran

local long form:  Jomhuri-ye Eslami-ye Iran

local short form:  Iran

former:  Persia

Government type: theocratic republic

Capital: Tehran

Administrative divisions: 28 provinces (ostanha, singular - ostan);
Ardabil, Azarbayjan-e Gharbi, Azarbayjan-e Sharqi, Bushehr, Chahar
Mahall va Bakhtiari, Esfahan, Fars, Gilan, Golestan, Hamadan,
Hormozgan, Ilam, Kerman, Kermanshah, Khorasan, Khuzestan, Kohgiluyeh
va Buyer Ahmad, Kordestan, Lorestan, Markazi, Mazandaran, Qazvin,
Qom, Semnan, Sistan va Baluchestan, Tehran, Yazd, Zanjan

Independence: 1 April 1979 (Islamic Republic of Iran proclaimed)

National holiday: Republic Day, 1 April (1979)

Constitution: 2-3 December 1979; revised 1989 to expand powers of
the presidency and eliminate the prime ministership

Legal system: the Constitution codifies Islamic principles of
government

Suffrage: 15 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  Leader of the Islamic Revolution
Ayatollah Ali Hoseini-KHAMENEI (since 4 June 1989)

head of government:  President (Ali) Mohammad KHATAMI-Ardakani
(since 3 August 1997); First Vice President Dr. Mohammad Reza
AREF-YAZDI (since NA August 2001)

cabinet:  Council of Ministers selected by the president with
legislative approval

elections:  leader of the Islamic Revolution appointed for life by
the Assembly of Experts; president elected by popular vote for a
four-year term; election last held 8 June 2001 (next to be held NA
2005)

election results:  (Ali) Mohammad KHATAMI-Ardakani reelected
president; percent of vote - (Ali) Mohammad KHATAMI-Ardakani 77%

Legislative branch: unicameral Islamic Consultative Assembly or
Majles-e-Shura-ye-Eslami (290 seats, note - changed from 270 seats
with the 18 February 2000 election; members elected by popular vote
to serve four-year terms)

elections:  last held 18 February-NA April 2000 (next to be held NA
2004)

election results:  percent of vote - NA%; seats by party - reformers
170, conservatives 45, and independents 10; 65 seats were up for
runoff election on 5 May 2000 (reformers 52, conservatives 10,
independents 3)

Judicial branch: Supreme Court

Political parties and leaders: the following organizations appeared
to have achieved considerable success at elections to the sixth
Majlis in early 2000: Assembly of the Followers of the Imam's Line,
Freethinkers' Front, Islamic Iran Participation Front, Moderation
and Development Party, Servants of Construction Party, Society of
Self-sacrificing Devotees

Political pressure groups and leaders: active student groups include
the pro-reform "Organization for Strengthening Unity" and "the Union
of Islamic Student Societies'; groups that generally support the
Islamic Republic include Ansar-e Hizballah, Mojahedin of the Islamic
Revolution, Muslim Students Following the Line of the Imam, and the
Islamic Coalition Association; opposition groups include the
Liberation Movement of Iran and the Nation of Iran party; armed
political groups that have been almost completely repressed by the
government include Mojahedin-e Khalq Organization (MEK), People's
Fedayeen, Democratic Party of Iranian Kurdistan; the Society for the
Defense of Freedom

International organization participation: CCC, CP, ECO, ESCAP, FAO,
G-19, G-24, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC,
IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM
(observer), ISO, ITU, NAM, OIC, OPCW, OPEC, PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO,
UNHCR, UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WFTU, WHO, WMO, WToO

Diplomatic representation in the US: none; note - Iran has an
Interests Section in the Pakistani Embassy; address: Iranian
Interests Section, Pakistani Embassy, 2209 Wisconsin Avenue NW,
Washington, DC 20007; telephone: [1] (202) 965-4990

Diplomatic representation from the US: none; note - protecting power
in Iran is Switzerland

Flag description: three equal horizontal bands of green (top),
white, and red; the national emblem (a stylized representation of
the word Allah) in red is centered in the white band; ALLAH AKBAR
(God is Great) in white Arabic script is repeated 11 times along the
bottom edge of the green band and 11 times along the top edge of the
red band



Iran    Economy

Economy - overview: Iran's economy is a mixture of central planning,
state ownership of oil and other large enterprises, village
agriculture, and small-scale private trading and service ventures.
President KHATAMI has continued to follow the market reform plans of
former President RAFSANJANI and has indicated that he will pursue
diversification of Iran's oil-reliant economy although he has made
little progress toward that goal. The strong oil market in 1996
helped ease financial pressures on Iran and allowed for Tehran's
timely debt service payments. Iran's financial situation tightened
in 1997 and deteriorated further in 1998 because of lower oil
prices. The subsequent zoom in oil prices in 1999-2000 afforded Iran
fiscal breathing room but does not solve Iran's structural economic
problems, including the encouragement of foreign investment.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $413 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 3% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $6,300 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  24%

industry:  28%

services:  48% (2000 est.)

Population below poverty line: 53% (1996 est.)

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 16% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 17.3 million

note:  shortage of skilled labor (1998)

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture 33%, industry 25%, services
42% (1999 est.)

Unemployment rate: 14% (1999 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $27 billion

expenditures:  $27 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
(1999)

Industries: petroleum, petrochemicals, textiles, cement and other
construction materials, food processing (particularly sugar refining
and vegetable oil production), metal fabricating, armaments

Industrial production growth rate: 4.4% (nonoil) (1999)

Electricity - production: 103.054 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  93.16%

hydro:  6.84%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 95.84 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: wheat, rice, other grains, sugar beets,
fruits, nuts, cotton; dairy products, wool; caviar

Exports: $25 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Exports - commodities: petroleum 85%, carpets, fruits and nuts, iron
and steel, chemicals

Exports - partners: Japan, Italy, UAE, South Korea, France, China

Imports: $15 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Imports - commodities: industrial raw materials and intermediate
goods, capital goods, foodstuffs and other consumer goods, technical
services, military supplies

Imports - partners: Germany, South Korea, Italy, UAE, France, Japan

Debt - external: $7.5 billion (2000 est.)

Economic aid - recipient: $116.5 million (1995)

Currency: Iranian rial (IRR)

Currency code: IRR

Exchange rates: Iranian rials per US dollar - 1,754.71 (January
2001), 1,764.43 (2000), 1,725.93 (1999), 1,751.86 (1998), 1,752.92
(1997), 1,750.76 (1996)

note:  Iran has three officially recognized exchange rates; the
averages for 1999 are as follows: the official floating rate of
1,750 rials per US dollar, the "export" rate of 3,000 rials per US
dollar, and the variable Tehran Stock Exchange rate, which averages
7,863 rials per US dollar; the market rate averages 8,615 rials per
US dollar

Fiscal year: 21 March - 20 March



Iran    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 6.313 million (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 265,000 (August 1998)

Telephone system: general assessment:  inadequate but currently
being modernized and expanded with the goal of not only improving
the efficiency and increasing the volume of the urban service but
also bringing telephone service to several thousand villages, not
presently connected

domestic:  as a result of heavy investing in the telephone system
since 1994, the number of long-distance channels in the microwave
radio relay trunk has grown substantially; many villages have been
brought into the net; the number of main lines in the urban systems
has approximately doubled; and thousands of mobile cellular
subscribers are being served; moreover, the technical level of the
system has been raised by the installation of thousands of digital
switches

international:  HF radio and microwave radio relay to Turkey,
Azerbaijan, Pakistan, Afghanistan, Turkmenistan, Syria, Kuwait,
Tajikistan, and Uzbekistan; submarine fiber-optic cable to UAE with
access to Fiber-Optic Link Around the Globe (FLAG);
Trans-Asia-Europe (TAE) fiber-optic line runs from Azerbaijan
through the northern portion of Iran to Turkmenistan with expansion
to Georgia and Azerbaijan; satellite earth stations - 9 Intelsat and
4 Inmarsat; Internet service available but limited to electronic
mail to promote Iranian culture

Radio broadcast stations: AM 72, FM 5, shortwave 5 (1998)

Radios: 17 million (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 28 (plus 450 low-power repeaters)
(1997)

Televisions: 4.61 million (1997)

Internet country code: .ir

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 8 (2000)

Internet users: 100,000 (2000)



Iran    Transportation

Railways: total:  5,600 km

broad gauge:  94 km 1.676-m gauge

standard gauge:  5,506 km 1.435-m gauge (146 km electrified)

note:  broad gauge track is employed at the borders with Azerbaijan
and Turkmenistan which have broad-gauge rail systems (2001)

Highways: total:  140,200 km

paved:  49,440 km (including 470 km of expressways)

unpaved:  90,760 km (1998 est.)

Waterways: 904 km

note:  the Shatt al Arab is usually navigable by maritime traffic
for about 130 km; channel has been dredged to 3 m and is in use

Pipelines: crude oil 5,900 km; petroleum products 3,900 km; natural
gas 4,550 km

Ports and harbors: Abadan (largely destroyed in fighting during
1980-88 war), Ahvaz, Bandar 'Abbas, Bandar-e Anzali, Bushehr,
Bandar-e Emam Khomeyni, Bandar-e Lengeh, Bandar-e Mahshahr, Bandar-e
Torkaman, Chabahar (Bandar Beheshti), Jazireh-ye Khark, Jazireh-ye
Lavan, Jazireh-ye Sirri, Khorramshahr (limited operation since
November 1992), Now Shahr

Merchant marine: total:  152 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
4,097,977 GRT/7,131,688 DWT

ships by type:  bulk 49, cargo 38, chemical tanker 4, combination
bulk 1, container 10, liquefied gas 1, multi-functional large-load
carrier 6, petroleum tanker 32, refrigerated cargo 1, roll on/roll
off 9, short-sea passenger 1

note:  includes some foreign-owned ships registered here as a flag
of convenience: Singapore 1 (2000 est.)

Airports: 317 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  117

over 3,047 m:  38

2,438 to 3,047 m:  23

1,524 to 2,437 m:  25

914 to 1,523 m:  24

under 914 m:  7 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  200

over 3,047 m:  2

2,438 to 3,047 m:  3

1,524 to 2,437 m:  13

914 to 1,523 m:  122

under 914 m:  60 (2000 est.)

Heliports: 11 (2000 est.)



Iran    Military

Military branches: Islamic Republic of Iran regular forces (includes
Ground Forces, Navy, Air and Air Defense Forces), Revolutionary
Guards (includes Ground, Air, Navy, Qods, and
Basij-mobilization-forces), Law Enforcement Forces

Military manpower - military age: 21 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  18,319,328 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
10,872,407 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  823,040
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $5.787 billion (FY98/99)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 2.9% (FY98/99)



Iran    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: Iran and Iraq restored diplomatic
relations in 1990 but are still trying to work out written
agreements settling outstanding disputes from their eight-year war
concerning border demarcation, prisoners-of-war, and freedom of
navigation and sovereignty over the Shatt al Arab waterway; Iran
occupies two islands in the Persian Gulf claimed by the UAE: Lesser
Tunb (called Tunb as Sughra in Arabic by UAE and Jazireh-ye Tonb-e
Kuchek in Persian by Iran) and Greater Tunb (called Tunb al Kubra in
Arabic by UAE and Jazireh-ye Tonb-e Bozorg in Persian by Iran); Iran
jointly administers with the UAE an island in the Persian Gulf
claimed by the UAE (called Abu Musa in Arabic by UAE and Jazireh-ye
Abu Musa in Persian by Iran) - over which Iran has taken steps to
exert unilateral control since 1992, including access restrictions
and a military build-up on the island; the UAE has garnered
significant diplomatic support in the region in protesting these
Iranian actions; Caspian Sea boundaries are not yet determined among
Azerbaijan, Iran, Kazakhstan, Russia, and Turkmenistan

Illicit drugs: despite substantial interdiction efforts, Iran
remains a key transshipment point for Southwest Asian heroin to
Europe; domestic consumption of narcotics remains a persistent
problem and Iranian press reports estimate that there are at least
1.2 million drug users in the country

======================================================================

@Iraq




Iraq    Introduction

Background: Formerly part of the Ottoman Empire, Iraq became an
independent kingdom in 1932. A "republic" was proclaimed in 1958,
but in actuality a series of military strongmen have ruled the
country since then, the latest being SADDAM Husayn. Territorial
disputes with Iran led to an inconclusive and costly eight-year war
(1980-1988). In August 1990 Iraq seized Kuwait, but was expelled by
US-led, UN coalition forces during January-February 1991. The
victors did not occupy Iraq, however, thus allowing the regime to
stay in control. Following Kuwait's liberation, the UN Security
Council (UNSC) required Iraq to scrap all weapons of mass
destruction and long-range missiles and to allow UN verification
inspections. UN trade sanctions remain in effect due to incomplete
Iraqi compliance with relevant UNSC resolutions.



Iraq    Geography

Location: Middle East, bordering the Persian Gulf, between Iran and
Kuwait

Geographic coordinates: 33 00 N, 44 00 E

Map references: Middle East

Area: total:  437,072 sq km

land:  432,162 sq km

water:  4,910 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly more than twice the size of Idaho

Land boundaries: total:  3,631 km

border countries:  Iran 1,458 km, Jordan 181 km, Kuwait 242 km,
Saudi Arabia 814 km, Syria 605 km, Turkey 331 km

Coastline: 58 km

Maritime claims: continental shelf:  not specified

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: mostly desert; mild to cool winters with dry, hot,
cloudless summers; northern mountainous regions along Iranian and
Turkish borders experience cold winters with occasionally heavy
snows that melt in early spring, sometimes causing extensive
flooding in central and southern Iraq

Terrain: mostly broad plains; reedy marshes along Iranian border in
south with large flooded areas; mountains along borders with Iran
and Turkey

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Persian Gulf 0 m

highest point:  Haji Ibrahim 3,600 m

Natural resources: petroleum, natural gas, phosphates, sulfur

Land use: arable land:  12%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  9%

forests and woodland:  0%

other:  79% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 25,500 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: dust storms, sandstorms, floods

Environment - current issues: government water control projects have
drained most of the inhabited marsh areas east of An Nasiriyah by
drying up or diverting the feeder streams and rivers; a once sizable
population of Shi'a Muslims, who have inhabited these areas for
thousands of years, has been displaced; furthermore, the destruction
of the natural habitat poses serious threats to the area's wildlife
populations; inadequate supplies of potable water; development of
Tigris-Euphrates Rivers system contingent upon agreements with
upstream riparian Turkey; air and water pollution; soil degradation
(salination) and erosion; desertification

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Law of the Sea,
Nuclear Test Ban

signed, but not ratified:  Environmental Modification



Iraq    People

Population: 23,331,985 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  41.64% (male 4,934,340; female 4,781,206)

15-64 years:  55.28% (male 6,528,854; female 6,368,823)

65 years and over:  3.08% (male 335,953; female 382,809) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 2.84% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 34.64 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 6.21 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.03 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1.03 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.88 male(s)/female

total population:  1.02 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 60.05 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  66.95 years

male:  65.92 years

female:  68.03 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 4.75 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: less than 0.01% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: NA

HIV/AIDS - deaths: NA

Nationality: noun:  Iraqi(s)

adjective:  Iraqi

Ethnic groups: Arab 75%-80%, Kurdish 15%-20%, Turkoman, Assyrian or
other 5%

Religions: Muslim 97% (Shi'a 60%-65%, Sunni 32%-37%), Christian or
other 3%

Languages: Arabic, Kurdish (official in Kurdish regions), Assyrian,
Armenian

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  58%

male:  70.7%

female:  45% (1995 est.)



Iraq    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Republic of Iraq

conventional short form:  Iraq

local long form:  Al Jumhuriyah al Iraqiyah

local short form:  Al Iraq

Government type: republic

Capital: Baghdad

Administrative divisions: 18 provinces (muhafazat, singular -
muhafazah); Al Anbar, Al Basrah, Al Muthanna, Al Qadisiyah, An
Najaf, Arbil, As Sulaymaniyah, At Ta'mim, Babil, Baghdad, Dahuk, Dhi
Qar, Diyala, Karbala', Maysan, Ninawa, Salah ad Din, Wasit

Independence: 3 October 1932 (from League of Nations mandate under
British administration)

National holiday: Revolution Day, 17 July (1968)

Constitution: 22 September 1968, effective 16 July 1970 (provisional
constitution); new constitution drafted in 1990 but not adopted

Legal system: based on Islamic law in special religious courts,
civil law system elsewhere; has not accepted compulsory ICJ
jurisdiction

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  President SADDAM Husayn (since 16
July 1979); Vice Presidents Taha Muhyi al-Din MARUF (since 21 April
1974) and Taha Yasin RAMADAN (since 23 March 1991)

head of government:  Prime Minister SADDAM Husayn (since 29 May
1994); Deputy Prime Ministers Tariq Mikhail AZIZ (since NA 1979),
Hikmat Mizban Ibrahim al-AZZAWI (since 30 July 1999), Ahmad Husayn
al-KHUDAYIR (since NA July 2001), and Abd al-Tawab Mullah al-HUWAYSH
(since NA July 2001)

cabinet:  Council of Ministers; note - there is also a Revolutionary
Command Council or RCC (Chairman SADDAM Husayn, Vice Chairman Izzat
IBRAHIM al-Duri) which controls the ruling Ba'th Party, and is the
most powerful political entity in the country

elections:  president and vice presidents elected by a two-thirds
majority of the Revolutionary Command Council; election last held 17
October 1995 (next to be held NA 2002)

election results:  SADDAM Husayn reelected president; percent of
vote - 99%; Taha Muhyi al-Din MARUF and Taha Yasin RAMADAN elected
vice presidents; percent of vote - NA%

Legislative branch: unicameral National Assembly or Majlis al-Watani
(250 seats; 30 appointed by the president to represent the three
northern provinces of Dahuk, Arbil, and As Sulaymaniyah; 220 elected
by popular vote; members serve four-year terms)

elections:  last held 27 March 2000 (next to be held NA March 2004)

election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
NA

Judicial branch: Court of Cassation

Political parties and leaders: Ba'th Party [SADDAM Husayn, central
party leader]

Political pressure groups and leaders: any formal political activity
must be sanctioned by the government; opposition to regime from
Kurdish groups and southern Shi'a dissidents

International organization participation: ABEDA, ACC, AFESD, AL,
AMF, CAEU, CCC, EAPC, ESCWA, FAO, G-19, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO,
ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat,
Interpol, IOC, ITU, NAM, OAPEC, OIC, OPEC, PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO,
UNIDO, UPU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO

Diplomatic representation in the US: none; note - Iraq has an
Interest Section in the Algerian Embassy headed by Akram AL DOURI;
address: Iraqi Interests Section, Algerian Embassy, 1801 P Street
NW, Washington, DC 20036; telephone: [1] (202) 483-7500; FAX: [1]
(202) 462-5066

Diplomatic representation from the US: none; note - the US has an
Interests Section in the Polish Embassy in Baghdad; address: P. O.
Box 2051 Hay Babel, Baghdad; telephone: [964] (1) 718-9267; FAX:
[964] (1) 718-9297

Flag description: three equal horizontal bands of red (top), white,
and black with three green five-pointed stars in a horizontal line
centered in the white band; the phrase ALLAHU AKBAR (God is Great)
in green Arabic script - Allahu to the right of the middle star and
Akbar to the left of the middle star - was added in January 1991
during the Persian Gulf crisis; similar to the flag of Syria which
has two stars but no script and the flag of Yemen which has a plain
white band; also similar to the flag of Egypt which has a symbolic
eagle centered in the white band



Iraq    Economy

Economy - overview: Iraq's economy is dominated by the oil sector,
which has traditionally provided about 95% of foreign exchange
earnings. In the 1980s, financial problems caused by massive
expenditures in the eight-year war with Iran and damage to oil
export facilities by Iran led the government to implement austerity
measures, borrow heavily, and later reschedule foreign debt
payments; Iraq suffered economic losses of at least $100 billion
from the war. After the end of hostilities in 1988, oil exports
gradually increased with the construction of new pipelines and
restoration of damaged facilities. Iraq's seizure of Kuwait in
August 1990, subsequent international economic sanctions, and damage
from military action by an international coalition beginning in
January 1991 drastically reduced economic activity. Although
government policies supporting large military and internal security
forces and allocating resources to key supporters of the regime have
hurt the economy, implementation of the UN's oil-for-food program in
December 1996 has helped improve conditions for the average Iraqi
citizen. For the first six, six-month phases of the program, Iraq
was allowed to export limited amounts of oil in exchange for food,
medicine, and some infrastructure spare parts. In December 1999, the
UN Security Council authorized Iraq to export under the program as
much oil as required to meet humanitarian needs. Oil exports are now
more than three-quarters their prewar level. Per capita food imports
have increased significantly, while medical supplies and health care
services are steadily improving. Per capita output and living
standards are still well below the prewar level, but any estimates
have a wide range of error.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $57 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 15% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $2,500 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  6%

industry:  13%

services:  81% (1993 est.)

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 100% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 4.4 million (1989)

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture NA%, industry NA%, services
NA%

Unemployment rate: NA%

Budget: revenues:  $NA

expenditures:  $NA, including capital expenditures of $NA

Industries: petroleum, chemicals, textiles, construction materials,
food processing

Industrial production growth rate: NA%

Electricity - production: 29.42 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  97.96%

hydro:  2.04%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 27.361 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: wheat, barley, rice, vegetables, dates,
cotton; cattle, sheep

Exports: $21.8 billion (2000 est.)

Exports - commodities: crude oil

Exports - partners: Russia, France, Switzerland, China (2000)

Imports: $13.8 billion (2000 est.)

Imports - commodities: food, medicine, manufactures

Imports - partners: Egypt, Russia, France, Vietnam (2000)

Debt - external: $139 billion (2000 est.)

Economic aid - recipient: $327.5 million (1995)

Currency: Iraqi dinar (IQD)

Currency code: IQD

Exchange rates: Iraqi dinars per US dollar - 0.3109 (fixed official
rate since 1982); black market rate - Iraqi dinars per US dollar -
1,910 (December 1999), 1,815 (December 1998), 1,530 (December 1997),
910 (December 1996), 3,000 (December 1995); note - subject to wide
fluctuations

Fiscal year: calendar year



Iraq    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 675,000 (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: NA; service available in northern Iraq
(2001)

Telephone system: general assessment:  reconstitution of damaged
telecommunication facilities began after the Gulf war; most damaged
facilities have been rebuilt

domestic:  the network consists of coaxial cables and microwave
radio relay links

international:  satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat (1 Atlantic
Ocean and 1 Indian Ocean), 1 Intersputnik (Atlantic Ocean region),
and 1 Arabsat (inoperative); coaxial cable and microwave radio relay
to Jordan, Kuwait, Syria, and Turkey; Kuwait line is probably
nonoperational

Radio broadcast stations: AM 19 (5 are inactive), FM 51, shortwave 4
(1998)

Radios: 4.85 million (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 13 (1997)

Televisions: 1.75 million (1997)

Internet country code: .iq

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 1 (2000)

Internet users: NA



Iraq    Transportation

Railways: total:  2,032 km

standard gauge:  2,032 km 1.435-m gauge

note:  rail link between Iraq and Syria restored in 2000 after 19
years

Highways: total:  45,550 km

paved:  38,400 km

unpaved:  7,150 km (1996 est.)

Waterways: 1,015 km

note:  Shatt al Arab is usually navigable by maritime traffic for
about 130 km; channel has been dredged to 3 m and is in use; Tigris
and Euphrates Rivers have navigable sections for shallow-draft
boats; Shatt al Basrah canal was navigable by shallow-draft craft
before closing in 1991 because of the Gulf war

Pipelines: crude oil 4,350 km; petroleum products 725 km; natural
gas 1,360 km

Ports and harbors: Umm Qasr, Khawr az Zubayr, and Al Basrah have
limited functionality

Merchant marine: total:  30 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
453,273 GRT/779,662 DWT

ships by type:  cargo 14, passenger 1, passenger/cargo 1, petroleum
tanker 12, refrigerated cargo 1, roll on/roll off 1 (2000 est.)

Airports: 110 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  76

over 3,047 m:  20

2,438 to 3,047 m:  36

1,524 to 2,437 m:  6

914 to 1,523 m:  7

under 914 m:  7 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  34

over 3,047 m:  3

2,438 to 3,047 m:  5

1,524 to 2,437 m:  4

914 to 1,523 m:  10

under 914 m:  12 (2000 est.)

Heliports: 4 (2000 est.)



Iraq    Military

Military branches: Army, Republican Guard, Navy, Air Force, Air
Defense Force, Border Guard Force, Fedayeen Saddam

Military manpower - military age: 18 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  5,902,215 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
3,301,880 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  274,035
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $NA

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: NA%



Iraq    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: Iran and Iraq restored diplomatic
relations in 1990 but are still trying to work out written
agreements settling outstanding disputes from their eight-year war
concerning border demarcation, prisoners-of-war, and freedom of
navigation and sovereignty over the Shatt al Arab waterway; in
November 1994, Iraq formally accepted the UN-demarcated border with
Kuwait which had been spelled out in Security Council Resolutions
687 (1991), 773 (1993), and 883 (1993); this formally ends earlier
claims to Kuwait and to Bubiyan and Warbah islands although the
government continues periodic rhetorical challenges; dispute over
water development plans by Turkey for the Tigris and Euphrates rivers

======================================================================

@Ireland




Ireland    Introduction

Background: A failed 1916 Easter Monday Rebellion touched off
several years of guerrilla warfare that in 1921 resulted in
independence from the UK for the 26 southern counties; the six
northern counties (Ulster) remained part of Great Britain. In 1948
Ireland withdrew from the British Commonwealth; it joined the
European Community in 1973. Irish governments have sought the
peaceful unification of Ireland and have cooperated with Britain
against terrorist groups. A peace settlement for Northern Ireland,
approved in 1998, was implemented the following year.



Ireland    Geography

Location: Western Europe, occupying five-sixths of the island of
Ireland in the North Atlantic Ocean, west of Great Britain

Geographic coordinates: 53 00 N, 8 00 W

Map references: Europe

Area: total:  70,280 sq km

land:  68,890 sq km

water:  1,390 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly larger than West Virginia

Land boundaries: total:  360 km

border countries:  UK 360 km

Coastline: 1,448 km

Maritime claims: continental shelf:  not specified

exclusive fishing zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: temperate maritime; modified by North Atlantic Current;
mild winters, cool summers; consistently humid; overcast about half
the time

Terrain: mostly level to rolling interior plain surrounded by rugged
hills and low mountains; sea cliffs on west coast

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Atlantic Ocean 0 m

highest point:  Carrauntoohil 1,041 m

Natural resources: zinc, lead, natural gas, barite, copper, gypsum,
limestone, dolomite, peat, silver

Land use: arable land:  13%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  68%

forests and woodland:  5%

other:  14% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: NA sq km

Natural hazards: NA

Environment - current issues: water pollution, especially of lakes,
from agricultural runoff

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Air Pollution,
Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air Pollution-Sulphur 94,
Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification, Environmental
Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping,
Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical
Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling

signed, but not ratified:  Air Pollution-Persistent Organic
Pollutants, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Endangered Species,
Marine Life Conservation

Geography - note: strategic location on major air and sea routes
between North America and northern Europe; over 40% of the
population resides within 97 km of Dublin



Ireland    People

Population: 3,840,838 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  21.57% (male 425,328; female 403,204)

15-64 years:  67.08% (male 1,290,002; female 1,286,312)

65 years and over:  11.35% (male 188,868; female 247,124) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 1.12% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 14.57 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 8.07 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 4.69 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.07 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.76 male(s)/female

total population:  0.98 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 5.53 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  76.99 years

male:  74.23 years

female:  79.93 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 1.9 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 0.1% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 2,200 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: less than 100 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Irishman(men), Irishwoman(women), Irish
(collective plural)

adjective:  Irish

Ethnic groups: Celtic, English

Religions: Roman Catholic 91.6%, Church of Ireland 2.5%, other 5.9%
(1998)

Languages: English is the language generally used, Irish (Gaelic)
spoken mainly in areas located along the western seaboard

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  98% (1981 est.)

male:  NA%

female:  NA%



Ireland    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  none

conventional short form:  Ireland

Government type: republic

Capital: Dublin

Administrative divisions: 26 counties; Carlow, Cavan, Clare, Cork,
Donegal, Dublin, Galway, Kerry, Kildare, Kilkenny, Laois, Leitrim,
Limerick, Longford, Louth, Mayo, Meath, Monaghan, Offaly, Roscommon,
Sligo, Tipperary, Waterford, Westmeath, Wexford, Wicklow

Independence: 6 December 1921 (from UK by treaty)

National holiday: Saint Patrick's Day, 17 March

Constitution: 29 December 1937; adopted 1 July 1937 by plebiscite

Legal system: based on English common law, substantially modified by
indigenous concepts; judicial review of legislative acts in Supreme
Court; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Mary MCALEESE (since 11
November 1997)

head of government:  Prime Minister Bertie AHERN (since 26 June 1997)

cabinet:  Cabinet appointed by the president with previous
nomination by the prime minister and approval of the House of
Representatives

elections:  president elected by popular vote for a seven-year term;
election last held 31 October 1997 (next to be held NA November
2004); prime minister nominated by the House of Representatives and
appointed by the president

election results:  Mary MCALEESE elected president; percent of vote
- Mary MCALEESE 44.8%, Mary BANOTTI 29.6%

note:  government coalition - Fianna Fail and the Progressive
Democrats

Legislative branch: bicameral Parliament or Oireachtas consists of
the Senate or Seanad Eireann (60 seats - 49 elected by the
universities and from candidates put forward by five vocational
panels, 11 are nominated by the prime minister; members serve
five-year terms) and the House of Representatives or Dail Eireann
(166 seats; members are elected by popular vote on the basis of
proportional representation to serve five-year terms)

elections:  Senate - last held NA August 1997 (next to be held NA
2002); House of Representatives - last held 6 June 1997 (next to be
held NA 2002)

election results:  Senate - percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by
party - Fianna Fail 29, Fine Gael 16, Labor Party 4, Progressive
Democrats 4, others 7; House of Representatives - percent of vote by
party - NA%; seats by party - Fianna Fail 76, Fine Gael 53, Labor
Party 19, Progressive Democrats 4, Democratic Left 4, Green Alliance
2, Sinn Fein 1, independents 7; note - seats by party in the House
of Representatives as of 1 January 2001 were as follows: Fianna Fail
76, Fine Gael 54, Labor Party 21, Progressive Democrats 4, Green
Alliance 2, Socialist Party 1, Sinn Fein 1, independents 7

Judicial branch: Supreme Court (judges appointed by the president on
the advice of the prime minister and cabinet)

Political parties and leaders: Democratic Left [Proinsias DE ROSSA];
Fianna Fail [Bertie AHERN]; Fine Gael [Michael NOONAN]; Green Party
[Mary BOWERS]; Labor Party [Ruairi QUINN]; Progressive Democrats
[Mary HARNEY]; Sinn Fein [Gerry ADAMS]; Socialist Party [Joe
HIGGINS]; The Workers' Party [Tom FRENCH]

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: Australia Group, BIS, CCC,
CE, EBRD, ECE, EIB, EMU, ESA, EU, FAO, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU,
ICRM, IDA, IEA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Intelsat, Interpol,
IOC, IOM (observer), ISO, ITU, MINURSO, NAM (guest), NEA, NSG, OAS
(observer), OECD, OPCW, OSCE, PFP, UN, UN Security Council
(temporary), UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNFICYP, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNIFIL, UNIKOM,
UNITAR, UNMIBH, UNMIK, UNMOP, UNTAET, UNTSO, UPU, WEU (observer),
WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTrO, ZC

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Sean O'HUIGINN

chancery:  2234 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone:  [1] (202) 462-3939

FAX:  [1] (202) 232-5993

consulate(s) general:  Boston, Chicago, New York, and San Francisco

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Michael J. SULLIVAN

embassy:  42 Elgin Road, Ballsbridge, Dublin 4

mailing address:  use embassy street address

telephone:  [353] (1) 668-7122/668-8777

FAX:  [353] (1) 668-9946

Flag description: three equal vertical bands of green (hoist side),
white, and orange; similar to the flag of Cote d'Ivoire, which is
shorter and has the colors reversed - orange (hoist side), white,
and green; also similar to the flag of Italy, which is shorter and
has colors of green (hoist side), white, and red



Ireland    Economy

Economy - overview: Ireland is a small, modern, trade-dependent
economy with growth averaging a robust 9% in 1995-2000. Agriculture,
once the most important sector, is now dwarfed by industry, which
accounts for 38% of GDP and about 80% of exports and employs 28% of
the labor force. Although exports remain the primary engine for
Ireland's robust growth, the economy is also benefiting from a rise
in consumer spending and recovery in both construction and business
investment. Over the past decade, the Irish government has
implemented a series of national economic programs designed to curb
inflation, reduce government spending, increase labor force skills,
and promote foreign investment. Ireland joined in launching the euro
currency system in January 1999 along with 10 other EU nations. The
Irish economy is in danger of overheating, with the tight labor
market driving up wage demands and inflation.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $81.9 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 9.9% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $21,600 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  4%

industry:  38%

services:  58% (1999)

Population below poverty line: 10% (1997 est.)

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  2%

highest 10%:  27.3% (1997)

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 5.6% (2000)

Labor force: 1.82 million (2000 est.)

Labor force - by occupation: services 64%, industry 28%, agriculture
8% (2000 est.)

Unemployment rate: 4.1% (2000)

Budget: revenues:  $25.7 billion

expenditures:  $19.2 billion, including capital expenditures of $2
billion (2000)

Industries: food products, brewing, textiles, clothing; chemicals,
pharmaceuticals, machinery, transportation equipment, glass and
crystal; software

Industrial production growth rate: 14% (2000 est.)

Electricity - production: 19.542 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  94.42%

hydro:  4.23%

nuclear:  0%

other:  1.35% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 18.414 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 50 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 290 million kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: turnips, barley, potatoes, sugar beets,
wheat; beef, dairy products

Exports: $73.5 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Exports - commodities: machinery and equipment, computers,
chemicals, pharmaceuticals; live animals, animal products

Exports - partners: EU 59% (UK 19%, Germany 9%, France 7%), US 20%
(2000)

Imports: $45.7 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Imports - commodities: data processing equipment, other machinery
and equipment, chemicals; petroleum and petroleum products,
textiles, clothing

Imports - partners: EU 54% (UK 29%, Germany 6%, France 5%), US 18%,
Japan 5%, Singapore 4% (2000)

Debt - external: $11 billion (1998)

Economic aid - donor: ODA, $245 million (2000)

Currency: Irish pound (IEP); euro (EUR)

note:  on 1 January 1999, the EU introduced the euro as a common
currency that is now being used by financial institutions in Ireland
at a fixed rate of 0.787564 Irish pounds per euro and will replace
the local currency for all transactions in 2002

Currency code: IEP; EUR

Exchange rates: Irish pounds per US dollar - 1.0658 (January 2001),
1.0823 (2000), 0.9374 (1999), 0.7014 (1998), 0.6588 (1997), 0.6248
(1996)

Fiscal year: calendar year



Ireland    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 1.59 million (2001)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 2 million (2001)

Telephone system: general assessment:  modern digital system using
cable and microwave radio relay

domestic:  microwave radio relay

international:  satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 9, FM 106, shortwave 0 (1998)

Radios: 2.55 million (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 4 (many low-power repeaters) (2001)

Televisions: 1.82 million (2001)

Internet country code: .ie

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 22 (2000)

Internet users: 1 million (2001)



Ireland    Transportation

Railways: total:  1,947 km

broad gauge:  1,947 km 1.600-m gauge (38 km electrified; 485 km
double track) (1998)

Highways: total:  92,500 km

paved:  87,043 km (including 115 km of expressways)

unpaved:  5,457 km (1999 est.)

Waterways: 700 km (limited facilities for commercial traffic) (1998)

Pipelines: natural gas 7,592 km (transmission 1,158 km; distribution
6,434 km) (2000)

Ports and harbors: Arklow, Cork, Drogheda, Dublin, Foynes, Galway,
Limerick, New Ross, Waterford

Merchant marine: total:  29 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
115,554 GRT/135,391 DWT

ships by type:  bulk 4, cargo 22, container 2, short-sea passenger 1
(2000 est.)

Airports: 44 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  17

over 3,047 m:  1

2,438 to 3,047 m:  1

1,524 to 2,437 m:  3

914 to 1,523 m:  5

under 914 m:  7 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  27

914 to 1,523 m:  2

under 914 m:  25 (2000 est.)



Ireland    Military

Military branches: Army (includes Naval Service and Air Corps),
National Police (Garda Siochana)

Military manpower - military age: 17 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  1,004,469 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
809,808 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  32,287
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $738 million (2001 est.)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 0.75% (2001 est.)



Ireland    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: Northern Ireland issue with the UK
(historic peace agreement signed 10 April 1998); disputes with
Iceland, Denmark, and the UK over the Faroe Islands continental
shelf boundary outside 200 NM

Illicit drugs: transshipment point for and consumer of hashish from
North Africa to the UK and Netherlands and of European-produced
synthetic drugs; minor transshipment point for heroin and cocaine
destined for Western Europe

======================================================================

@Israel





Israel    Introduction

Background: Following World War II, the British withdrew from their
mandate of Palestine, and the UN partitioned the area into Arab and
Jewish states, an arrangement rejected by the Arabs. Subsequently,
the Israelis defeated the Arabs in a series of wars without ending
the deep tensions between the two sides. The territories occupied by
Israel since the 1967 war are not included in the Israel country
profile, unless otherwise noted. In keeping with the framework
established at the Madrid Conference in October 1991, bilateral
negotiations are being conducted between Israel and Palestinian
representatives (from the Israeli-occupied West Bank and Gaza Strip)
and Israel and Syria, to achieve a permanent settlement. On 25 April
1982, Israel withdrew from the Sinai pursuant to the 1979
Israel-Egypt Peace Treaty. Outstanding territorial and other
disputes with Jordan were resolved in the 26 October 1994
Israel-Jordan Treaty of Peace. On 25 May 2000, Israel withdrew
unilaterally from southern Lebanon, which it had occupied since 1982.



Israel    Geography

Location: Middle East, bordering the Mediterranean Sea, between
Egypt and Lebanon

Geographic coordinates: 31 30 N, 34 45 E

Map references: Middle East

Area: total:  20,770 sq km

land:  20,330 sq km

water:  440 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly smaller than New Jersey

Land boundaries: total:  1,006 km

border countries:  Egypt 255 km, Gaza Strip 51 km, Jordan 238 km,
Lebanon 79 km, Syria 76 km, West Bank 307 km

Coastline: 273 km

Maritime claims: continental shelf:  to depth of exploitation

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: temperate; hot and dry in southern and eastern desert areas

Terrain: Negev desert in the south; low coastal plain; central
mountains; Jordan Rift Valley

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Dead Sea -408 m

highest point:  Har Meron 1,208 m

Natural resources: timber, potash, copper ore, natural gas,
phosphate rock, magnesium bromide, clays, sand, oil

Land use: arable land:  17%

permanent crops:  4%

permanent pastures:  7%

forests and woodland:  6%

other:  66% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 1,800 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: sandstorms may occur during spring and summer;
droughts

Environment - current issues: limited arable land and natural fresh
water resources pose serious constraints; desertification; air
pollution from industrial and vehicle emissions; groundwater
pollution from industrial and domestic waste, chemical fertilizers,
and pesticides

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous
Wastes, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution,
Wetlands

signed, but not ratified:  Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Marine
Life Conservation

Geography - note: there are 231 Israeli settlements and civilian
land use sites in the West Bank, 42 in the Israeli-occupied Golan
Heights, 25 in the Gaza Strip, and 29 in East Jerusalem (August 2000
est.)



Israel    People

Population: 5,938,093 (July 2001 est.)

note:  includes about 176,000 Israeli settlers in the West Bank,
about 20,000 in the Israeli-occupied Golan Heights, about 6,900 in
the Gaza Strip, and about 173,000 in East Jerusalem (August 2000
est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  27.36% (male 831,523; female 792,982)

15-64 years:  62.73% (male 1,869,114; female 1,855,707)

65 years and over:  9.91% (male 253,105; female 335,662) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 1.58% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 19.12 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 6.22 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 2.85 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1.01 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.75 male(s)/female

total population:  0.99 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 7.72 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  78.71 years

male:  76.69 years

female:  80.84 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 2.57 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 0.08% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 2,400 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: less than 100 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Israeli(s)

adjective:  Israeli

Ethnic groups: Jewish 80.1% (Europe/America-born 32.1%, Israel-born
20.8%, Africa-born 14.6%, Asia-born 12.6%), non-Jewish 19.9% (mostly
Arab) (1996 est.)

Religions: Jewish 80.1%, Muslim 14.6% (mostly Sunni Muslim),
Christian 2.1%, other 3.2% (1996 est.)

Languages: Hebrew (official), Arabic used officially for Arab
minority, English most commonly used foreign language

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  95%

male:  97%

female:  93% (1992 est.)



Israel    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  State of Israel

conventional short form:  Israel

local long form:  Medinat Yisra'el

local short form:  Yisra'el

Government type: parliamentary democracy

Capital: Jerusalem; note - Israel proclaimed Jerusalem as its
capital in 1950, but the US, like nearly all other countries,
maintains its Embassy in Tel Aviv

Administrative divisions: 6 districts (mehozot, singular - mehoz);
Central, Haifa, Jerusalem, Northern, Southern, Tel Aviv

Independence: 14 May 1948 (from League of Nations mandate under
British administration)

National holiday: Independence Day, 14 May (1948); note - Israel
declared independence on 14 May 1948, but the Jewish calendar is
lunar and the holiday may occur in April or May

Constitution: no formal constitution; some of the functions of a
constitution are filled by the Declaration of Establishment (1948),
the Basic Laws of the parliament (Knesset), and the Israeli
citizenship law

Legal system: mixture of English common law, British Mandate
regulations, and, in personal matters, Jewish, Christian, and Muslim
legal systems; in December 1985, Israel informed the UN Secretariat
that it would no longer accept compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Moshe KATSAV (since 31
July 2000)

head of government:  Prime Minister Ariel SHARON (since 2 March 2001)

cabinet:  Cabinet selected by prime minister and approved by the
Knesset

elections:  president elected by the Knesset for a five-year term;
election last held 31 July 2000 (next to be held NA July 2005);
prime minister elected by popular vote for a four-year term;
election last held 6 February 2001 (next to be held NA 2005); note -
in March 1992, the Knesset approved legislation, effective in 1996,
which allowed for the direct election of the prime minister, but in
2001 the Knesset voted to restore the previous method under which
the legislators will choose the next prime minister after the next
legislative elections in 2003

election results:  Moshe KATSAV elected president by the 120-member
Knesset with a total of 60 votes, other candidate, Shimon PERES,
received 57 votes (there were three abstentions); Ariel SHARON
elected prime minister; percent of vote - Ariel SHARON 62.5%, Ehud
BARAK 37.4%; note - after the next legislative elections scheduled
for 2003, the prime minister will be elected by the Knesset

Legislative branch: unicameral Knesset or parliament (120 seats;
members elected by popular vote to serve four-year terms)

elections:  last held 17 May 1999 (next to be held NA November 2003)

election results:  percent of vote by party - One Israel 20.2%,
Likud Party 14.1%, Shas 13%, MERETZ 7.6%, Yisra'el Ba'Aliya 5.1%,
Shinui 5%, Center Party 5%, National Religious Party 4.2%, United
Torah Judaism 3.7%, United Arab List 3.4%, National Union 3%, Hadash
2.6%, Yisra'el Beiteinu 2.6%, Balad 1.9%, One Nation 1.9%,
Democratic Movement NA (party formed after election, members elected
under Yisra'el Ba'Aliya list); seats by party - One Israel 26, Likud
Party 19, Shas 17, MERETZ 10, Yisra'el Ba'Aliya 4, Shinui 6, Center
Party 6, National Religious Party 5, United Torah Judaism 5, United
Arab List 5, National Union 4, Hadash 3, Yisra'el Beiteinu 4,
Democratic Movement 2 (party formed after election, members elected
under Yisra'el Ba'Aliya list), Balad 2, One Nation 2

Judicial branch: Supreme Court (justices appointed for life by the
president)

Political parties and leaders: Balad or National Democratic Alliance
[Amnon LIPKIN-SHAHAK]; Center Party [Yitzhak MORDECHAI]; Democratic
Movement [Roman BRONFMAN]; Gesher [David LEVI]; Hadash [Muhammad
BARAKA]; Labor Party [leader vacant]; Likud Party [Ariel SHARON];
MERETZ [Yossi SARID]; National Democratic Alliance (Balad) [leader
NA]; National Religious Party [Yitzhak LEVY]; National Union
[Rehavam ZEEVI] (includes Herut, Tekuma, and Moledet); One Israel
[leader NA] (includes Labor, Gesher, and Meimad); One Nation [Amir
PERETZ]; Shas [Eliyahu YISHAI]; Shinui [Tommy LAPID]; United Arab
List [Abd al-Malik DAHAMSHAH]; United Torah Judaism [Rabbi Eliezer
SHACK, spiritual leader]; Yisra'el Ba'Aliya [Natan SHARANSKY];
Yisra'el Beiteinu [Avigdor LIEBERMAN]

Political pressure groups and leaders: Gush Emunim, Israeli
nationalists advocating Jewish settlement on the West Bank and Gaza
Strip; Peace Now supports territorial concessions in the West Bank
and is critical of government's Lebanon policy

International organization participation: BSEC (observer), CCC, CE
(observer), CERN (observer), EBRD, ECE, FAO, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO,
ICC, ICFTU, IDA, IFAD, IFC, ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat,
Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO, ITU, OAS (observer), OPCW, OSCE (partner),
PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UPU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO,
WTrO

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
David IVRY

chancery:  3514 International Drive NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone:  [1] (202) 364-5500

FAX:  [1] (202) 364-5607

consulate(s) general:  Atlanta, Boston, Chicago, Houston, Los
Angeles, Miami, New York, Philadelphia, and San Francisco

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Martin S. INDYK

embassy:  71 Hayarkon Street, Tel Aviv

mailing address:  PSC 98, Unit 7228, APO AE 09830

telephone:  [972] (3) 519-7575

FAX:  [972] (3) 517-3227

consulate(s) general:  Jerusalem; note - an independent US mission,
established in 1928, whose members are not accredited to a foreign
government

Flag description: white with a blue hexagram (six-pointed linear
star) known as the Magen David (Shield of David) centered between
two equal horizontal blue bands near the top and bottom edges of the
flag



Israel    Economy

Economy - overview: Israel has a technologically advanced market
economy with substantial government participation. It depends on
imports of crude oil, grains, raw materials, and military equipment.
Despite limited natural resources, Israel has intensively developed
its agricultural and industrial sectors over the past 20 years.
Israel is largely self-sufficient in food production except for
grains. Cuts diamonds, high-technology equipment, and agricultural
products (fruits and vegetables) are the leading exports. Israel
usually posts sizable current account deficits, which are covered by
large transfer payments from abroad and by foreign loans. Roughly
half of the government's external debt is owed to the US, which is
its major source of economic and military aid. The influx of Jewish
immigrants from the former USSR topped 750,000 during the period
1989-99, bringing the population of Israel from the former Soviet
Union to 1 million, one-sixth of the total population, and adding
scientific and professional expertise of substantial value for the
economy's future. The influx, coupled with the opening of new
markets at the end of the Cold War, energized Israel's economy,
which grew rapidly in the early 1990s. But growth began moderating
in 1996 when the government imposed tighter fiscal and monetary
policies and the immigration bonus petered out. Growth was a strong
5.9% in 2000. But the outbreak of Palestinian unrest in late
September and the collapse of the BARAK Government - coupled with a
cooling off in the high-technology and tourist sectors - undercut
the boom and foreshadows a slowdown to 2%-3% in 2001.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $110.2 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 5.9% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $18,900 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  4%

industry:  37%

services:  59% (1999 est.)

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:
2.8%

highest 10%:  26.9% (1992)

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 0.1% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 2.4 million (2000 est.)

Labor force - by occupation: public services 31.2%, manufacturing
20.2%, finance and business 13.1%, commerce 12.8%, construction
7.5%, personal and other services 6.4%, transport, storage, and
communications 6.2%, agriculture, forestry, and fishing 2.6% (1996)

Unemployment rate: 9% (2000 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $40 billion

expenditures:  $42.4 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
(2000 est.)

Industries: high-technology projects (including aviation,
communications, computer-aided design and manufactures, medical
electronics), wood and paper products, potash and phosphates, food,
beverages, and tobacco, caustic soda, cement, diamond cutting

Industrial production growth rate: 7% (2000)

Electricity - production: 35.437 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  99.89%

hydro:  0.11%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 31.899 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 1.061 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 4 million kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: citrus, vegetables, cotton; beef, poultry,
dairy products

Exports: $31.5 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Exports - commodities: machinery and equipment, software, cut
diamonds, agricultural products, chemicals, textiles and apparel

Exports - partners: US 36%, UK 6%, Benelux 5%, Hong Kong 4%,
Netherlands 4% (1999)

Imports: $35.1 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Imports - commodities: raw materials, military equipment, investment
goods, rough diamonds, fuels, consumer goods

Imports - partners: US 20%, Benelux 11%, Germany 8%, UK 8%,
Switzerland 6%, Italy 5% (1999)

Debt - external: $38 billion (2000 est.)

Economic aid - recipient: $1.1 billion from the US (1999)

Currency: new Israeli shekel (ILS)

Currency code: ILS

Exchange rates: new Israeli shekels per US dollar - 4.0810 (December
2000), 4.0773 (2000), 4.1397 (1999), 3.8001 (1998), 3.4494 (1997),
3.1917 (1996)

Fiscal year: calendar year



Israel    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 2.8 million (1999)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 2.5 million (1999)

Telephone system: general assessment:  most highly developed system
in the Middle East although not the largest

domestic:  good system of coaxial cable and microwave radio relay;
all systems are digital

international:  3 submarine cables; satellite earth stations - 3
Intelsat (2 Atlantic Ocean and 1 Indian Ocean)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 23, FM 15, shortwave 2 (1998)

Radios: 3.07 million (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 17 (plus 36 low-power repeaters)
(1995)

Televisions: 1.69 million (1997)

Internet country code: .il

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 21 (2000)

Internet users: 1 million (2000)



Israel    Transportation

Railways: total:  610 km

standard gauge:  610 km 1.435-m gauge (1996)

Highways: total:  15,965 km

paved:  15,965 km (including 56 km of expressways)

unpaved:  0 km (1998 est.)

Waterways: none

Pipelines: crude oil 708 km; petroleum products 290 km; natural gas
89 km

Ports and harbors: Ashdod, Ashqelon, Elat (Eilat), Hadera, Haifa,
Tel Aviv-Yafo

Merchant marine: total:  17 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
631,582 GRT/745,011 DWT

ships by type:  container 16, roll on/roll off 1 (2000 est.)

Airports: 55 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  30

over 3,047 m:  2

2,438 to 3,047 m:  4

1,524 to 2,437 m:  7

914 to 1,523 m:  10

under 914 m:  7 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  25

1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

914 to 1,523 m:  4

under 914 m:  20 (2000 est.)

Heliports: 2 (2000 est.)



Israel    Military

Military branches: Israel Defense Forces (includes ground, naval,
and air components), Pioneer Fighting Youth (Nahal), Frontier Guard,
Chen (women); note - historically there have been no separate
Israeli military services

Military manpower - military age: 18 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  1,522,003

females age 15-49:  1,482,027 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
1,245,757

females age 15-49:  1,208,973 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  49,206

females:  53,379 (2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $8.7 billion (FY99)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 9.4% (FY99)



Israel    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: West Bank and Gaza Strip are
Israeli-occupied with current status subject to the
Israeli-Palestinian Interim Agreement - permanent status to be
determined through further negotiation; Golan Heights is
Israeli-occupied (Lebanon claims the Shab'a Farms area of Golan
Heights)

Illicit drugs: increasingly concerned about cocaine and heroin
abuse; drugs arrive in country from Lebanon and increasingly Jordan

======================================================================

@Italy




Italy    Introduction

Background: Italy became a nation-state belatedly - in 1861 when the
city-states of the peninsula, along with Sardinia and Sicily, were
united under King Victor EMMANUEL. An era of parliamentary
government came to a close in the early 1920s when Benito MUSSOLINI
established a Fascist dictatorship. His disastrous alliance with
Nazi Germany led to Italy's defeat in World War II. A democratic
republic replaced the monarchy in 1946 and economic revival
followed. Italy was a charter member of NATO and the European
Economic Community (EEC). It has been at the forefront of European
economic and political unification, joining the European Monetary
Union in 1999. Persistent problems include illegal immigration, the
ravages of organized crime, corruption, high unemployment, and the
low incomes and technical standards of southern Italy compared with
the more prosperous north.



Italy    Geography

Location: Southern Europe, a peninsula extending into the central
Mediterranean Sea, northeast of Tunisia

Geographic coordinates: 42 50 N, 12 50 E

Map references: Europe

Area: total:  301,230 sq km

land:  294,020 sq km

water:  7,210 sq km

note:  includes Sardinia and Sicily

Area - comparative: slightly larger than Arizona

Land boundaries: total:  1,932.2 km

border countries:  Austria 430 km, France 488 km, Holy See (Vatican
City) 3.2 km, San Marino 39 km, Slovenia 232 km, Switzerland 740 km

Coastline: 7,600 km

Maritime claims: continental shelf:  200-m depth or to the depth of
exploitation

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: predominantly Mediterranean; Alpine in far north; hot, dry
in south

Terrain: mostly rugged and mountainous; some plains, coastal lowlands

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Mediterranean Sea 0 m

highest point:  Mont Blanc (Monte Bianco) 4,807 m

Natural resources: mercury, potash, marble, sulfur, natural gas and
crude oil reserves, fish, coal, arable land

Land use: arable land:  31%

permanent crops:  10%

permanent pastures:  15%

forests and woodland:  23%

other:  21% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 27,100 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: regional risks include landslides, mudflows,
avalanches, earthquakes, volcanic eruptions, flooding; land
subsidence in Venice

Environment - current issues: air pollution from industrial
emissions such as sulfur dioxide; coastal and inland rivers polluted
from industrial and agricultural effluents; acid rain damaging
lakes; inadequate industrial waste treatment and disposal facilities

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Air Pollution,
Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air Pollution-Sulphur 85, Air
Pollution-Sulphur 94, Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds,
Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic-Marine Living Resources,
Antarctic Seals, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change,
Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification,
Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Nuclear Test Ban,
Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical
Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling

signed, but not ratified:  Air Pollution-Persistent Organic
Pollutants, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol

Geography - note: strategic location dominating central
Mediterranean as well as southern sea and air approaches to Western
Europe



Italy    People

Population: 57,679,825 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  14.17% (male 4,209,102; female 3,964,765)

15-64 years:  67.48% (male 19,375,742; female 19,546,332)

65 years and over:  18.35% (male 4,368,264; female 6,215,620) (2001
est.)

Population growth rate: 0.07% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 9.05 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 10.07 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 1.73 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.07 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.06 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  0.99 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.7 male(s)/female

total population:  0.94 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 5.84 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  79.14 years

male:  75.97 years

female:  82.52 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 1.18 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 0.35% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 95,000 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: 1,000 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Italian(s)

adjective:  Italian

Ethnic groups: Italian (includes small clusters of German-, French-,
and Slovene-Italians in the north and Albanian-Italians and
Greek-Italians in the south)

Religions: predominately Roman Catholic with mature Protestant and
Jewish communities and a growing Muslim immigrant community

Languages: Italian (official), German (parts of Trentino-Alto Adige
region are predominantly German speaking), French (small
French-speaking minority in Valle d'Aosta region), Slovene
(Slovene-speaking minority in the Trieste-Gorizia area)

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  98% (1998)

male:  NA%

female:  NA%



Italy    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Italian Republic

conventional short form:  Italy

local long form:  Repubblica Italiana

local short form:  Italia

former:  Kingdom of Italy

Government type: republic

Capital: Rome

Administrative divisions: 20 regions (regioni, singular - regione);
Abruzzi, Basilicata, Calabria, Campania, Emilia-Romagna,
Friuli-Venezia Giulia, Lazio, Liguria, Lombardia, Marche, Molise,
Piemonte, Puglia, Sardegna, Sicilia, Toscana, Trentino-Alto Adige,
Umbria, Valle d'Aosta, Veneto

Independence: 17 March 1861 (Kingdom of Italy proclaimed; Italy was
not finally unified until 1870)

National holiday: Republic Day, 2 June (1946)

Constitution: 1 January 1948

Legal system: based on civil law system; appeals treated as new
trials; judicial review under certain conditions in Constitutional
Court; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal (except in senatorial
elections, where minimum age is 25)

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Carlo Azeglio CIAMPI
(since 13 May 1999)

head of government:  Prime Minister (referred to in Italy as the
president of the Council of Ministers) Silvio BERLUSCONI (since 10
June 2001)

cabinet:  Council of Ministers nominated by the prime minister and
approved by the president

elections:  president elected by an electoral college consisting of
both houses of Parliament and 58 regional representatives for a
seven-year term; election last held 13 May 1999 (next to be held NA
May 2006); prime minister appointed by the president and confirmed
by parliament

election results:  Carlo Azeglio CIAMPI elected president; percent
of electoral college vote - 70%

note:  a 12-party government coalition; note - BERLUSCONI's
coalition includes Forza Italian, National Alliance, Christian
Democratic Center, Christian Northern League

Legislative branch: bicameral Parliament or Parlamento consists of
the Senate or Senato della Repubblica (315 seats elected by popular
vote of which 232 are directly elected and 83 are elected by
regional proportional representation plus, in addition, there are a
small number of senators-for-life including former presidents of the
republic; members serve five-year terms) and the Chamber of Deputies
or Camera dei Deputati (630 seats; 475 are directly elected, 155 by
regional proportional representation; members serve five-year terms)

elections:  Senate - last held 13 May 2001 (next to be held NA
2006); Chamber of Deputies - last held 13 May 2001 (next to be held
NA 2006)

election results:  Senate - percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by
party - House of Liberties 177 (Forza Italia 82, National Alliance
46, CCD-CDU 29, Northern League 17, others 3), Olive Tree 128
(Democrats of the Left 62, Daisy Alliance 42, Sunflower Alliance 16,
Italian Communist Party 3, independents 5), non-affiliated with
either coalition 10, senators for life 9; Chamber of Deputies -
percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party - House of Liberties
367 (Forza Italia 189, National Alliance 96, CCD-CDU 40, Northern
League 30, others 12), Olive Tree 248 (Democrats of the Left 138,
Daisy Alliance 76, Sunflower Alliance 18, Italian Communist Party 9,
independents 7), non-affiliated with either coalition 15

Judicial branch: Constitutional Court or Corte Costituzionale
(composed of 15 judges: one-third appointed by the president,
one-third elected by Parliament, one-third elected by the ordinary
and administrative Supreme Courts)

Political parties and leaders: Center-Left Olive Tree Coalition
[Francesco RUTELLI] - Democrats of the Left, Daisy Alliance
(including Italian Popular Party, Italian Renewal, Union of
Democrats for Europe, The Democrats), Sunflower Alliance (including
Green Federation, Italian Democratic Socialists), Italian Communist
Party; Christian Democratic Center or CDC [Pier Ferdinando CASINI];
Christian Democratic Union or CDU [Rocco BUTTIGLIONE]; Communist
Renewal or RC [Fausto BERTINOTTI]; Forza Italia or FI [Silvio
BERLUSCONI]; Green Federation [Grazia FRANCESCATO]; House of
Liberties (formerly Freedom Alliance, a center-right coalition)
[leader Silvio BERLUSCONI] - Forza Italian, National Alliance,
Christian Democratic Center, Christian Democratic Union, Northern
League; Italian Communist Party or PdCI [Oliviero DILIBERTO];
Italian Democratic Socialists [Enrico BOSELLI]; Italian Popular
Party [Pierluigi CASTAGNETTI]; Italian Renewal [Lamberto DINI];
Italian Social Movement-Tricolored Flame or MSI-FI [Pino RAUTI];
National Alliance or AN [Gianfranco FINI]; Northern League or NL
[Umberto BOSSI]; Radical Party (formerly Panella Reformers and
Autonomous List) [Marco PANNELLA]; Southern Tyrols People's Party or
SVP (German speakers) [Siegfried BRUGGER]; Union of Democrats for
Europe [Clemente MASTELLA]; The Democrats [Arturo PARISI]

Political pressure groups and leaders: Italian manufacturers and
merchants associations (Confindustria, Confcommercio); organized
farm groups (Confcoltivatori, Confagricoltura); Roman Catholic
Church; three major trade union confederations (Confederazione
Generale Italiana del Lavoro or CGIL [Sergio COFFERATI] which is
left wing, Confederazione Italiana dei Sindacati Lavoratori or CISL
[Sergio D'ANTONI] which is Catholic centrist, and Unione Italiana
del Lavoro or UIL [Pietro LARIZZA] which is lay centrist)

International organization participation: AfDB, AsDB, Australia
Group, BIS, BSEC (observer), CCC, CDB (non-regional), CE, CEI, CERN,
EAPC, EBRD, ECE, ECLAC, EIB, EMU, ESA, EU, FAO, G- 7, G-10, IADB,
IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IEA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO,
ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO, ITU,
LAIA (observer), MINURSO, NAM (guest), NATO, NEA, NSG, OAS
(observer), OECD, OPCW, OSCE, PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO,
UNIFIL, UNIKOM, UNMEE, UNMIBH, UNMIK, UNMOGIP, UNTSO, UPU, WCL, WEU,
WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO, ZC

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Ferdinando SALLEO

chancery:  3000 Whitehaven Street NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone:  [1] (202) 612-4400

FAX:  [1] (202) 518-2154

consulate(s) general:  Boston, Chicago, Houston, Miami, New York,
Los Angeles, Philadelphia, and San Francisco

consulate(s):  Detroit

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
(vacant)

embassy:  Via Veneto 119/A, 00187-Rome

mailing address:  PSC 59, Box 100, APO AE 09624

telephone:  [39] (06) 46741

FAX:  [39] (06) 488-2672

consulate(s) general:  Florence, Milan, Naples

Flag description: three equal vertical bands of green (hoist side),
white, and red; similar to the flag of Ireland, which is longer and
is green (hoist side), white, and orange; also similar to the flag
of the Cote d'Ivoire, which has the colors reversed - orange (hoist
side), white, and green

note:  inspired by the French flag brought to Italy by Napoleon in
1797



Italy    Economy

Economy - overview: Italy has a diversified industrial economy with
roughly the same total and per capita output as France and the UK.
This capitalistic economy remains divided into a developed
industrial north, dominated by private companies, and a less
developed agricultural south, with more than 20% unemployment. Most
raw materials needed by industry and more than 75% of energy
requirements are imported. Since 1992, Italy has adopted budgets
compliant with the requirements of the European Monetary Union
(EMU); wage moderation agreements by representatives of government,
labor, and employers have helped to bring Italy's inflation into
conformity with EMU requirements. Italy's economic performance,
however, has lagged behind that of its EU partners and it must work
to stimulate employment, promote labor flexibility, reform its
expensive pension system, and tackle the informal economy.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $1.273 trillion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 2.7% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $22,100 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  2.5%

industry:  30.4%

services:  67.1% (2000 est.)

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:
3.5%

highest 10%:  21.8% (1995)

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 2.5% (2000)

Labor force: 23.4 million (2000)

Labor force - by occupation: services 61.9%, industry 32.6%,
agriculture 5.5% (1999)

Unemployment rate: 10.4% (2000 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $488 billion

expenditures:  $501 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
(2000 est.)

Industries: tourism, machinery, iron and steel, chemicals, food
processing, textiles, motor vehicles, clothing, footwear, ceramics

Industrial production growth rate: 1.9% (2000)

Electricity - production: 247.679 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  79.09%

hydro:  18.08%

nuclear:  0%

other:  2.83% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 272.35 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 530 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 42.539 billion kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: fruits, vegetables, grapes, potatoes, sugar
beets, soybeans, grain, olives; beef, dairy products; fish

Exports: $241.1 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Exports - commodities: engineering products, textiles and clothing,
production machinery, motor vehicles, transport equipment,
chemicals; food, beverages and tobacco; minerals and nonferrous
metals

Exports - partners: EU 56.8% (Germany 16.4%, France 12.9%,
Netherlands 7.1%, Spain 6.3%, Netherlands 2.9%), US 9.5% (1999)

Imports: $231.4 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Imports - commodities: engineering products, chemicals, transport
equipment, energy products, minerals and nonferrous metals, textiles
and clothing; food, beverages and tobacco

Imports - partners: EU 61% (Germany 19.3%, France 12.6%, Netherlands
6.3%, Spain 4.4%), US 5.0% (1999)

Debt - external: $NA

Economic aid - donor: ODA, $1.3 billion (1997)

Currency: Italian lira (ITL); euro (EUR)

note:  on 1 January 1999, the EU introduced the euro as a common
currency that is now being used by financial institutions in Italy
at a fixed rate of 1,936.27 Italian lire per euro and will replace
the local currency for all transactions in 2002

Currency code: ITL; EUR

Exchange rates: euros per US dollar - 1.0659 (January 2001), 1.0854
(2000), 0.9386 (1999); Italian lire per US dollar - 1,688.7 (January
1999), 1,736.2 (1998), 1,703.1 (1997), 1,542.9 (1996)

Fiscal year: calendar year



Italy    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 25 million (1999)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 20.5 million (1999)

Telephone system: general assessment:  modern, well developed, fast;
fully automated telephone, telex, and data services

domestic:  high-capacity cable and microwave radio relay trunks

international:  satellite earth stations - 3 Intelsat (with a total
of 5 antennas - 3 for Atlantic Ocean and 2 for Indian Ocean), 1
Inmarsat (Atlantic Ocean region), and NA Eutelsat; 21 submarine
cables

Radio broadcast stations: AM about 100, FM about 4,600, shortwave 9
(1998)

Radios: 50.5 million (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 358 (plus 4,728 repeaters) (1995)

Televisions: 30.3 million (1997)

Internet country code: .it

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 93 (Italy and Holy See) (2000)

Internet users: 11.6 million (2000)



Italy    Transportation

Railways: total:  19,394 km

standard gauge:  18,071 km 1.435-m gauge; Italian Railways (FS)
operates 16,014 km of the total standard gauge routes (11,322 km
electrified)

narrow gauge:  112 km 1.000-m gauge (112 km electrified); 1,211 km
0.950-m gauge (153 km electrified) (1998)

Highways: total:  654,676 km

paved:  654,676 km (including 6460 km of expressways)

unpaved:  0 km (1997)

Waterways: 2,400 km

note:  for various types of commercial traffic, although of limited
overall value

Pipelines: crude oil 1,703 km; petroleum products 2,148 km; natural
gas 19,400 km

Ports and harbors: Augusta (Sicily), Bagnoli, Bari, Brindisi, Gela,
Genoa, La Spezia, Livorno, Milazzo, Naples, Porto Foxi, Porto Torres
(Sardinia), Salerno, Savona, Taranto, Trieste, Venice (2001)

Merchant marine: total:  445 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
8,005,136 GRT/10,556,244 DWT

ships by type:  bulk 44, cargo 41, chemical tanker 77, combination
ore/oil 4, container 24, liquefied gas 38, multi-functional
large-load carrier 1, passenger 11, petroleum tanker 85,
refrigerated cargo 1, roll on/roll off 64, short-sea passenger 26,
specialized tanker 14, vehicle carrier 15 (2000 est.)

Airports: 135 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  97

over 3,047 m:  5

2,438 to 3,047 m:  32

1,524 to 2,437 m:  17

914 to 1,523 m:  31

under 914 m:  12 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  38

1,524 to 2,437 m:  2

914 to 1,523 m:  18

under 914 m:  18 (2000 est.)

Heliports: 4 (2000 est.)



Italy    Military

Military branches: Army, Navy, Air Force, Carabinieri

Military manpower - military age: 18 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  14,248,674 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
12,244,166 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  304,369
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $20.7 billion (FY00/01)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 1.7% (FY00/01)



Italy    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: Croatia and Italy made progress toward
resolving a bilateral issue dating from World War II over property
and ethnic minority rights

Illicit drugs: important gateway for and consumer of Latin American
cocaine and Southwest Asian heroin entering the European market

======================================================================

@Jamaica




Jamaica    Introduction

Background: Jamaica gained full independence within the British
Commonwealth in 1962. Deteriorating economic conditions during the
1970s led to recurrent violence and a dropoff in tourism. Elections
in 1980 saw the democratic socialists voted out of office.
Subsequent governments have been open market oriented. Political
violence marred elections during the 1990s.



Jamaica    Geography

Location: Caribbean, island in the Caribbean Sea, south of Cuba

Geographic coordinates: 18 15 N, 77 30 W

Map references: Central America and the Caribbean

Area: total:  10,990 sq km

land:  10,830 sq km

water:  160 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly smaller than Connecticut

Land boundaries: 0 km

Coastline: 1,022 km

Maritime claims: measured from claimed archipelagic baselines

contiguous zone:  24 NM

continental shelf:  200-m depth or to the depth of exploitation

exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: tropical; hot, humid; temperate interior

Terrain: mostly mountains, with narrow, discontinuous coastal plain

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Caribbean Sea 0 m

highest point:  Blue Mountain Peak 2,256 m

Natural resources: bauxite, gypsum, limestone

Land use: arable land:  14%

permanent crops:  6%

permanent pastures:  24%

forests and woodland:  17%

other:  39% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 350 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: hurricanes (especially July to November)

Environment - current issues: heavy rates of deforestation; coastal
waters polluted by industrial waste, sewage, and oil spills; damage
to coral reefs; air pollution in Kingston results from vehicle
emissions

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification,
Endangered Species, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Marine Life
Conservation, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship
Pollution, Wetlands

signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Geography - note: strategic location between Cayman Trench and
Jamaica Channel, the main sea lanes for Panama Canal



Jamaica    People

Population: 2,665,636 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  29.7% (male 405,189; female 386,555)

15-64 years:  63.52% (male 845,226; female 847,944)

65 years and over:  6.78% (male 80,667; female 100,055) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 0.51% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 18.12 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 5.48 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: -7.52 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.81 male(s)/female

total population:  1 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 14.16 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  75.42 years

male:  73.45 years

female:  77.49 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 2.08 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 0.71% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 9,900 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: 650 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Jamaican(s)

adjective:  Jamaican

Ethnic groups: black 90.9%, East Indian 1.3%, white 0.2%, Chinese
0.2%, mixed 7.3%, other 0.1%

Religions: Protestant 61.3% (Church of God 21.2%, Baptist 8.8%,
Anglican 5.5%, Seventh-Day Adventist 9%, Pentecostal 7.6%, Methodist
2.7%, United Church 2.7%, Brethren 1.1%, Jehovah's Witness 1.6%,
Moravian 1.1%), Roman Catholic 4%, other, including some spiritual
cults 34.7%

Languages: English, Creole

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over has ever attended school

total population:  85%

male:  80.8%

female:  89.1% (1995 est.)



Jamaica    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  none

conventional short form:  Jamaica

Government type: constitutional parliamentary democracy

Capital: Kingston

Administrative divisions: 14 parishes; Clarendon, Hanover, Kingston,
Manchester, Portland, Saint Andrew, Saint Ann, Saint Catherine,
Saint Elizabeth, Saint James, Saint Mary, Saint Thomas, Trelawny,
Westmoreland

Independence: 6 August 1962 (from UK)

National holiday: Independence Day, first Monday in August (1962)

Constitution: 6 August 1962

Legal system: based on English common law; has not accepted
compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6
February 1952), represented by Governor General Sir Howard Felix
COOKE (since 1 August 1991)

head of government:  Prime Minister Percival James PATTERSON (since
30 March 1992) and Deputy Prime Minister Seymour MULLINGS (since NA
1993)

cabinet:  Cabinet appointed by the governor general on the advice of
the prime minister

elections:  none; the monarch is hereditary; governor general
appointed by the monarch on the recommendation of the prime
minister; prime minister and deputy prime minister appointed by the
governor general

Legislative branch: bicameral Parliament consists of the Senate (a
21-member body appointed by the governor general on the
recommendations of the prime minister and the leader of the
opposition; ruling party is allocated 13 seats, and the opposition
is allocated eight seats) and the House of Representatives (60
seats; members are elected by popular vote to serve five-year terms)

elections:  last held 18 December 1997 (next to be held by March
2002)

election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
PNP 50, JLP 10

Judicial branch: Supreme Court (judges appointed by the governor
general on the advice of the prime minister); Court of Appeal

Political parties and leaders: Jamaica Labor Party or JLP [Edward
SEAGA]; National Democratic Movement or NDM [Bruce GOLDING];
People's National Party or PNP [Percival James PATTERSON]

Political pressure groups and leaders: New Beginnings Movement or
NBM; Rastafarians (black religious/racial cultists, pan-Africanists)

International organization participation: ACP, C, Caricom, CCC, CDB,
ECLAC, FAO, G-15, G-19, G-77, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, ICRM,
IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO (pending member), ILO, IMF, IMO, Intelsat,
Interpol, IOC, IOM (observer), ISO, ITU, LAES, NAM, OAS, OPANAL,
OPCW, UN, UN Security Council (temporary), UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO,
UPU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Richard Leighton BERNAL

chancery:  1520 New Hampshire Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20036

telephone:  [1] (202) 452-0660

FAX:  [1] (202) 452-0081

consulate(s) general:  Miami and New York

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Stanley Louis MCLELLAND

embassy:  Jamaica Mutual Life Center, 2 Oxford Road, 3rd floor,
Kingston 5

mailing address:  use embassy street address

telephone:  [1] (876) 929-4850 through 4859

FAX:  [1] (876) 926-6743

Flag description: diagonal yellow cross divides the flag into four
triangles - green (top and bottom) and black (hoist side and outer
side)



Jamaica    Economy

Economy - overview: Key sectors in this island economy are bauxite
(alumina and bauxite account for more than half of exports) and
tourism. Since assuming office in 1992, Prime Minister PATTERSON has
eliminated most price controls, streamlined tax schedules, and
privatized government enterprises. Continued tight monetary and
fiscal policies have helped slow inflation - although inflationary
pressures are mounting - and stabilize the exchange rate, but have
resulted in the slowdown of economic growth (moving from 1.5% in
1992 to 0.5% in 1995). In 1996, GDP showed negative growth (-1.4%)
and remained negative through 1999. Serious problems include: high
interest rates; increased foreign competition; the weak financial
condition of business in general resulting in receiverships or
closures and downsizings of companies; the shift in investment
portfolios to non-productive, short-term high yield instruments; a
pressured, sometimes sliding, exchange rate; a widening merchandise
trade deficit; and a growing internal debt for government bailouts
to various ailing sectors of the economy, particularly the financial
sector. Depressed economic conditions in 1999-2000 led to increased
civil unrest, including a mounting crime rate. Jamaica's medium-term
prospects will depend upon encouraging investment in the productive
sectors, maintaining a competitive exchange rate, stabilizing the
labor environment, selling off reacquired firms, and implementing
proper fiscal and monetary policies.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $9.7 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 0.2% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $3,700 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  7.4%

industry:  35.2%

services:  57.4% (1999 est.)

Population below poverty line: 34.2% (1992 est.)

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:
2.9%

highest 10%:  28.9% (1996)

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 8.8% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 1.13 million (1998)

Labor force - by occupation: services 60%, agriculture 21%, industry
19% (1998)

Unemployment rate: 16% (2000 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $2.23 billion

expenditures:  $2.56 billion, including capital expenditures of
$232.5 million (FY99/00 est.)

Industries: tourism, bauxite, textiles, food processing, light
manufactures, rum, cement, metal, paper, chemical products

Industrial production growth rate: -2% (2000 est.)

Electricity - production: 6.53 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  92.28%

hydro:  1.36%

nuclear:  0%

other:  6.36% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 6.073 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: sugarcane, bananas, coffee, citrus,
potatoes, vegetables; poultry, goats, milk

Exports: $1.7 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Exports - commodities: alumina, bauxite; sugar, bananas, rum

Exports - partners: US 35.7%, EU (excluding UK) 15.8%, UK 13%,
Canada 10.5% (1999)

Imports: $3 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Imports - commodities: machinery and transport equipment,
construction materials, fuel, food, chemicals, fertilizers

Imports - partners: US 47.8%, Caricom countries 12.4%, Latin America
7.2%, EU (excluding UK) 4.7% (1999)

Debt - external: $4.7 billion (2000 est.)

Economic aid - recipient: $102.7 million (1995)

Currency: Jamaican dollar (JMD)

Currency code: JMD

Exchange rates: Jamaican dollars per US dollar - 45.557 (January
2001), 42.701 (2000), 39.044 (1999), 36.550 (1998), 35.404 (1997),
37.120 (1996)

Fiscal year: 1 April - 31 March



Jamaica    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 353,000 (1996)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 54,640 (1996)

Telephone system: general assessment:  fully automatic domestic
telephone network

domestic:  NA

international:  satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat (Atlantic
Ocean); 3 coaxial submarine cables

Radio broadcast stations: AM 10, FM 13, shortwave 0 (1998)

Radios: 1.215 million (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 7 (1997)

Televisions: 460,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .jm

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 21 (2000)

Internet users: 60,000 (2000)



Jamaica    Transportation

Railways: total:  370 km

standard gauge:  370 km 1.435-m gauge; note - 207 km belong to the
Jamaica Railway Corporation in common carrier service, but are no
longer operational; the remaining track is privately owned and used
to transport bauxite

Highways: total:  19,000 km

paved:  13,433 km

unpaved:  5,567 km (1997)

Waterways: none

Pipelines: petroleum products 10 km

Ports and harbors: Alligator Pond, Discovery Bay, Kingston, Montego
Bay, Ocho Rios, Port Antonio, Rocky Point, Port Esquivel (Longswharf)

Merchant marine: total:  1 ship (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 1,930
GRT/3,065 DWT

ships by type:  petroleum tanker 1 (2000 est.)

Airports: 35 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  11

2,438 to 3,047 m:  2

1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

914 to 1,523 m:  3

under 914 m:  5 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  24

914 to 1,523 m:  2

under 914 m:  22 (2000 est.)



Jamaica    Military

Military branches: Jamaica Defense Force (includes Ground Forces,
Coast Guard, and Air Wing), Jamaica Constabulary Force

Military manpower - military age: 18 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  736,627 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
517,077 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  27,729
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $30 million (FY95/96 est.)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: NA%



Jamaica    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

Illicit drugs: major transshipment point for cocaine from South
America to North America and Europe; illicit cultivation of
cannabis; government has an active manual cannabis eradication
program; corruption is a major concern

======================================================================

@Jan Mayen





Jan Mayen    Introduction

Background: This desolate, mountainous island was named after a
Dutch whaling captain who indisputably discovered it in 1614
(earlier claims are inconclusive). Visited only occasionally by seal
hunters and trappers over the following centuries, the island came
under Norwegian sovereignty in 1929. The long dormant Beerenberg
volcano resumed activity in 1970; it is the northernmost active
volcano on earth.



Jan Mayen    Geography

Location: Northern Europe, island between the Greenland Sea and the
Norwegian Sea, northeast of Iceland

Geographic coordinates: 71 00 N, 8 00 W

Map references: Arctic Region

Area: total:  373 sq km

land:  373 sq km

water:  0 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly more than twice the size of Washington,
DC

Land boundaries: 0 km

Coastline: 124.1 km

Maritime claims: contiguous zone:  10 NM

continental shelf:  200-m depth or to the depth of exploitation

exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  4 NM

Climate: arctic maritime with frequent storms and persistent fog

Terrain: volcanic island, partly covered by glaciers

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Norwegian Sea 0 m

highest point:  Haakon VII Toppen/Beerenberg 2,277 m

Natural resources: none

Land use: arable land:  0%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  0%

forests and woodland:  0%

other:  100%

Irrigated land: 0 sq km (1993)

Natural hazards: dominated by the volcano Haakon VII
Toppen/Beerenberg; volcanic activity resumed in 1970

Environment - current issues: NA

Geography - note: barren volcanic island with some moss and grass



Jan Mayen    People

Population: no indigenous inhabitants

note:  there are personnel who operate the Long Range Navigation
(Loran-C) base and the weather and coastal services radio station
(July 2001 est.)



Jan Mayen    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  none

conventional short form:  Jan Mayen

Dependency status: territory of Norway; administered from Oslo
through a governor (sysselmann) resident in Longyearbyen (Svalbard);
however, authority has been delegated to a station commander of the
Norwegian Defense Communication Service

Legal system: the laws of Norway, where applicable, apply

Flag description: the flag of Norway is used



Jan Mayen    Economy

Economy - overview: Jan Mayen is a volcanic island with no
exploitable natural resources. Economic activity is limited to
providing services for employees of Norway's radio and
meteorological stations located on the island.



Jan Mayen    Communications

Radio broadcast stations: AM NA, FM NA, shortwave NA

note:  there is one radio and meteorological station (1998)

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 13 (Jan Mayen and Svalbard) (2000)



Jan Mayen    Transportation

Waterways: none

Ports and harbors: none; offshore anchorage only

Airports: 1 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  1

1,524 to 2,437 m:  1 (2000 est.)



Jan Mayen    Military

Military - note: defense is the responsibility of Norway



Jan Mayen    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

======================================================================

@Japan




Japan    Introduction

Background: While retaining its time-honored culture, Japan rapidly
absorbed Western technology during the late 19th and early 20th
centuries. After its devastating defeat in World War II, Japan
recovered to become the second most powerful economy in the world
and a staunch ally of the US. While the emperor retains his throne
as a symbol of national unity, actual power rests in networks of
powerful politicians, bureaucrats, and business executives. The
economy experienced a major slowdown in the 1990s following three
decades of unprecedented growth.



Japan    Geography

Location: Eastern Asia, island chain between the North Pacific Ocean
and the Sea of Japan, east of the Korean Peninsula

Geographic coordinates: 36 00 N, 138 00 E

Map references: Asia

Area: total:  377,835 sq km

land:  374,744 sq km

water:  3,091 sq km

note:  includes Bonin Islands (Ogasawara-gunto), Daito-shoto,
Minami-jima, Okino-tori-shima, Ryukyu Islands (Nansei-shoto), and
Volcano Islands (Kazan-retto)

Area - comparative: slightly smaller than California

Land boundaries: 0 km

Coastline: 29,751 km

Maritime claims: contiguous zone:  24 NM

exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM; between 3 NM and 12 NM in the international
straits - La Perouse or Soya, Tsugaru, Osumi, and Eastern and
Western Channels of the Korea or Tsushima Strait

Climate: varies from tropical in south to cool temperate in north

Terrain: mostly rugged and mountainous

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Hachiro-gata -4 m

highest point:  Fujiyama 3,776 m

Natural resources: negligible mineral resources, fish

Land use: arable land:  11%

permanent crops:  1%

permanent pastures:  2%

forests and woodland:  67%

other:  19% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 27,820 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: many dormant and some active volcanoes; about 1,500
seismic occurrences (mostly tremors) every year; tsunamis; typhoons

Environment - current issues: air pollution from power plant
emissions results in acid rain; acidification of lakes and
reservoirs degrading water quality and threatening aquatic life;
Japan is one of the largest consumers of fish and tropical timber,
contributing to the depletion of these resources in Asia and
elsewhere

Environment - international agreements: party to:
Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic-Marine Living Resources,
Antarctic Seals, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change,
Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification,
Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Nuclear Test Ban,
Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical
Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling

signed, but not ratified:  Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol

Geography - note: strategic location in northeast Asia



Japan    People

Population: 126,771,662 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  14.64% (male 9,510,296; female 9,043,074)

15-64 years:  67.83% (male 43,202,513; female 42,790,187)

65 years and over:  17.53% (male 9,351,340; female 12,874,252) (2001
est.)

Population growth rate: 0.17% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 10.04 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 8.34 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1.01 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.73 male(s)/female

total population:  0.96 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 3.88 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  80.8 years

male:  77.62 years

female:  84.15 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 1.41 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 0.02% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 10,000 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: 150 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Japanese (singular and plural)

adjective:  Japanese

Ethnic groups: Japanese 99.4%, Korean 0.6% (1999)

Religions: observe both Shinto and Buddhist 84%, other 16%
(including Christian 0.7%)

Languages: Japanese

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  99% (1970 est.)

male:  NA%

female:  NA%



Japan    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  none

conventional short form:  Japan

Government type: constitutional monarchy with a parliamentary
government

Capital: Tokyo

Administrative divisions: 47 prefectures; Aichi, Akita, Aomori,
Chiba, Ehime, Fukui, Fukuoka, Fukushima, Gifu, Gumma, Hiroshima,
Hokkaido, Hyogo, Ibaraki, Ishikawa, Iwate, Kagawa, Kagoshima,
Kanagawa, Kochi, Kumamoto, Kyoto, Mie, Miyagi, Miyazaki, Nagano,
Nagasaki, Nara, Niigata, Oita, Okayama, Okinawa, Osaka, Saga,
Saitama, Shiga, Shimane, Shizuoka, Tochigi, Tokushima, Tokyo,
Tottori, Toyama, Wakayama, Yamagata, Yamaguchi, Yamanashi

Independence: 660 BC (traditional founding by Emperor Jimmu)

National holiday: Birthday of Emperor AKIHITO, 23 December (1933)

Constitution: 3 May 1947

Legal system: modeled after European civil law system with
English-American influence; judicial review of legislative acts in
the Supreme Court; accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction, with
reservations

Suffrage: 20 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  Emperor AKIHITO (since 7 January
1989)

head of government:  Prime Minister Junichiro KOIZUMI (since 24
April 2001)

cabinet:  Cabinet appointed by the prime minister

elections:  none; the monarch is hereditary; the Diet designates the
prime minister; the constitution requires that the prime minister
must command a parliamentary majority, therefore, following
legislative elections, the leader of the majority party or leader of
a majority coalition in the House of Representatives usually becomes
prime minister

note:  following the resignation of Prime Minister Yoshiro MORI,
Junichiro KOIZUMI was elected as the new president of the majority
Liberal Democratic Party, and soon thereafter designated by the Diet
to become the next prime minister

Legislative branch: bicameral Diet or Kokkai consists of the House
of Councillors or Sangi-in (252 seats; one-half of the members
elected every three years - 76 seats of which are elected from the
47 multi-seat prefectural districts and 50 of which are elected from
a single nationwide list; members elected by popular vote to serve
six-year terms) and the House of Representatives or Shugi-in (480
seats - 180 of which are elected from 11 regional blocks on a
proportional representation basis and 300 of which are elected from
300 single-seat districts; members elected by popular vote to serve
four-year terms)

elections:  House of Councillors - last held 12 July 1998 (next to
be held NA July 2001); House of Representatives - last held 25 June
2000 (next to be held by June 2004)

election results:  House of Councillors - percent of vote by party -
NA%; seats by party - LDP 102, DPJ 47, JCP 23, Komeito 22, SDP 13,
Liberal Party 12, independents 26, others 7; note - the distribution
of seats as of February 2001 is as follows - LDP 112, DPJ 58,
Komeito 24, JCP 23, SDP 13, Liberal Party 5, independents 7, others
10; House of Representatives - percent of vote by party - NA%; seats
by party - LDP 233, DPJ 127, Komeito 31, Liberal Party 22, JCP 20,
SDP 19, other 28; note - the distribution of seats as of February
2001 is as follows - LDP 239, DPJ 129, Komeito 31, Liberal Party 22,
JCP 20, SDP 19, other 20

Judicial branch: Supreme Court (chief justice is appointed by the
monarch after designation by the cabinet; all other justices are
appointed by the cabinet)

Political parties and leaders: Democratic Party of Japan or DPJ
[Yukio HATOYAMA, leader, Naoto KAN, secretary general]; Japan
Communist Party or JCP [Kazuo SHII, chairman, Tadaaki ICHIDA,
secretary general]; Komeito [Takenori KANZAKI, president, Tetsuzo
FUYUSHIBA, secretary general]; Liberal Democratic Party or LDP
[Junichiro KOIZUMI, president, Taku YAMASAKI, secretary general];
Liberal Party [Ichiro OZAWA, president, Hirohisa FUJII, secretary
general]; New Conservative Party [Chikage OGI, president, Takeshi
NODA, secretary general]; Social Democratic Party or SDP [Takako
DOI, chairperson, Sadao FUCHIGAMI, secretary general]

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: AfDB, APEC, ARF (dialogue
partner), AsDB, ASEAN (dialogue partner), Australia Group, BIS, CCC,
CE (observer), CERN (observer), CP, EBRD, ESCAP, FAO, G- 5, G- 7,
G-10, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IEA, IFAD, IFC,
IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM,
ISO, ITU, NAM (guest), NEA, NSG, OAS (observer), OECD, OPCW, OSCE
(partner), PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNDOF, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNITAR,
UNRWA, UNU, UPU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO, ZC

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Shunji YANAI

chancery:  2520 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone:  [1] (202) 238-6700

FAX:  [1] (202) 328-2187

consulate(s) general:  Anchorage, Atlanta, Boston, Chicago, Denver,
Detroit, Hagatna (Guam), Honolulu, Houston, Kansas City (Missouri),
Los Angeles, Miami, New Orleans, New York, Portland (Oregon), San
Francisco, and Seattle

consulate(s):  Saipan (Northern Mariana Islands)

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:
Ambassador-designate Howard H. BAKER, Jr.

embassy:  10-5 Akasaka 1-chome, Minato-ku, Tokyo 107-8420

mailing address:  Unit 45004, Box 205, APO AP 96337-5004

telephone:  [81] (03) 3224-5000

FAX:  [81] (03) 3224-5856

consulate(s) general:  Naha (Okinawa), Osaka-Kobe, Sapporo

consulate(s):  Fukuoka, Nagoya

Flag description: white with a large red disk (representing the sun
without rays) in the center



Japan    Economy

Economy - overview: Government-industry cooperation, a strong work
ethic, mastery of high technology, and a comparatively small defense
allocation (1% of GDP) have helped Japan advance with extraordinary
rapidity to the rank of second most technologically powerful economy
in the world after the US and third largest economy in the world
after the US and China. One notable characteristic of the economy is
the working together of manufacturers, suppliers, and distributors
in closely-knit groups called keiretsu. A second basic feature has
been the guarantee of lifetime employment for a substantial portion
of the urban labor force. Both features are now eroding. Industry,
the most important sector of the economy, is heavily dependent on
imported raw materials and fuels. The much smaller agricultural
sector is highly subsidized and protected, with crop yields among
the highest in the world. Usually self-sufficient in rice, Japan
must import about 50% of its requirements of other grain and fodder
crops. Japan maintains one of the world's largest fishing fleets and
accounts for nearly 15% of the global catch. For three decades
overall real economic growth had been spectacular: a 10% average in
the 1960s, a 5% average in the 1970s, and a 4% average in the 1980s.
Growth slowed markedly in the 1990s largely because of the
aftereffects of overinvestment during the late 1980s and
contractionary domestic policies intended to wring speculative
excesses from the stock and real estate markets. Government efforts
to revive economic growth have met little success and were further
hampered in late 2000 by the slowing of the US and Asian economies.
The crowding of habitable land area and the aging of the population
are two major long-run problems. Robotics constitutes a key
long-term economic strength, with Japan possessing 410,000 of the
world's 720,000 "working robots".

GDP: purchasing power parity - $3.15 trillion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 1.3% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $24,900 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  2%

industry:  35%

services:  63% (1999 est.)

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:
4.8%

highest 10%:  21.7% (1993)

Inflation rate (consumer prices): -0.7% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 67.7 million (December 2000)

Labor force - by occupation: services 65%, industry 30%, agriculture
5%

Unemployment rate: 4.7% (2000)

Budget: revenues:  $441 billion

expenditures:  $718 billion, including capital expenditures (public
works only) of about $84 billion (FY01/02 est.)

Industries: among world's largest and technologically advanced
producers of motor vehicles, electronic equipment, machine tools,
steel and nonferrous metals, ships, chemicals; textiles, processed
foods

Industrial production growth rate: 5.3% (2000 est.)

Electricity - production: 1.018 trillion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  58.91%

hydro:  8.35%

nuclear:  30.31%

other:  2.43% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 947.038 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: rice, sugar beets, vegetables, fruit; pork,
poultry, dairy products, eggs; fish

Exports: $450 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Exports - commodities: motor vehicles, semiconductors, office
machinery, chemicals

Exports - partners: US 30%, Taiwan 7%, South Korea 6.4%, China 6.2%,
Hong Kong 5.6% (2000 est.)

Imports: $355 billion (c.i.f., 2000)

Imports - commodities: fuels, foodstuffs, chemicals, textiles,
office machinery

Imports - partners: US 19%, China 14.5%, South Korea 5.4%, Taiwan
4.8%, Indonesia 4.3%, Australia 3.9% (2000 est.)

Debt - external: $NA

Economic aid - donor: ODA, $9.1 billion (1999)

Currency: yen (JPY)

Currency code: JPY

Exchange rates: yen per US dollar - 117.10 (January 2001), 107.77
(2000), 113.91 (1999), 130.91 (1998), 120.99 (1997), 108.78 (1996)

Fiscal year: 1 April - 31 March



Japan    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 60.381 million (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 63.88 million (2000)

Telephone system: general assessment:  excellent domestic and
international service

domestic:  high level of modern technology and excellent service of
every kind

international:  satellite earth stations - 5 Intelsat (4 Pacific
Ocean and 1 Indian Ocean), 1 Intersputnik (Indian Ocean region), and
1 Inmarsat (Pacific and Indian Ocean regions); submarine cables to
China, Philippines, Russia, and US (via Guam) (1999)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 190, FM 88, shortwave 24 (1999)

Radios: 120.5 million (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 7,108 (plus 441 repeaters; note - in
addition, US Forces are served by 3 TV stations and 2 TV cable
services) (1999)

Televisions: 86.5 million (1997)

Internet country code: .jp

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 73 (2000)

Internet users: 27.06 million (2000)



Japan    Transportation

Railways: total:  23,670.7 km

standard gauge:  2,893.1 km 1.435-m gauge (entirely electrified)

narrow gauge:  89.8 km 1.372-m gauge (89.8 km electrified); 20,656.8
km 1.067-m gauge (10,383.6 km electrified); 31 km 0.762-m gauge (3.6
km electrified) (1994)

Highways: total:  1,152,207 km

paved:  863,003 km (including 6,114 km of expressways)

unpaved:  289,204 km (1997 est.)

Waterways: 1,770 km approximately

note:  seagoing craft ply all coastal inland seas

Pipelines: crude oil 84 km; petroleum products 322 km; natural gas
1,800 km

Ports and harbors: Akita, Amagasaki, Chiba, Hachinohe, Hakodate,
Higashi-Harima, Himeji, Hiroshima, Kawasaki, Kinuura, Kobe, Kushiro,
Mizushima, Moji, Nagoya, Osaka, Sakai, Sakaide, Shimizu, Tokyo,
Tomakomai

Merchant marine: total:  630 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
11,691,174 GRT/15,484,848 DWT

ships by type:  bulk 137, cargo 51, chemical tanker 15, combination
bulk 22, combination ore/oil 3, container 22, liquefied gas 49,
passenger 9, passenger/cargo 2, petroleum tanker 194, refrigerated
cargo 15, roll on/roll off 49, short-sea passenger 6, vehicle
carrier 56 (2000 est.)

Airports: 173 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  142

over 3,047 m:  8

2,438 to 3,047 m:  36

1,524 to 2,437 m:  38

914 to 1,523 m:  30

under 914 m:  30 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  31

914 to 1,523 m:  4

under 914 m:  27 (2000 est.)

Heliports: 16 (2000 est.)



Japan    Military

Military branches: Japan Ground Self-Defense Force (Army), Japan
Maritime Self-Defense Force (Navy), Japan Air Self-Defense Force
(Air Force)

Military manpower - military age: 18 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  29,926,614 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
25,876,484 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  765,817
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $43 billion (FY01)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 0.96% (FY01)



Japan    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: islands of Etorofu, Kunashiri, and
Shikotan, and the Habomai group occupied by the Soviet Union in
1945, now administered by Russia, claimed by Japan; Liancourt Rocks
(Takeshima/Tokdo) disputed with South Korea; Senkaku-shoto (Senkaku
Islands) claimed by China and Taiwan

======================================================================

@Jarvis Island




Jarvis Island    Introduction

Background: First discovered by the British in 1821, the uninhabited
island was annexed by the US in 1858, but abandoned in 1879 after
tons of guano had been removed. The UK annexed the island in 1889,
but never carried out plans for further exploitation. The US
occupied and reclaimed the island in 1935. Abandoned after World War
II, the island is currently a National Wildlife Refuge administered
by the US Department of the Interior; a day beacon is situated near
the middle of the west coast.



Jarvis Island    Geography

Location: Oceania, island in the South Pacific Ocean, about one-half
of the way from Hawaii to the Cook Islands

Geographic coordinates: 0 22 S, 160 03 W

Map references: Oceania

Area: total:  4.5 sq km

land:  4.5 sq km

water:  0 sq km

Area - comparative: about eight times the size of The Mall in
Washington, DC

Land boundaries: 0 km

Coastline: 8 km

Maritime claims: exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: tropical; scant rainfall, constant wind, burning sun

Terrain: sandy, coral island surrounded by a narrow fringing reef

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Pacific Ocean 0 m

highest point:  unnamed location 7 m

Natural resources: guano (deposits worked until late 1800s),
terrestrial and aquatic wildlife

Land use: arable land:  0%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  0%

forests and woodland:  0%

other:  100%

Irrigated land: 0 sq km (1998)

Natural hazards: the narrow fringing reef surrounding the island can
be a maritime hazard

Environment - current issues: no natural fresh water resources

Geography - note: sparse bunch grass, prostrate vines, and
low-growing shrubs; primarily a nesting, roosting, and foraging
habitat for seabirds, shorebirds, and marine wildlife



Jarvis Island    People

Population: uninhabited

note:  Millersville settlement on western side of island
occasionally used as a weather station from 1935 until World War II,
when it was abandoned; reoccupied in 1957 during the International
Geophysical Year by scientists who left in 1958; public entry is by
special-use permit from US Fish and Wildlife Service only and
generally restricted to scientists and educators; visited annually
by US Fish and Wildlife Service (July 2001 est.)



Jarvis Island    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  none

conventional short form:  Jarvis Island

Dependency status: unincorporated territory of the US; administered
from Washington, DC, by the Fish and Wildlife Service of the US
Department of the Interior as part of the National Wildlife Refuge
system

Legal system: the laws of the US, where applicable, apply

Flag description: the flag of the US is used



Jarvis Island    Economy

Economy - overview: no economic activity



Jarvis Island    Transportation

Waterways: none

Ports and harbors: none; offshore anchorage only; note - there is
one small boat landing area in the middle of the west coast and
another near the southwest corner of the island

Transportation - note: there is a day beacon near the middle of the
west coast



Jarvis Island    Military

Military - note: defense is the responsibility of the US; visited
annually by the US Coast Guard



Jarvis Island    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

======================================================================

@Jersey





Jersey    Introduction

Background: The island of Jersey and the other Channel Islands
represent the last remnants of the medieval Dukedom of Normandy that
held sway in both France and England. These islands were the only
British soil occupied by German troops in World War II.



Jersey    Geography

Location: Western Europe, island in the English Channel, northwest
of France

Geographic coordinates: 49 15 N, 2 10 W

Map references: Europe

Area: total:  116 sq km

land:  116 sq km

water:  0 sq km

Area - comparative: about 0.7 times the size of Washington, DC

Land boundaries: 0 km

Coastline: 70 km

Maritime claims: exclusive fishing zone:  12 NM

territorial sea:  3 NM

Climate: temperate; mild winters and cool summers

Terrain: gently rolling plain with low, rugged hills along north
coast

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Atlantic Ocean 0 m

highest point:  unnamed location 143 m

Natural resources: arable land

Land use: arable land:  66%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  0%

forests and woodland:  0%

other:  34%

Irrigated land: NA sq km

Natural hazards: NA

Environment - current issues: NA

Geography - note: largest and southernmost of Channel Islands; about
30% of population concentrated in Saint Helier



Jersey    People

Population: 89,361 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  17.77% (male 8,214; female 7,667)

15-64 years:  67.59% (male 30,065; female 30,331)

65 years and over:  14.64% (male 5,603; female 7,481) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 0.48% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 11.28 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 9.27 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 2.8 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.08 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.07 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  0.99 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.75 male(s)/female

total population:  0.96 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 5.62 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  78.63 years

male:  76.21 years

female:  81.23 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 1.56 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: NA%

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: NA

HIV/AIDS - deaths: NA

Nationality: noun:  Channel Islander(s)

adjective:  Channel Islander

Ethnic groups: UK and Norman-French descent

Religions: Anglican, Roman Catholic, Baptist, Congregational New
Church, Methodist, Presbyterian

Languages: English (official), French (official), Norman-French
dialect spoken in country districts

Literacy: definition:  NA

total population:  NA

male:  NA

female:  NA



Jersey    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Bailiwick of Jersey

conventional short form:  Jersey

Dependency status: British crown dependency

Government type: NA

Capital: Saint Helier

Administrative divisions: none (British crown dependency)

Independence: none (British crown dependency)

National holiday: Liberation Day, 9 May (1945)

Constitution: unwritten; partly statutes, partly common law and
practice

Legal system: English law and local statute

Suffrage: NA years of age; universal adult

Executive branch: chief of state:  Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6
February 1952)

head of government:  Lieutenant Governor and Commander in Chief Air
Chief Marshall Sir John CHESHIRE (since 24 January 2001) and Bailiff
Philip Martin BAILHACHE (since NA February 1995)

cabinet:  committees appointed by the Assembly of the States

elections:  none; the monarch is hereditary; lieutenant governor and
bailiff appointed by the monarch

Legislative branch: unicameral Assembly of the States (55 voting
members - 12 senators, 12 constables or heads of parishes, 29
deputies; all elected for six-year terms, half elected every third
year; the bailiff and the deputy bailiff; and 3 non-voting members -
the Dean of Jersey, the Attorney General and the Solicitor General
all appointed by the monarch

elections:  last held NA (next to be held NA)

election results:  percent of vote - NA%; seats - independents 52

Judicial branch: Royal Court (judges elected by an electoral college
and the bailiff)

Political parties and leaders: none; all independents

Political pressure groups and leaders: none

Diplomatic representation in the US: none (British crown dependency)

Diplomatic representation from the US: none (British crown
dependency)

Flag description: white with a diagonal red cross extending to the
corners of the flag and in the upper quadrant, surmounted by a
yellow crown, a red shield holding the three lions of England in
yellow



Jersey    Economy

Economy - overview: The economy is based largely on international
financial services, agriculture, and tourism. Potatoes, cauliflower,
tomatoes, and especially flowers are important export crops, shipped
mostly to the UK. The Jersey breed of dairy cattle is known
worldwide and represents an important export income earner. Milk
products go to the UK and other EU countries. In 1996 the finance
sector accounted for about 60% of the island's output. Tourism,
another mainstay of the economy, accounts for 24% of GDP. In recent
years, the government has encouraged light industry to locate in
Jersey, with the result that an electronics industry has developed
alongside the traditional manufacturing of knitwear. All raw
material and energy requirements are imported, as well as a large
share of Jersey's food needs. Light taxes and death duties make the
island a popular tax haven.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $2.2 billion (1999 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: NA%

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $24,800 (1999 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  5%

industry:  2%

services:  93% (1996)

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 4.7% (1998)

Labor force: 57,050 (1996)

Unemployment rate: 0.7% (1998 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $601 million

expenditures:  $588 million, including capital expenditures of $98
million (2000 est.)

Industries: tourism, banking and finance, dairy

Industrial production growth rate: NA%

Electricity - imports: NA kWh

note:  electricity supplied by France

Agriculture - products: potatoes, cauliflower, tomatoes; beef, dairy
products

Exports: $NA

Exports - commodities: light industrial and electrical goods,
foodstuffs, textiles

Exports - partners: UK

Imports: $NA

Imports - commodities: machinery and transport equipment,
manufactured goods, foodstuffs, mineral fuels, chemicals

Imports - partners: UK

Debt - external: none

Economic aid - recipient: none

Currency: British pound (GBP); note - there is also a Jersey pound

Currency code: GBP

Exchange rates: Jersey pounds per US dollar - 0.6764 (January 2001),
0.6596 (2000), 0.6180 (1999), 0.6037 (1998), 0.6106 (1997), 0.6403
(1996); the Jersey pound is at par with the British pound

Fiscal year: 1 April - 31 March



Jersey    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 65,500 (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 4,400 (1997)

Telephone system: general assessment:  NA

domestic:  NA

international:  3 submarine cables

Radio broadcast stations: AM NA, FM 1, shortwave 0 (1998)

Radios: NA

Television broadcast stations: 1 (1997)

Televisions: NA

Internet country code: .je

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): NA

Internet users: NA



Jersey    Transportation

Railways: 0 km

Highways: total:  577 km (1995)

paved:  NA km

unpaved:  NA km

Waterways: none

Ports and harbors: Gorey, Saint Aubin, Saint Helier

Merchant marine: none (2000 est.)

Airports: 1 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  1

1,524 to 2,437 m:  1 (2000 est.)



Jersey    Military

Military - note: defense is the responsibility of the UK



Jersey    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

======================================================================

@Johnston Atoll





Johnston Atoll    Introduction

Background: Both the US and the Kingdom of Hawaii annexed Johnston
Atoll in 1858, but it was the US that mined the guano deposits until
the late 1880s. The US Navy took over the atoll in 1934, and
subsequently the US Air Force assumed control in 1948. The site was
used for high altitude nuclear tests in the 1950s and 1960s, and
until late in 2000 the atoll was maintained as a storage and
disposal site for chemical weapons. Munitions destruction is now
complete, and cleanup and closure of the facility is progressing.



Johnston Atoll    Geography

Location: Oceania, atoll in the North Pacific Ocean 717 NM (1328 km)
southwest of Honolulu, Hawaii, about one-third of the way from
Hawaii to the Marshall Islands

Geographic coordinates: 16 45 N, 169 31 W

Map references: Oceania

Area: total:  2.8 sq km

land:  2.8 sq km

water:  0 sq km

Area - comparative: about 4.7 times the size of The Mall in
Washington, DC

Land boundaries: 0 km

Coastline: 10 km

Maritime claims: exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: tropical, but generally dry; consistent northeast trade
winds with little seasonal temperature variation

Terrain: mostly flat

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Pacific Ocean 0 m

highest point:  Summit Peak 5 m

Natural resources: guano deposits worked until depletion about 1890,
terrestrial and aquatic wildlife

Land use: arable land:  0%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  0%

forests and woodland:  0%

other:  100%

Irrigated land: 0 sq km (1998)

Natural hazards: NA

Environment - current issues: no natural fresh water resources

Geography - note: strategic location in the North Pacific Ocean;
Johnston Island and Sand Island are natural islands, which have been
expanded by coral dredging; North Island (Akau) and East Island
(Hikina) are manmade islands formed from coral dredging; egg-shaped
reef is 34 km in circumference; closed to the public; former US
nuclear weapons test site; site of Johnston Atoll Chemical Agent
Disposal System (JACADS); some low-growing vegetation



Johnston Atoll    People

Population: no indigenous inhabitants

note:  in previous years, there was an average of 1,100 US military
and civilian contractor personnel present; as of 1 October 2000,
population decreased to approximately 970 when US Army Chemical
Activity Pacific (USACAP) departed (January 2001 est.)

Population growth rate: -5.94% (2001 est.)



Johnston Atoll    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  none

conventional short form:  Johnston Atoll

Dependency status: unincorporated territory of the US; administered
from Washington, DC, by Pacific Air Forces, Hickam AFB, and the Fish
and Wildlife Service of the US Department of the Interior as part of
the National Wildlife Refuge system

Legal system: the laws of the US, where applicable, apply

Flag description: the flag of the US is used



Johnston Atoll    Economy

Economy - overview: Economic activity is limited to providing
services to US military personnel and contractors located on the
island. All food and manufactured goods must be imported.

Electricity - production: approximately 1,000,000 kWh weekly; note -
there are six 25,000 kWh generators supplied by the base operating
support contractor (1999)

Electricity - consumption: NA kWh



Johnston Atoll    Communications

Telephone system: general assessment:  13 outgoing and 10 incoming
commercial lines; adequate telecommunications

domestic:  60-channel submarine cable, 22 DSN circuits by satellite,
Autodin with standard remote terminal, digital telephone switch,
Military Affiliated Radio System (MARS station), UHF/VHF air-ground
radio, a link to the Pacific Consolidated Telecommunications Network
(PCTN) satellite

international:  NA

Radio broadcast stations: AM NA, FM NA, shortwave NA

Television broadcast stations: commercial satellite television
system, with 16 channels (1997)

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): NA



Johnston Atoll    Transportation

Waterways: none

Ports and harbors: Johnston Island

Airports: 1; note - six flights per week; three commercial, three
military (2001 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  1

2,438 to 3,047 m:  1 (2000 est.)



Johnston Atoll    Military

Military - note: defense is the responsibility of the US



Johnston Atoll    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

======================================================================

@Jordan




Jordan    Introduction

Background: For most of its history since independence from British
administration in 1946, Jordan was ruled by King HUSSEIN
(1953-1999). A pragmatic ruler, he successfully navigated competing
pressures from the major powers (US, USSR, and UK), various Arab
states, Israel, and a large internal Palestinian population, through
several wars and coup attempts. In 1989 he resumed parliamentary
elections and gradually permitted political liberalization; in 1994
a formal peace treaty was signed with Israel. King ABDALLAH II - the
eldest son of King HUSSEIN and Princess MUNA - assumed the throne
following his father's death in February 1999. Since then, he has
consolidated his power and established his domestic priorities.



Jordan    Geography

Location: Middle East, northwest of Saudi Arabia

Geographic coordinates: 31 00 N, 36 00 E

Map references: Middle East

Area: total:  92,300 sq km

land:  91,971 sq km

water:  329 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly smaller than Indiana

Land boundaries: total:  1,619 km

border countries:  Iraq 181 km, Israel 238 km, Saudi Arabia 728 km,
Syria 375 km, West Bank 97 km

Coastline: 26 km

Maritime claims: territorial sea:  3 NM

Climate: mostly arid desert; rainy season in west (November to April)

Terrain: mostly desert plateau in east, highland area in west; Great
Rift Valley separates East and West Banks of the Jordan River

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Dead Sea -408 m

highest point:  Jabal Ram 1,734 m

Natural resources: phosphates, potash, shale oil

Land use: arable land:  4%

permanent crops:  1%

permanent pastures:  9%

forests and woodland:  1%

other:  85% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 630 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: droughts

Environment - current issues: limited natural fresh water resources;
deforestation; overgrazing; soil erosion; desertification

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous
Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone
Layer Protection, Wetlands

signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements



Jordan    People

Population: 5,153,378 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  37.23% (male 980,345; female 938,081)

15-64 years:  59.44% (male 1,633,579; female 1,429,631)

65 years and over:  3.33% (male 84,815; female 86,927) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 3% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 25.44 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 2.62 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 7.18 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.06 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1.14 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.98 male(s)/female

total population:  1.1 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 20.36 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  77.53 years

male:  75.1 years

female:  80.12 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 3.29 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 0.02% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: NA

HIV/AIDS - deaths: NA

Nationality: noun:  Jordanian(s)

adjective:  Jordanian

Ethnic groups: Arab 98%, Circassian 1%, Armenian 1%

Religions: Sunni Muslim 92%, Christian 6% (majority Greek Orthodox,
but some Greek Catholics, Roman Catholics, Syrian Orthodox, Coptic
Orthodox, Armenian Orthodox, and Protestant denominations), other 2%
(several small Shi'a Muslim and Druze populations) (2000 est.)

Languages: Arabic (official), English widely understood among upper
and middle classes

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  86.6%

male:  93.4%

female:  79.4% (1995 est.)



Jordan    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan

conventional short form:  Jordan

local long form:  Al Mamlakah al Urduniyah al Hashimiyah

local short form:  Al Urdun

former:  Transjordan

Government type: constitutional monarchy

Capital: Amman

Administrative divisions: 12 governorates (muhafazat, singular -
muhafazah); Ajlun, Al 'Aqabah, Al Balqa', Al Karak, Al Mafraq,
'Amman, At Tafilah, Az Zarqa', Irbid, Jarash, Ma'an, Madaba

Independence: 25 May 1946 (from League of Nations mandate under
British administration)

National holiday: Independence Day, 25 May (1946)

Constitution: 8 January 1952

Legal system: based on Islamic law and French codes; judicial review
of legislative acts in a specially provided High Tribunal; has not
accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Suffrage: 20 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  King ABDALLAH II (since 7
February 1999); Crown Prince HAMZAH (half brother of the monarch,
born 29 March 1980)

head of government:  Prime Minister Ali Abul RAGHEB (since 19 June
2000)

cabinet:  Cabinet appointed by the prime minister in consultation
with the monarch

elections:  none; the monarch is hereditary; prime minister
appointed by the monarch

Legislative branch: bicameral National Assembly or Majlis al-'Umma
consists of the Senate (a 40-member body appointed by the monarch
from designated categories of public figures; members serve
four-year terms) and the House of Representatives (80 seats; members
elected by popular vote on the basis of proportional representation
to serve four-year terms)

elections:  House of Representatives - last held 4 November 1997
(next to be held NA November 2001)

election results:  House of Representatives - percent of vote by
party - NA%; seats by party - National Constitutional Party 2, Arab
Land Party 1, independents 75, other 2

note:  the House of Representatives has been convened and dissolved
by the monarch several times since 1974; in November 1989 the first
parliamentary elections in 22 years were held

Judicial branch: Court of Cassation; Supreme Court (court of final
appeal)

Political parties and leaders: Al-Umma (Nation) Party [Ahmad
al-HANANDEH, secretary general]; Arab Land Party [Dr. Muhammad
al-'ORAN, secretary general]; Jordanian Democratic Popular Unity
Party [Sa'eed THIYAB, secretary general]; National Constitutional
Party [Abdul Hadi MAJALI, secretary general]

Political pressure groups and leaders: Council of Professional
Association Presidents [Ahmad al-QADIRI, chairman]; Jordanian Press
Association [Sayf al-SHARIF, president]; Muslim Brotherhood
[Abd-al-Majid DHUNAYBAT, secretary general]

International organization participation: ABEDA, ACC, AFESD, AL,
AMF, CAEU, CCC, ESCWA, FAO, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU,
ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Intelsat, Interpol,
IOC, IOM, ISO (correspondent), ITU, MINURSO, MONUC, NAM, OIC, OPCW,
OSCE (partner), PCA, UN, UNAMSIL, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNMEE,
UNMIBH, UNMIK, UNMOP, UNMOT, UNOMIG, UNRWA, UNTAET, UPU, WFTU, WHO,
WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Marwan Jamil MUASHER

chancery:  3504 International Drive NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone:  [1] (202) 966-2664

FAX:  [1] (202) 966-3110

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
William J. BURNS

embassy:  Abdoum, Amman

mailing address:  P. O. Box 354, Amman 11118 Jordan; APO AE
09892-0200

telephone:  [962] (6) 5920101

FAX:  [962] (6) 5920121

Flag description: three equal horizontal bands of black (top, the
Abbassid Caliphate of Islam), white (the Ummayyad Caliphate of
Islam), and green (the Fatimid Caliphate of Islam) with a red
isosceles triangle (representing the Great Arab Revolt of 1916)
based on the hoist side bearing a small white seven-pointed star
symbolizing the seven verses of the opening Sura (Al-Fatiha) of the
Holy Koran; the seven points on the star represent faith in One God,
humanity, national spirit, humility, social justice, virtue, and
aspirations



Jordan    Economy

Economy - overview: Jordan is a small Arab country with inadequate
supplies of water and other natural resources such as oil. The
Persian Gulf crisis, which began in August 1990, aggravated Jordan's
already serious economic problems, forcing the government to stop
most debt payments and suspend rescheduling negotiations. Aid from
Gulf Arab states, worker remittances, and trade revenues contracted.
Refugees flooded the country, producing serious balance-of-payments
problems, stunting GDP growth, and straining government resources.
The economy rebounded in 1992, largely due to the influx of capital
repatriated by workers returning from the Gulf. After averaging 9%
in 1992-95, GDP growth averaged only 1.5% during 1996-99. In an
attempt to spur growth, King ABDALLAH has undertaken limited
economic reform, including partial privatization of some state-owned
enterprises and Jordan's entry in January 2000 into the World Trade
Organization (WTrO). Debt, poverty, and unemployment are fundamental
ongoing economic problems.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $17.3 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 2% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $3,500 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  3%

industry:  25%

services:  72% (1998 est.)

Population below poverty line: 30% (1998 est.)

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:
2.4%

highest 10%:  34.7% (1991)

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 0.7% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 1.15 million

note:  in addition, at least 300,000 workers are employed abroad
(1997 est.)

Labor force - by occupation: industry 11.4%, commerce, restaurants,
and hotels 10.5%, construction 10%, transport and communications
8.7%, agriculture 7.4%, other services 52% (1992)

Unemployment rate: 15% official rate; actual rate is 25%-30% (1999
est.)

Budget: revenues:  $2.8 billion

expenditures:  $3.1 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
(2000 est.)

Industries: phosphate mining, petroleum refining, cement, potash,
light manufacturing, tourism

Industrial production growth rate: 3.8% (2000 est.)

Electricity - production: 6.657 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  99.79%

hydro:  0.21%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 6.594 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 4 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 407 million kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: wheat, barley, citrus, tomatoes, melons,
olives; sheep, goats, poultry

Exports: $2 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Exports - commodities: phosphates, fertilizers, potash, agricultural
products, manufactures

Exports - partners: India, Iraq, Saudi Arabia, EU, Indonesia, UAE,
Lebanon, Kuwait, Syria, Ethiopia

Imports: $4 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Imports - commodities: crude oil, machinery, transport equipment,
food, live animals, manufactured goods

Imports - partners: Iraq, Germany, US, Japan, UK, Italy, Turkey,
Malaysia, Syria, China

Debt - external: $8 billion (2000 est.)

Economic aid - recipient: ODA, $850 million (1996 est.)

Currency: Jordanian dinar (JOD)

Currency code: JOD

Exchange rates: Jordanian dinars per US dollar - 0.7090
(1996-present )

note:  since May 1989, the Jordanian dinar has been pegged to a
group of currencies

Fiscal year: calendar year



Jordan    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 403,000 (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 11,500 (1995)

Telephone system: general assessment:  service has improved recently
with the increased use of digital switching equipment, but better
access to the telephone system is needed in the rural areas and
easier access to pay telephones is needed by the urban public

domestic:  microwave radio relay transmission and coaxial and
fiber-optic cable are employed on trunk lines; considerable use is
made of mobile cellular systems; Internet service is available

international:  satellite earth stations - 3 Intelsat, 1 Arabsat,
and 29 land and maritime Inmarsat terminals; fiber-optic cable to
Saudi Arabia and microwave radio relay link with Egypt and Syria;
connection to international submarine cable FLAG (Fiber-Optic Link
Around the Globe); participant in MEDARABTEL; international links
total about 4,000

Radio broadcast stations: AM 6, FM 5, shortwave 1 (1999)

Radios: 1.66 million (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 20 (plus 96 repeaters) (1995)

Televisions: 500,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .jo

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 5 (2000)

Internet users: 87,500 (2000)



Jordan    Transportation

Railways: total:  677 km

narrow gauge:  677 km 1.050-m gauge (2000)

Highways: total:  8,000 km

paved:  8,000 km

unpaved:  0 km (2000 est.)

Waterways: none

Pipelines: crude oil 209 km; note - may not be in use

Ports and harbors: Al 'Aqabah

Merchant marine: total:  6 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 40,919
GRT/57,777 DWT

ships by type:  bulk 1, cargo 3, container 1, roll on/roll off 1
(2000 est.)

Airports: 18 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  15

over 3,047 m:  7

2,438 to 3,047 m:  6

914 to 1,523 m:  1

under 914 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  3

under 914 m:  3 (2000 est.)

Heliports: 1 (2000 est.)



Jordan    Military

Military branches: Jordanian Armed Forces (JAF; includes Royal
Jordanian Land Force, Royal Naval Force, and Royal Jordanian Air
Force); Ministry of the Interior's Public Security Force (falls
under JAF only in wartime or crisis situations)

Military manpower - military age: 18 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  1,458,571 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
1,034,109 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  57,131
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $608.9 million (FY98/99)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 7.8% (FY98/99)



Jordan    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

======================================================================

@Juan de Nova Island





Juan de Nova Island    Introduction

Background: Named after a famous 15th century Spanish navigator and
explorer, the island has been a French possession since 1897. It has
been exploited for its guano and phosphate. Presently a small
military garrison oversees a meteorological station.



Juan de Nova Island    Geography

Location: Southern Africa, island in the Mozambique Channel, about
one-third of the way between Madagascar and Mozambique

Geographic coordinates: 17 03 S, 42 45 E

Map references: Africa

Area: total:  4.4 sq km

land:  4.4 sq km

water:  0 sq km

Area - comparative: about seven times the size of The Mall in
Washington, DC

Land boundaries: 0 km

Coastline: 24.1 km

Maritime claims: continental shelf:  200-m depth or to the depth of
exploitation

exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: tropical

Terrain: low and flat

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Indian Ocean 0 m

highest point:  unnamed location 10 m

Natural resources: guano deposits and other fertilizers

Land use: arable land:  0%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  0%

forests and woodland:  90%

other:  10%

Irrigated land: 0 sq km (1993)

Natural hazards: periodic cyclones

Environment - current issues: NA

Geography - note: wildlife sanctuary



Juan de Nova Island    People

Population: no indigenous inhabitants

note:  there is a small French military garrison (July 2001 est.)



Juan de Nova Island    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  none

conventional short form:  Juan de Nova Island

local long form:  none

local short form:  Ile Juan de Nova

Dependency status: possession of France; administered by a high
commissioner of the Republic, resident in Reunion

Legal system: the laws of France, where applicable, apply

Diplomatic representation in the US: none (possession of France)

Diplomatic representation from the US: none (possession of France)

Flag description: the flag of France is used



Juan de Nova Island    Economy

Economy - overview: Up to 12,000 tons of guano are mined per year.



Juan de Nova Island    Communications

Communications - note: 1 meteorological station



Juan de Nova Island    Transportation

Railways: total:  NA km; short line going to a jetty

Waterways: none

Ports and harbors: none; offshore anchorage only

Airports: 1 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  1

914 to 1,523 m:  1 (2000 est.)



Juan de Nova Island    Military

Military - note: defense is the responsibility of France



Juan de Nova Island    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: claimed by Madagascar

======================================================================

@Kazakhstan




Kazakhstan    Introduction

Background: Native Kazakhs, a mix of Turkic and Mongol nomadic
tribes who migrated into the region in the 13th century, were rarely
united as a single nation. The area was conquered by Russia in the
18th century and Kazakhstan became a Soviet Republic in 1936. During
the 1950s and 1960s agricultural "Virgin Lands" program, Soviet
citizens were encouraged to help cultivate Kazakhstan's northern
pastures. This influx of immigrants (mostly Russians, but also some
other deported nationalities) skewed the ethnic mixture and enabled
non-Kazakhs to outnumber natives. Independence has caused many of
these newcomers to emigrate. Current issues include: developing a
cohesive national identity; expanding the development of the
country's vast energy resources and exporting them to world markets;
and continuing to strengthen relations with neighboring states and
other foreign powers.



Kazakhstan    Geography

Location: Central Asia, northwest of China

Geographic coordinates: 48 00 N, 68 00 E

Map references: Commonwealth of Independent States

Area: total:  2,717,300 sq km

land:  2,669,800 sq km

water:  47,500 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly less than four times the size of Texas

Land boundaries: total:  12,012 km

border countries:  China 1,533 km, Kyrgyzstan 1,051 km, Russia 6,846
km, Turkmenistan 379 km, Uzbekistan 2,203 km

Coastline: 0 km (landlocked); note - Kazakhstan borders the Aral
Sea, now split into two bodies of water (1,070 km), and the Caspian
Sea (1,894 km)

Maritime claims: none (landlocked)

Climate: continental, cold winters and hot summers, arid and semiarid

Terrain: extends from the Volga to the Altai Mountains and from the
plains in western Siberia to oases and desert in Central Asia

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Vpadina Kaundy -132 m

highest point:  Khan Tangiri Shyngy (Pik Khan-Tengri) 6,995 m

Natural resources: major deposits of petroleum, natural gas, coal,
iron ore, manganese, chrome ore, nickel, cobalt, copper, molybdenum,
lead, zinc, bauxite, gold, uranium

Land use: arable land:  12%

permanent crops:  11%

permanent pastures:  57%

forests and woodland:  4%

other:  16% (1996 est.)

Irrigated land: 22,000 sq km (1996 est.)

Natural hazards: earthquakes in the south, mudslides around Almaty

Environment - current issues: radioactive or toxic chemical sites
associated with its former defense industries and test ranges are
found throughout the country and pose health risks for humans and
animals; industrial pollution is severe in some cities; because the
two main rivers which flowed into the Aral Sea have been diverted
for irrigation, it is drying up and leaving behind a harmful layer
of chemical pesticides and natural salts; these substances are then
picked up by the wind and blown into noxious dust storms; pollution
in the Caspian Sea; soil pollution from overuse of agricultural
chemicals and salination from poor infrastructure and wasteful
irrigation practices

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Air Pollution,
Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species,
Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution

signed, but not ratified:  Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol

Geography - note: landlocked; Russia leases approximately 6,000 sq
km of territory enclosing the Baykonur Cosmodrome



Kazakhstan    People

Population: 16,731,303 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  26.73% (male 2,271,866; female 2,200,078)

15-64 years:  66.03% (male 5,358,535; female 5,688,550)

65 years and over:  7.24% (male 412,761; female 799,513) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 0.03% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 17.3 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 10.61 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: -6.43 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.03 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  0.94 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.52 male(s)/female

total population:  0.93 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 59.17 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  63.29 years

male:  57.87 years

female:  68.97 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 2.07 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 0.04% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 3,500 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: less than 100 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Kazakhstani(s)

adjective:  Kazakhstani

Ethnic groups: Kazakh (Qazaq) 53.4%, Russian 30%, Ukrainian 3.7%,
Uzbek 2.5%, German 2.4%, Uighur 1.4%, other 6.6% (1999 census)

Religions: Muslim 47%, Russian Orthodox 44%, Protestant 2%, other 7%

Languages: Kazakh (Qazaq, state language) 40%, Russian (official,
used in everyday business) 66%

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  98%

male:  99%

female:  96% (1989 est.)



Kazakhstan    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Republic of Kazakhstan

conventional short form:  Kazakhstan

local long form:  Qazaqstan Respublikasy

local short form:  none

former:  Kazakh Soviet Socialist Republic

Government type: republic

Capital: Astana; note - the government moved from Almaty to Astana
in December 1998

Administrative divisions: 14 oblystar (singular - oblysy) and 3
cities (qala, singular - qalasy)*; Almaty, Almaty*, Aqmola (Astana),
Aqtobe, Astana*, Atyrau, Batys Qazaqstan (Oral), Bayqongyr*,
Mangghystau (Aqtau; formerly Shevchenko), Ongtustik Qazaqstan
(Shymkent), Pavlodar, Qaraghandy, Qostanay, Qyzylorda, Shyghys
Qazaqstan (Oskemen; formerly Ust'-Kamenogorsk), Soltustik Qazaqstan
(Petropavl), Zhambyl (Taraz; formerly Dzhambul)

note:  administrative divisions have the same names as their
administrative centers (exceptions have the administrative center
name following in parentheses); in 1995 the Governments of
Kazakhstan and Russia entered into an agreement whereby Russia would
lease for a period of 20 years an area of 6,000 sq km enclosing the
Baykonur space launch facilities and the city of Bayqongyr
(Baykonyr, formerly Leninsk)

Independence: 16 December 1991 (from the Soviet Union)

National holiday: Republic Day, 25 October (1990)

Constitution: adopted by national referendum 30 August 1995; first
post-independence constitution was adopted 28 January 1993

Legal system: based on civil law system

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Nursultan A. NAZARBAYEV
(chairman of the Supreme Soviet from 22 February 1990, elected
president 1 December 1991)

head of government:  Prime Minister Kazymzhomart TOKAYEV (since 2
October 1999)

cabinet:  Council of Ministers appointed by the president

elections:  president elected by popular vote for a seven-year term;
election last held 10 January 1999, a year before it was previously
scheduled (next to be held NA 2006); note - President NAZARBAYEV's
previous term had been extended to 2000 by a nationwide referendum
held 30 April 1995; prime minister and first deputy prime minister
appointed by the president

election results:  Nursultan A. NAZARBAYEV reelected president;
percent of vote - Nursultan A. NAZARBAYEV 81.7%, Serikbolsyn
ABDILDIN 12.1%, Gani KASYMOV 4.7%, other 1.5%

note:  President NAZARBAYEV expanded his presidential powers by
decree: only he can initiate constitutional amendments, appoint and
dismiss the government, dissolve Parliament, call referenda at his
discretion, and appoint administrative heads of regions and cities

Legislative branch: bicameral Parliament consists of the Senate (47
seats; 7 senators are appointed by the president; other members are
popularly elected, two from each of the former oblasts and the
former capital of Almaty, to serve six-year terms) and the Majilis
(67 seats; the addition of 10 "Party List" seats brings the total to
77; members are popularly elected to serve five-year terms); note -
with the oblasts being reduced to 14, the Senate will eventually be
reduced to 37; a number of Senate seats come up for reelection every
two years

elections:  Senate - (indirect) last held 17 September 1999 (next to
be held NA 2001); Majilis - last held 10 and 24 October and 26
December 1999 (next to be held NA 2004)

election results:  Senate - percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by
party - NA; 16 seats up for election in 1999, candidates nominated
by local councils; Majilis - percent of vote by party - NA%; seats
by party - Otan 23, Civic Party 13, Communist Party 3, Agrarian
Party 3, People's Cooperative Party 1, independents 34; note - most
independent candidates are affiliated with parastatal enterprises
and other pro-government institutions

Judicial branch: Supreme Court (44 members); Constitutional Council
(7 members)

Political parties and leaders: Agrarian Party [Romin MADENOV]; Alash
[Soverkazhy AKATAYEV]; AZAMAT Movement [Petr SVOIK, Murat AUEZOV,
and Galym ABILSIITOV, cochairmen]; Civic Party [Azat PERUASHEV,
first secretary]; Communist Party or KPK [Serikbolsyn ABDILDIN,
first secretary]; Forum of Democratic Forces [Nurbulat MASANOV,
Deputy Chairman of the Republican People's Party of Kazakhstan
(RNPK); Amirzhan KOSANOV, RNPK activist; Seidakhmet KUTTYKADAM,
Orleu Movement; cochairmen]; Labor and Worker's Movement [Madel
ISMAILOV, chairman]; Orleu Movement [Seidakhmet KUTTYKADAM]; Otan
[Sergei TERESCHENKO, chairman]; Pensioners Movement or Pokoleniye
[Irina SAVOSTINA, chairwoman]; People's Congress of Kazakhstan of
NKK [Olzhas SULEIMENOV, chairman]; People's Cooperative Party
[Umirzak SARSENOV]; People's Unity Party or PUP [Nursultan A.
NAZARBAYEV]; Republican People's Party of Kazakhstan or RNPK
[Akezhan KAZHEGELDIN]

Political pressure groups and leaders: Kazakhstan International
Bureau on Human Rights [Yevgeniy ZHOVTIS, executive director]

International organization participation: AsDB, CCC, CIS, EAPC,
EBRD, ECE, ECO, ESCAP, FAO, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC,
ILO, IMF, IMO, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM (observer), ISO, ITU,
NAM (observer), OAS (observer), OIC, OPCW, OSCE, PFP, UN, UNCTAD,
UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO (observer)

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Kanat SAUDABAYEV

chancery:  1401 16th Street, NW, Washington, DC 20036

telephone:  [1] (202) 232-5488

FAX:  [1] (202) 232-5845

consulate(s):  New York

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Richard H. JONES

embassy:  99/97A Furmanova Street, Almaty, Republic of Kazakhstan
480091

mailing address:  American Embassy Almaty, Department of State,
Washington, DC 20521-7030

telephone:  [7] (3272) 63-39-21, 50-76-23, 50-76-27 (emergency
number)

FAX:  [7] (3272) 63-38-83, 50-76-24

Flag description: sky blue background representing the endless sky
and a gold sun with 32 rays soaring above a golden steppe eagle in
the center; on the hoist side is a "national ornamentation" in gold



Kazakhstan    Economy

Economy - overview: Kazakhstan, the second largest of the former
Soviet republics in territory, possesses enormous fossil fuel
reserves as well as plentiful supplies of other minerals and metals.
It also is a large agricultural - livestock and grain - producer.
Kazakhstan's industrial sector rests on the extraction and
processing of these natural resources and also on a growing
machine-building sector specializing in construction equipment,
tractors, agricultural machinery, and some defense items. The
breakup of the USSR in December 1991 and the collapse of demand for
Kazakhstan's traditional heavy industry products resulted in a
short-term contraction of the economy, with the steepest annual
decline occurring in 1994. In 1995-97, the pace of the government
program of economic reform and privatization quickened, resulting in
a substantial shifting of assets into the private sector. The
Caspian Pipeline Consortium agreement to build a new pipeline from
western Kazakhstan's Tengiz oil field to the Black Sea increases
prospects for substantially larger oil exports in several years.
Kazakhstan's economy again turned downward in 1998 with a 2% decline
in GDP due to slumping oil prices and the August financial crisis in
Russia. The recovery of international oil prices in 1999, combined
with a well-timed tenge devaluation and a bumper grain harvest,
pulled the economy out of recession in 2000. Astana has embarked
upon an industrial policy designed to diversify the economy away
from overdependence on the oil sector by developing light industry.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $85.6 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 10.5% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $5,000 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  10%

industry:  30%

services:  60% (1999 est.)

Population below poverty line: 35% (1999 est.)

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:
2.7%

highest 10%:  26.3% (1996)

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 13.4% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 8.8 million (1997)

Labor force - by occupation: industry 27%, agriculture 23%, services
50% (1996)

Unemployment rate: 13.7% (1998 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $3.1 billion

expenditures:  $3.6 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
(1999 est.)

Industries: oil, coal, iron ore, manganese, chromite, lead, zinc,
copper, titanium, bauxite, gold, silver, phosphates, sulfur, iron
and steel, nonferrous metal, tractors and other agricultural
machinery, electric motors, construction materials

Industrial production growth rate: 14.9% (2000 est.)

Electricity - production: 44.36 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  87.12%

hydro:  12.65%

nuclear:  0.23%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 44.132 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 200 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 3.077 billion kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: grain (mostly spring wheat), cotton; wool,
livestock

Exports: $8.8 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Exports - commodities: oil 40%, ferrous and nonferrous metals,
machinery, chemicals, grain, wool, meat, coal

Exports - partners: EU 23%, Russia 20%, China 8% (1999)

Imports: $6.9 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Imports - commodities: machinery and parts, industrial materials,
oil and gas, vehicles

Imports - partners: Russia 37%, US, Uzbekistan, Turkey, UK, Germany,
Ukraine, South Korea (1999)

Debt - external: $12.5 billion (2000 est.)

Economic aid - recipient: $409.6 million (1995)

Currency: tenge (KZT)

Currency code: KZT

Exchange rates: tenge per US dollar - 145.09 (January 2001), 142.13
(2000), 119.52 (1999), 78.30 (1998), 75.44 (1997), 67.30 (1996)

Fiscal year: calendar year



Kazakhstan    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 1.818 million (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 11,202 (1997)

Telephone system: general assessment:  service is poor; equipment
antiquated

domestic:  intercity by landline and microwave radio relay; mobile
cellular systems are available in most of Kazakhstan

international:  international traffic with other former Soviet
republics and China carried by landline and microwave radio relay;
with other countries by satellite and by the Trans-Asia-Europe (TAE)
fiber-optic cable; satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat

Radio broadcast stations: AM 60, FM 17, shortwave 9 (1998)

Radios: 6.47 million (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 12 (plus nine repeaters) (1998)

Televisions: 3.88 million (1997)

Internet country code: .kz

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): NA

Internet users: 70,000 (2000)



Kazakhstan    Transportation

Railways: total:  14,400 km in common carrier service; does not
include industrial lines

broad gauge:  14,400 km 1.520-m gauge (3,299 km electrified) (1997)

Highways: total:  NA km

paved:  150,000 km (these roads are said to be hard-surfaced, and
include, in addition to conventionally paved roads, some that are
surfaced with gravel or other coarse aggregate, making them
trafficable in all weather) (2000)

unpaved:  NA km (these roads are made of unstabilized earth and are
difficult to negotiate in wet weather)

Waterways: 3,900 km

note:  on the Syrdariya (Syr Darya) and Ertis (Irtysh) rivers

Pipelines: crude oil 2,850 km; refined products 1,500 km; natural
gas 3,480 km (1992)

Ports and harbors: Aqtau (Shevchenko), Atyrau (Gur'yev), Oskemen
(Ust-Kamenogorsk), Pavlodar, Semey (Semipalatinsk)

Airports: 449 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  28

over 3,047 m:  6

2,438 to 3,047 m:  14

1,524 to 2,437 m:  5

under 914 m:  3 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  421

over 3,047 m:  11

2,438 to 3,047 m:  18

1,524 to 2,437 m:  45

914 to 1,523 m:  101

under 914 m:  246 (2000 est.)



Kazakhstan    Military

Military branches: General Purpose Forces (Army), Air Force, Border
Guards, Navy, Republican Guard

Military manpower - military age: 18 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  4,509,179 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
3,598,859 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  163,628
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $322 million (FY99)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 1.5% (FY99)



Kazakhstan    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: Caspian Sea boundaries are not yet
determined among Azerbaijan, Iran, Kazakhstan, Russia, and
Turkmenistan

Illicit drugs: significant illicit cultivation of cannabis and
limited cultivation of opium poppy and ephedra (for the drug
ephedrone); limited government eradication program; cannabis
consumed largely in the CIS; used as transshipment point for illicit
drugs to Russia, North America, and Western Europe from Southwest
Asia; developing heroin addiction problem

======================================================================

@Kenya




Kenya    Introduction

Background: Revered president and liberation struggle icon Jomo
KENYATTA led Kenya from independence until his death in 1978, when
current President Daniel Toroitich arap MOI took power in a
constitutional succession. The country was a de facto one-party
state from 1969 until 1982 when the ruling Kenya African National
Union (KANU) made itself the sole legal party in Kenya. MOI acceded
to internal and external pressure for political liberalization in
late 1991. The ethnically fractured opposition failed to dislodge
KANU from power in elections in 1992 and 1997, which were marred by
violence and fraud, but are viewed as having generally reflected the
will of the Kenyan people. The country faces a period of political
uncertainty because MOI is constitutionally required to step down at
the next elections that have to be held by early 2003.



Kenya    Geography

Location: Eastern Africa, bordering the Indian Ocean, between
Somalia and Tanzania

Geographic coordinates: 1 00 N, 38 00 E

Map references: Africa

Area: total:  582,650 sq km

land:  569,250 sq km

water:  13,400 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly more than twice the size of Nevada

Land boundaries: total:  3,446 km

border countries:  Ethiopia 830 km, Somalia 682 km, Sudan 232 km,
Tanzania 769 km, Uganda 933 km

Coastline: 536 km

Maritime claims: continental shelf:  200-m depth or to the depth of
exploitation

exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: varies from tropical along coast to arid in interior

Terrain: low plains rise to central highlands bisected by Great Rift
Valley; fertile plateau in west

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Indian Ocean 0 m

highest point:  Mount Kenya 5,199 m

Natural resources: gold, limestone, soda ash, salt barites, rubies,
fluorspar, garnets, wildlife, hydropower

Land use: arable land:  7%

permanent crops:  1%

permanent pastures:  37%

forests and woodland:  30%

other:  25% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 660 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: recurring drought in northern and eastern regions;
flooding during rainy seasons

Environment - current issues: water pollution from urban and
industrial wastes; degradation of water quality from increased use
of pesticides and fertilizers; water hyacinth infestation in Lake
Victoria; deforestation; soil erosion; desertification; poaching

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous
Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Marine Life Conservation,
Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands,
Whaling

signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Geography - note: the Kenyan Highlands comprise one of the most
successful agricultural production regions in Africa; glaciers on
Mt. Kenya; unique physiography supports abundant and varied wildlife
of scientific and economic value



Kenya    People

Population: 30,765,916

note:  estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
life expectancy, higher infant mortality and death rates, lower
population and growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  41.95% (male 6,524,776; female 6,381,192)

15-64 years:  55.26% (male 8,529,842; female 8,471,609)

65 years and over:  2.79% (male 376,151; female 482,346) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 1.27% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 28.5 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 14.35 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: -1.5 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

note:  according to UNHCR, by the end of 1999 Kenya was host to
223,700 refugees from neighboring countries, including: Somalia
141,000 and Sudan 64,250

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.03 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.02 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1.01 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.78 male(s)/female

total population:  1.01 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 67.99 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  47.49 years

male:  46.57 years

female:  48.44 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 3.5 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 13.95% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 2.1 million (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: 180,000 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Kenyan(s)

adjective:  Kenyan

Ethnic groups: Kikuyu 22%, Luhya 14%, Luo 13%, Kalenjin 12%, Kamba
11%, Kisii 6%, Meru 6%, other African 15%, non-African (Asian,
European, and Arab) 1%

Religions: Protestant 38%, Roman Catholic 28%, indigenous beliefs
26%, Muslim 7%, other 1%

note:  a large majority of Kenyans are Christian, but estimates for
the percentage of the population that adheres to Islam or indigenous
beliefs vary widely

Languages: English (official), Kiswahili (official), numerous
indigenous languages

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  78.1%

male:  86.3%

female:  70% (1995 est.)



Kenya    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Republic of Kenya

conventional short form:  Kenya

former:  British East Africa

Government type: republic

Capital: Nairobi

Administrative divisions: 7 provinces and 1 area*; Central, Coast,
Eastern, Nairobi Area*, North Eastern, Nyanza, Rift Valley, Western

Independence: 12 December 1963 (from UK)

National holiday: Independence Day, 12 December (1963)

Constitution: 12 December 1963, amended as a republic 1964; reissued
with amendments 1979, 1983, 1986, 1988, 1991, 1992, and 1997

Legal system: based on English common law, tribal law, and Islamic
law; judicial review in High Court; accepts compulsory ICJ
jurisdiction, with reservations; constitutional amendment of 1982
making Kenya a de jure one-party state repealed in 1991

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Daniel Toroitich arap
MOI (since 14 October 1978); note - the president is both the chief
of state and head of government

head of government:  President Daniel Toroitich arap MOI (since 14
October 1978); note - the president is both the chief of state and
head of government

cabinet:  Cabinet appointed by the president

elections:  president elected by popular vote from among the members
of the National Assembly for a five-year term; in addition to
receiving the largest number of votes in absolute terms, the
presidential candidate must also win 25% or more of the vote in at
least five of Kenya's seven provinces and one area to avoid a
runoff; election last held 29 December 1997 (next to be held by
early 2003); vice president appointed by the president

election results:  President Daniel Toroitich arap MOI reelected;
percent of vote - Daniel T. arap MOI (KANU) 40.6%, Mwai KIBAKI (DP)
31.5%, Raila ODINGA (NDP) 11.1%, Michael WAMALWA (FORD-K) 8.4%,
Charity NGILU (SDP) 7.8%

Legislative branch: unicameral National Assembly or Bunge (222
seats; 210 members elected by popular vote to serve five-year terms,
12 so-called "nominated" members who are appointed by the president,
but selected by the parties in proportion to their parliamentary
vote totals)

elections:  last held 29 December 1997 (next to be held by early
2003)

election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
KANU 107, FORD-A 1, FORD-K 17, FORD-People 3, DP 39, NDP 21, SDP 15,
SAFINA 5, smaller parties 2; seats appointed by the president - KANU
6, FORD-K 1, DP 2, SDP 1, NDP 1, SAFINA 1

Judicial branch: Court of Appeal (chief justice is appointed by the
president); High Court

Political parties and leaders: Democratic Party of Kenya or DP [Mwai
KIBAKI]; Forum for the Restoration of Democracy-Asili or FORD-A
[Martin SHIKUKU, secretary general]; Forum for the Restoration of
Democracy-Kenya or FORD-K [Michael Kijana WAMALWA]; Forum for the
Restoration of Democracy-People or FORD-People [Kimaniwa NYOIKE,
chairman]; Kenya African National Union or KANU [President Daniel
Toroitich arap MOI] - the governing party; National Development
Party or NDP [Raila ODINGA, president]; SAFINA [Farah MAALIM,
chairman]; Social Democratic Party or SDP [Dr. Apollo NJONJO,
secretary general and Justus NYANG'AYA, chairman]

Political pressure groups and leaders: human rights groups; labor
unions; Muslim organizations; National Convention Executive Council
or NCEC, a proreform coalition of political parties and
nongovernment organizations [Kivutha KIBWANA]; Protestant National
Council of Churches of Kenya or NCCK [Mutava MUSYIMI]; Roman
Catholic and other Christian churches; Supreme Council of Kenya
Muslims or SUPKEM [Shaykh Abdul Gafur al-BUSAIDY, chairman]

International organization participation: ACP, AfDB, C, CCC, EADB,
ECA, FAO, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC,
IFRCS, IGAD, ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM,
ISO, ITU, MINURSO, MONUC, NAM, OAU, OPCW, UN, UNAMSIL, UNCTAD,
UNESCO, UNIDO, UNIKOM, UNMEE, UNMIBH, UNMIK, UNMOP, UNTAET, UNU,
UPU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Yusuf Abdulraham NZIBO

chancery:  2249 R Street NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone:  [1] (202) 387-6101

FAX:  [1] (202) 462-3829

consulate(s) general:  offices in Los Angeles and New York are
closed; mission to the UN remains open

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Johnnie CARSON

embassy:  US Embassy, Mombasa Road, Nairobi

mailing address:  P. O. Box 30137, Box 21A, Unit 64100, APO AE 09831

telephone:  [254] (2) 537-800

FAX:  [254] (2) 537-810

Flag description: three equal horizontal bands of black (top), red,
and green; the red band is edged in white; a large warrior's shield
covering crossed spears is superimposed at the center



Kenya    Economy

Economy - overview: Kenya is well placed to serve as an engine of
growth in East Africa, but its economy has been stagnating because
of poor management and uneven commitment to reform. In 1993, the
government of Kenya implemented a program of economic liberalization
and reform that included the removal of import licensing, price
controls, and foreign exchange controls. With the support of the
World Bank, IMF, and other donors, the reforms led to a brief
turnaround in economic performance following a period of negative
growth in the early 1990s. Kenya's real GDP grew 5% in 1995 and 4%
in 1996, and inflation remained under control. Growth slowed after
1997, averaging only 1.5% in 1997-2000. In 1997, political violence
damaged the tourist industry, and Kenya's Enhanced Structural
Adjustment Program lapsed due to the government's failure to
maintain reform or address public sector corruption. Severe drought
in 1999 and 2000 caused water and energy rationing and reduced
agricultural sector productivity. A new economic team was put in
place in 1999 to revitalize the reform effort, strengthen the civil
service, and curb corruption. The IMF and World Bank renewed their
support to Kenya in mid-2000, but a number of setbacks to the
economic reform program in late 2000 have renewed donor and private
sector concern about the government's commitment to sound
governance. Long-term barriers to development include electricity
shortages, inefficient government dominance of key sectors, endemic
corruption, and high population growth.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $45.6 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 0.4% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $1,500 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  25%

industry:  13%

services:  62% (1999 est.)

Population below poverty line: 42% (1992 est.)

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:
1.8%

highest 10%:  34.9% (1994)

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 7% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 9.2 million (1998 est.)

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture 75%-80%

Unemployment rate: 50% (1998 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $2.91 billion

expenditures:  $2.97 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
(2000 est.)

Industries: small-scale consumer goods (plastic, furniture,
batteries, textiles, soap, cigarettes, flour), agricultural products
processing; oil refining, cement; tourism

Industrial production growth rate: 0.5% (2000 est.)

Electricity - production: 4.225 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  31%

hydro:  67%

nuclear:  0%

other:  2% (1999 est.)

Electricity - consumption: 4.075 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 146 million kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: coffee, tea, corn, wheat, sugarcane, fruit,
vegetables; dairy products, beef, pork, poultry, eggs

Exports: $1.7 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Exports - commodities: tea, coffee, horticultural products,
petroleum products, fish, cement

Exports - partners: Uganda 18%, UK 15%, Tanzania 12%, Pakistan 8%
(1999)

Imports: $3 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Imports - commodities: machinery and transportation equipment,
petroleum products, iron and steel

Imports - partners: UK 12%, UAE 8%, Japan 8%, US 7% (1999)

Debt - external: $6.2 billion (2000)

Economic aid - recipient: $457 million (1997)

Currency: Kenyan shilling (KES)

Currency code: KES

Exchange rates: Kenyan shillings per US dollar - 78.733 (December
2000), 76.176 (2000), 70.326 (1999), 60.367 (1998), 58.732 (1997),
57.115 (1996)

Fiscal year: 1 July - 30 June



Kenya    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 290,000 (1998)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 5,345 (1997)

Telephone system: general assessment:  unreliable; little attempt to
modernize except for service to business

domestic:  trunks are primarily microwave radio relay; business data
commonly transferred by a very small aperture terminal (VSAT) system

international:  satellite earth stations - 4 Intelsat

Radio broadcast stations: AM 24, FM 8, shortwave 6 (1999)

Radios: 3.07 million (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 8 (1997)

Televisions: 730,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .ke

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 5 (2000)

Internet users: 45,000 (1999)



Kenya    Transportation

Railways: total:  2,778 km

narrow gauge:  2,778 km 1.000-m gauge

note:  the line connecting Nairobi with the port of Mombasa is the
most important in the country

Highways: total:  63,800 km

paved:  8,868 km

unpaved:  54,932 km (1996)

Waterways: NA

note:  part of the Lake Victoria system is within the boundaries of
Kenya

Pipelines: petroleum products 483 km

Ports and harbors: Kisumu, Lamu, Mombasa

Merchant marine: total:  2 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 4,893
GRT/6,255 DWT

ships by type:  petroleum tanker 1, roll on/roll off 1 (2000 est.)

Airports: 230 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  22

over 3,047 m:  4

2,438 to 3,047 m:  1

1,524 to 2,437 m:  3

914 to 1,523 m:  13

under 914 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  208

2,438 to 3,047 m:  1

1,524 to 2,437 m:  14

914 to 1,523 m:  109

under 914 m:  84 (2000 est.)



Kenya    Military

Military branches: Army, Navy, Air Force, paramilitary General
Service Unit of the Police

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  7,712,402 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
4,774,889 (2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $197 million (FY98/99)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 1.9% (FY98/99)



Kenya    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: administrative boundary with Sudan does
not coincide with international boundary

Illicit drugs: widespread harvesting of small plots of marijuana;
transit country for South Asian heroin destined for Europe and North
America; Indian methaqualone also transits on way to South Africa

======================================================================

@Kingman Reef




Kingman Reef    Introduction

Background: The US annexed the reef in 1922. Its sheltered lagoon
served as a way station for flying boats on Hawaii-to-American Samoa
flights during the late 1930s. There is no flora on the reef, which
is frequently awash, but it does support an abundant and diverse
marine fauna. In 2001, the waters surrounding the reef were
designated a National Wildlife Refuge.



Kingman Reef    Geography

Location: Oceania, reef in the North Pacific Ocean, about one-half
of the way from Hawaii to American Samoa

Geographic coordinates: 6 24 N, 162 24 W

Map references: Oceania

Area: total:  1 sq km

land:  1 sq km

water:  0 sq km

Area - comparative: about 1.7 times the size of The Mall in
Washington, DC

Land boundaries: 0 km

Coastline: 3 km

Maritime claims: exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: tropical, but moderated by prevailing winds

Terrain: low and nearly level

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Pacific Ocean 0 m

highest point:  unnamed location 1 m

Natural resources: terrestrial and aquatic wildlife

Land use: arable land:  0%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  0%

forests and woodland:  0%

other:  100%

Irrigated land: 0 sq km (1996)

Natural hazards: wet or awash most of the time, maximum elevation of
about 1 meter makes Kingman Reef a maritime hazard

Environment - current issues: none

Geography - note: barren coral atoll with deep interior lagoon;
closed to the public



Kingman Reef    People

Population: uninhabited (July 2001 est.)



Kingman Reef    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  none

conventional short form:  Kingman Reef

Dependency status: unincorporated territory of the US; administered
from Washington, DC, by the US Fish and Wildlife Service of the
Department of the Interior

note:  on 1 September 2000, the Department of the Interior accepted
restoration of its administrative jurisdiction over Kingman Reef
from the Department of the Navy; Executive Order 3223 signed 18
January 2001 established Kingman Reef National Wildlife Refuge to be
administered by the Director, US Fish and Wildlife Service; this
refuge is managed to protect the terrestrial and aquatic wildlife of
Kingman Reef out to the twelve nautical mile territorial sea limit

Legal system: the laws of the US, where applicable, apply

Flag description: the flag of the US is used



Kingman Reef    Economy

Economy - overview: no economic activity



Kingman Reef    Transportation

Waterways: none

Ports and harbors: none; offshore anchorage only

Airports: lagoon was used as a halfway station between Hawaii and
American Samoa by Pan American Airways for flying boats in 1937 and
1938 (2000 est.)



Kingman Reef    Military

Military - note: defense is the responsibility of the US



Kingman Reef    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

======================================================================

@Kiribati




Kiribati    Introduction

Background: The Gilbert Islands were granted self-rule by the UK in
1971 and complete independence in 1979 under the new name of
Kiribati. The US relinquished all claims to the sparsely inhabited
Phoenix and Line Island groups in a 1979 treaty of friendship with
Kiribati.



Kiribati    Geography

Location: Oceania, group of islands in the Pacific Ocean, straddling
the equator, about one-half of the way from Hawaii to Australia;
note - on 1 January 1995, Kiribati proclaimed that all of its
territory lies in the same time zone as its Gilbert Islands group
(GMT +12) even though the Phoenix Islands and the Line Islands under
its jurisdiction lie on the other side of the International Date Line

Geographic coordinates: 1 25 N, 173 00 E

Map references: Oceania

Area: total:  717 sq km

land:  717 sq km

water:  0 sq km

note:  includes three island groups - Gilbert Islands, Line Islands,
Phoenix Islands

Area - comparative: four times the size of Washington, DC

Land boundaries: 0 km

Coastline: 1,143 km

Maritime claims: exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: tropical; marine, hot and humid, moderated by trade winds

Terrain: mostly low-lying coral atolls surrounded by extensive reefs

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Pacific Ocean 0 m

highest point:  unnamed location on Banaba 81 m

Natural resources: phosphate (production discontinued in 1979)

Land use: arable land:  0%

permanent crops:  51%

permanent pastures:  0%

forests and woodland:  3%

other:  46% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: NA sq km

Natural hazards: typhoons can occur any time, but usually November
to March; occasional tornadoes; low level of some of the islands
make them very sensitive to changes in sea level

Environment - current issues: heavy pollution in lagoon of south
Tarawa atoll due to heavy migration mixed with traditional practices
such as lagoon latrines and open-pit dumping; ground water at risk

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification,
Hazardous Wastes, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection

signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Geography - note: 20 of the 33 islands are inhabited; Banaba (Ocean
Island) in Kiribati is one of the three great phosphate rock islands
in the Pacific Ocean - the others are Makatea in French Polynesia,
and Nauru



Kiribati    People

Population: 94,149 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  40.53% (male 19,322; female 18,833)

15-64 years:  56.27% (male 26,136; female 26,841)

65 years and over:  3.2% (male 1,291; female 1,726) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 2.31% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 31.98 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 8.88 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.03 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  0.97 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.75 male(s)/female

total population:  0.99 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 54 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  60.16 years

male:  57.25 years

female:  63.22 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 4.36 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: NA%

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: NA

HIV/AIDS - deaths: NA

Nationality: noun:  I-Kiribati (singular and plural)

adjective:  I-Kiribati

Ethnic groups: predominantly Micronesian with some Polynesian

Religions: Roman Catholic 54%, Protestant (Congregational) 30%, some
Seventh-Day Adventist, Baha'i, Latter-day Saints, and Church of God
(1996)

Languages: English (official), I-Kiribati

Literacy: definition:  NA

total population:  NA%

male:  NA%

female:  NA%



Kiribati    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Republic of Kiribati

conventional short form:  Kiribati

note:  pronounced kir-ih-bahss

former:  Gilbert Islands

Government type: republic

Capital: Tarawa

Administrative divisions: 3 units; Gilbert Islands, Line Islands,
Phoenix Islands; note - in addition, there are 6 districts (Banaba,
Central Gilberts, Line Islands, Northern Gilberts, Southern
Gilberts, Tarawa) and 21 island councils - one for each of the
inhabited islands (Abaiang, Abemama, Aranuka, Arorae, Banaba, Beru,
Butaritari, Kanton, Kiritimati, Kuria, Maiana, Makin, Marakei,
Nikunau, Nonouti, Onotoa, Tabiteuea, Tabuaeran, Tamana, Tarawa,
Teraina)

Independence: 12 July 1979 (from UK)

National holiday: Independence Day, 12 July (1979)

Constitution: 12 July 1979

Legal system: NA

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Teburoro TITO (since 1
October 1994); Vice President Tewareka TENTOA (since 12 October
1994); note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
government

head of government:  President Teburoro TITO (since 1 October 1994);
Vice President Tewareka TENTOA (since 12 October 1994); note - the
president is both the chief of state and head of government

cabinet:  Cabinet appointed by the president from among the members
of the House of Assembly, includes the president, vice president,
attorney general, and up to eight other ministers

elections:  the House of Assembly chooses the presidential
candidates from among their members and then those candidates
compete in a general election; president is elected by popular vote
for a four-year term; election last held 27 November 1998 (next to
be held by NA November 2002); vice president appointed by the
president

election results:  Teburoro TITO reelected president; percent of
vote - Teburoro TITO 52.3%, Dr. Harry TONG 45.8%, Amberoti NIKORA
1.9%, Taberannang TIMEON 0%

Legislative branch: unicameral House of Assembly or Maneaba Ni
Maungatabu (41 seats; 39 elected by popular vote, one ex officio
member, and one nominated to represent Banaba; members serve
four-year terms)

elections:  last held 23 September 1998 (next to be held by NA
September 2002)

election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
Maneaban Te Mauri Party 14, National Progressive Party 11,
independents 14

Judicial branch: Court of Appeal; High Court; 26 Magistrates'
courts; judges at all levels are appointed by the president

Political parties and leaders: Maneaban Te Mauri Party [Teburoro
TITO]; National Progressive Party [Teatao TEANNAKI]

note:  there is no tradition of formally organized political parties
in Kiribati; they more closely resemble factions or interest groups
because they have no party headquarters, formal platforms, or party
structures

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: ACP, AsDB, C, ESCAP, FAO,
IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, Intelsat
(nonsignatory user), ITU, OPCW, Sparteca, SPC, SPF, UN, UNESCO, UPU,
WHO, WTrO (applicant)

Diplomatic representation in the US: Kiribati does not have an
embassy in the US; there is an honorary consulate in Honolulu

Diplomatic representation from the US: the US does not have an
embassy in Kiribati; the ambassador to the Marshall Islands is
accredited to Kiribati

Flag description: the upper half is red with a yellow frigate bird
flying over a yellow rising sun, and the lower half is blue with
three horizontal wavy white stripes to represent the ocean



Kiribati    Economy

Economy - overview: A remote country of 33 scattered coral atolls,
Kiribati has few national resources. Commercially viable phosphate
deposits were exhausted at the time of independence from the UK in
1979. Copra and fish now represent the bulk of production and
exports. The economy has fluctuated widely in recent years. Economic
development is constrained by a shortage of skilled workers, weak
infrastructure, and remoteness from international markets. Tourism
provides more than one-fifth of GDP. The financial sector is at an
early stage of development as is the expansion of private sector
initiatives. Foreign financial aid, largely from the UK and Japan,
is a critical supplement to GDP, equal to 25%-50% of GDP in recent
years. Remittances from workers abroad account for more than $5
million each year. Performance in 2000 fell short of the 2.5% growth
in 1999, which benefited from increased copra production and
exceptionally large revenues from fishing licenses.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $76 million (2000 est.), supplemented
by a nearly equal amount from external sources

GDP - real growth rate: 1% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $850 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  14%

industry:  7%

services:  79% (1996 est.)

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 2% (1999 est.)

Labor force: 7,870 economically active, not including subsistence
farmers (1985 est.)

Unemployment rate: 2%; underemployment 70% (1992 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $33.3 million

expenditures:  $47.7 million, including capital expenditures of $NA
million (1996 est.)

Industries: fishing, handicrafts

Industrial production growth rate: 0.7% (1992 est.)

Electricity - production: 7 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  100%

hydro:  0%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 6.5 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: copra, taro, breadfruit, sweet potatoes,
vegetables; fish

Exports: $6 million (f.o.b., 1998)

Exports - commodities: copra 62%, coconuts, seaweed, fish

Exports - partners: Bangladesh, Australia, US, Hong Kong (1999)

Imports: $44 million (c.i.f., 1999)

Imports - commodities: foodstuffs, machinery and equipment,
miscellaneous manufactured goods, fuel

Imports - partners: Australia, Fiji, Japan, NZ, China (1999)

Debt - external: $10 million (1999 est.)

Economic aid - recipient: $15.5 million (1995), largely from UK and
Japan

Currency: Australian dollar (AUD)

Currency code: AUD

Exchange rates: Australian dollars per US dollar - 1.7995 (January
2001), 1.7173 (2000), 1.5497 (1999), 1.5888 (1998), 1.3439 (1997),
1.2773 (1996)

Fiscal year: NA



Kiribati    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 2,000 (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: NA

Telephone system: general assessment:  NA

domestic:  NA

international:  satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (Pacific Ocean)

note:  Kiribati is being linked to the Pacific Ocean Cooperative
Telecommunications Network, which should improve telephone service

Radio broadcast stations: AM 1, FM 1, shortwave 1 (1998)

Radios: 17,000 (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 1 (1997)

Televisions: 1,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .ki

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 1 (2000)

Internet users: 1,000 (2000)



Kiribati    Transportation

Railways: 0 km

Highways: total:  670 km (1996)

paved:  NA km

unpaved:  NA km

Waterways: 5 km (small network of canals in Line Islands)

Ports and harbors: Banaba, Betio, English Harbor, Kanton

Merchant marine: total:  1 ship (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 1,291
GRT/1,295 DWT

ships by type:  passenger/cargo 1 (2000 est.)

Airports: 21 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  4

1,524 to 2,437 m:  4 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  17

914 to 1,523 m:  12

under 914 m:  5 (2000 est.)



Kiribati    Military

Military branches: no regular military forces; Police Force (carries
out law enforcement functions and paramilitary duties; small police
posts are on all islands)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $NA

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: NA%

Military - note: Kiribati does not have military forces; defense
assistance is provided by Australia and NZ



Kiribati    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

======================================================================

@Korea, North




Korea, North    Introduction

Background: Following World War II, Korea was split into a northern,
communist half and a southern, Western-oriented half. KIM Chong-il
has ruled North Korea since his father and the country's founder,
president KIM Il-song, died in 1994. After decades of mismanagement,
the North relies heavily on international food aid to feed its
population, while continuing to expend resources to maintain an army
of about 1 million. North Korea's long-range missile development and
research into nuclear and chemical weapons are of major concern to
the international community.



Korea, North    Geography

Location: Eastern Asia, northern half of the Korean Peninsula
bordering the Korea Bay and the Sea of Japan, between China and
South Korea

Geographic coordinates: 40 00 N, 127 00 E

Map references: Asia

Area: total:  120,540 sq km

land:  120,410 sq km

water:  130 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly smaller than Mississippi

Land boundaries: total:  1,673 km

border countries:  China 1,416 km, South Korea 238 km, Russia 19 km

Coastline: 2,495 km

Maritime claims: territorial sea:  12 NM

exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

note:  military boundary line 50 NM in the Sea of Japan and the
exclusive economic zone limit in the Yellow Sea where all foreign
vessels and aircraft without permission are banned

Climate: temperate with rainfall concentrated in summer

Terrain: mostly hills and mountains separated by deep, narrow
valleys; coastal plains wide in west, discontinuous in east

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Sea of Japan 0 m

highest point:  Paektu-san 2,744 m

Natural resources: coal, lead, tungsten, zinc, graphite, magnesite,
iron ore, copper, gold, pyrites, salt, fluorspar, hydropower

Land use: arable land:  14%

permanent crops:  2%

permanent pastures:  0%

forests and woodland:  61%

other:  23% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 14,600 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: late spring droughts often followed by severe
flooding; occasional typhoons during the early fall

Environment - current issues: water pollution; inadequate supplies
of potable water; water-borne disease; deforestation; soil erosion
and degradation

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Antarctic Treaty,
Biodiversity, Climate Change, Environmental Modification, Ozone
Layer Protection, Ship Pollution

signed, but not ratified:  Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Law of
the Sea

Geography - note: strategic location bordering China, South Korea,
and Russia; mountainous interior is isolated and sparsely populated



Korea, North    People

Population: 21,968,228 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  25.52% (male 2,873,390; female 2,733,163)

15-64 years:  67.63% (male 7,301,531; female 7,556,554)

65 years and over:  6.85% (male 486,805; female 1,016,785) (2001
est.)

Population growth rate: 1.22% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 19.1 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 6.92 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  0.97 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.48 male(s)/female

total population:  0.94 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 23.55 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  71.02 years

male:  68.04 years

female:  74.15 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 2.26 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: NA%

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: NA

HIV/AIDS - deaths: NA

Nationality: noun:  Korean(s)

adjective:  Korean

Ethnic groups: racially homogeneous; there is a small Chinese
community and a few ethnic Japanese

Religions: traditionally Buddhist and Confucianist, some Christian
and syncretic Chondogyo (Religion of the Heavenly Way)

note:  autonomous religious activities now almost nonexistent;
government-sponsored religious groups exist to provide illusion of
religious freedom

Languages: Korean

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write Korean

total population:  99%

male:  99%

female:  99% (1990 est.)



Korea, North    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Democratic People's Republic
of Korea

conventional short form:  North Korea

local long form:  Choson-minjujuui-inmin-konghwaguk

local short form:  none

note:  the North Koreans generally use the term "Choson" to refer to
their country

abbreviation:  DPRK

Government type: authoritarian socialist; one-man dictatorship

Capital: P'yongyang

Administrative divisions: 9 provinces (do, singular and plural) and
3 special cities* (si, singular and plural); Chagang-do (Chagang
Province), Hamgyong-bukto (North Hamgyong Province), Hamgyong-namdo
(South Hamgyong Province), Hwanghae-bukto (North Hwanghae Province),
Hwanghae-namdo (South Hwanghae Province), Kaesong-si* (Kaesong
City), Kangwon-do (Kangwon Province), Namp'o-si* (Namp'o City),
P'yongan-bukto (North P'yongan Province), P'yongan-namdo (South
P'yongan Province), P'yongyang-si* (P'yongyang City), Yanggang-do
(Yanggang Province)

Independence: 15 August 1945 (from Japan)

National holiday: Founding of the Democratic People's Republic of
Korea (DPRK), 9 September (1948)

Constitution: adopted 1948, completely revised 27 December 1972,
revised again in April 1992 and September 1998

Legal system: based on German civil law system with Japanese
influences and Communist legal theory; no judicial review of
legislative acts; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Suffrage: 17 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  KIM Chong-il (since NA July
1994); note - in September 1998, KIM Chong-il was reelected Chairman
of the National Defense Commission, a position accorded the nation's
"highest administrative authority"; KIM Yong-nam was named President
of the Supreme People's Assembly Presidium and given the
responsibility of representing the state and receiving diplomatic
credentials

head of government:  Premier HONG Song-nam (since 5 September 1998)

cabinet:  Cabinet (Naegak), members, except for the Minister of
People's Armed Forces, are appointed by the Supreme People's Assembly

elections:  premier elected by the Supreme People's Assembly;
election last held NA September 1998 (next to be held NA)

election results:  HONG Song-nam elected premier; percent of Supreme
People's Assembly vote - NA%

Legislative branch: unicameral Supreme People's Assembly or Ch'oego
Inmin Hoeui (687 seats; members elected by popular vote to serve
five-year terms)

elections:  last held 26 July 1998 (next to be held NA 2003)

election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
the KWP approves a single list of candidates who are elected without
opposition; minor parties hold a few seats

Judicial branch: Central Court (judges are elected by the Supreme
People's Assembly)

Political parties and leaders: Chondoist Chongu Party [YU Mi-yong,
chairwoman]; Korean Social Democratic Party [KIM Pyong-sik,
chairman]; major party - Korean Workers' Party or KWP [KIM Chong-il,
General Secretary]

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: ARF (dialogue partner),
ESCAP, FAO, G-77, ICAO, ICRM, IFAD, IFRCS, IHO, IMO, Intelsat
(nonsignatory user), IOC, ISO, ITU, NAM, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO,
UPU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO

Diplomatic representation in the US: none; note - North Korea has a
Permanent Mission to the UN in New York, headed by YI Hyong-chol

Diplomatic representation from the US: none (Swedish Embassy in
P'yongyang represents the US as consular protecting power)

Flag description: three horizontal bands of blue (top), red (triple
width), and blue; the red band is edged in white; on the hoist side
of the red band is a white disk with a red five-pointed star



Korea, North    Economy

Economy - overview: North Korea, one of the world's most centrally
planned and isolated economies, faces desperate economic conditions.
Industrial capital stock is nearly beyond repair as a result of
years of underinvestment and spare parts shortages. The nation faces
its seventh year of food shortages because of weather-related
problems, including major drought in 2000, and chronic shortages of
fertilizer and fuel. Massive international food aid deliveries have
allowed the regime to escape the major consequence of spreading
economic failure, such as mass starvation, but the population
remains vulnerable to prolonged malnutrition and deteriorating
living conditions. Large-scale military spending eats up resources
needed for expanding investment and consumption goods. In 2000, the
regime placed emphasis on expanding foreign trade links, embracing
modern technology, and attracting foreign investment, but in no way
at the expense of relinquishing central control over key national
assets or undergoing market-oriented reforms.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $22 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: -3% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $1,000 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  30%

industry:  42%

services:  28% (1999 est.)

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): NA%

Labor force: 9.6 million

Labor force - by occupation: agricultural 36%, nonagricultural 64%

Unemployment rate: NA%

Budget: revenues:  $NA

expenditures:  $NA, including capital expenditures of $NA

Industries: military products; machine building, electric power,
chemicals; mining (coal, iron ore, magnesite, graphite, copper,
zinc, lead, and precious metals), metallurgy; textiles, food
processing; tourism

Industrial production growth rate: NA%

Electricity - production: 28.6 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  34.62%

hydro:  65.38%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 26.598 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: rice, corn, potatoes, soybeans, pulses;
cattle, pigs, pork, eggs

Exports: $520 million (f.o.b., 1999 est.)

Exports - commodities: minerals, metallurgical products,
manufactures (including armaments); agricultural and fishery products

Exports - partners: Japan 28%, South Korea 21%, China 5%, Germany
4%, Russia 1% (1995)

Imports: $960 million (c.i.f., 1999 est.)

Imports - commodities: petroleum, coking coal, machinery and
equipment; consumer goods, grain

Imports - partners: China 33%, Japan 17%, Russia 5%, South Korea 4%,
Germany 3% (1995)

Debt - external: $12 billion (1996 est.)

Economic aid - recipient: $NA; note - an estimated $200 million to
$300 million in humanitarian aid from US, South Korea, Japan, and EU
in 1997 plus much additional aid from the UN and non-governmental
organizations; substantial continuing humanitarian aid, 1998-2000

Currency: North Korean won (KPW)

Currency code: KPW

Exchange rates: official: North Korean won per US dollar - 2.15 (May
1994), 2.13 (May 1992), 2.14 (September 1991), 2.1 (January 1990),
2.3 (December 1989); market: North Korean won per US dollar - 200

Fiscal year: calendar year



Korea, North    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 1.1 million (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: NA

Telephone system: general assessment:  NA

domestic:  NA

international:  satellite earth stations - 1 Intelsat (Indian Ocean)
and 1 Russian (Indian Ocean region); other international connections
through Moscow and Beijing

Radio broadcast stations: AM 16, FM 14, shortwave 12 (1999)

Radios: 3.36 million (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 38 (1999)

Televisions: 1.2 million (1997)

Internet country code: .kp

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 1 (2000)

Internet users: NA



Korea, North    Transportation

Railways: total:  5,000 km

standard gauge:  4,095 km 1.435-m gauge (3,500 km electrified; 159
km double track)

narrow gauge:  665 km 0.762-m gauge

dual gauge:  240 km 1.435-m and 1.600-m gauges (four rails
interlaced) (1996 est.)

Highways: total:  31,200 km

paved:  1,997 km

unpaved:  29,203 km (1996)

Waterways: 2,253 km

note:  mostly navigable by small craft only

Pipelines: crude oil 37 km; petroleum product 180 km

Ports and harbors: Ch'ongjin, Haeju, Hungnam (Hamhung), Kimch'aek,
Kosong, Najin, Namp'o, Sinuiju, Songnim, Sonbong (formerly Unggi),
Ungsang, Wonsan

Merchant marine: total:  110 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
661,792 GRT/903,367 DWT

ships by type:  bulk 4, cargo 94, combination bulk 1,
multi-functional large-load carrier 1, passenger 2, passenger/cargo
1, petroleum tanker 4, refrigerated cargo 1, short-sea passenger 2
(2000 est.)

Airports: 87 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  39

over 3,047 m:  3

2,438 to 3,047 m:  26

1,524 to 2,437 m:  8

914 to 1,523 m:  1

under 914 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  48

2,438 to 3,047 m:  3

1,524 to 2,437 m:  24

914 to 1,523 m:  13

under 914 m:  8 (2000 est.)



Korea, North    Military

Military branches: Korean People's Army (includes Army, Navy, Air
Force), Civil Security Forces

Military manpower - military age: 18 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  5,943,735 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
3,574,050 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  179,136
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $3.7 billion to $4.9 billion
(FY98 est.)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 25% to 33% (FY98 est.)



Korea, North    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: 33-km section of boundary with China in
the Paektu-san (mountain) area is indefinite; Demarcation Line with
South Korea

======================================================================

@Korea, South




Korea, South    Introduction

Background: After World War II, a republic was set up in the
southern half of the Korean Peninsula while a communist-style
government was installed in the north. The Korean War (1950-53) had
US and other UN forces intervene to defend South Korea from North
Korean attacks supported by the Chinese. An armistice was signed in
1953 splitting the peninsula at the 38th parallel known as the DMZ.
Thereafter, South Korea achieved rapid economic growth, with per
capita income rising to 13 times the level of North Korea. In 1997,
the nation suffered a severe financial crisis from which it
continues to make a solid recovery. South Korea has also maintained
its commitment to democratize its political processes. In June 2000,
a historic first south-north summit took place between the south's
President KIM Dae-jung and the north's leader KIM Chong-il. In
December 2000, President KIM Dae-jung won the Noble Peace Prize for
his lifeling committment to democracy and human rights in Asia. He
is the first Korean to win a Nobel Prize.



Korea, South    Geography

Location: Eastern Asia, southern half of the Korean Peninsula
bordering the Sea of Japan and the Yellow Sea

Geographic coordinates: 37 00 N, 127 30 E

Map references: Asia

Area: total:  98,480 sq km

land:  98,190 sq km

water:  290 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly larger than Indiana

Land boundaries: total:  238 km

border countries:  North Korea 238 km

Coastline: 2,413 km

Maritime claims: contiguous zone:  24 NM

continental shelf:  not specified

exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM; between 3 NM and 12 NM in the Korea Strait

Climate: temperate, with rainfall heavier in summer than winter

Terrain: mostly hills and mountains; wide coastal plains in west and
south

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Sea of Japan 0 m

highest point:  Halla-san 1,950 m

Natural resources: coal, tungsten, graphite, molybdenum, lead,
hydropower potential

Land use: arable land:  19%

permanent crops:  2%

permanent pastures:  1%

forests and woodland:  65%

other:  13% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 13,350 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: occasional typhoons bring high winds and floods;
low-level seismic activity common in southwest

Environment - current issues: air pollution in large cities; acid
rain; water pollution from the discharge of sewage and industrial
effluents; drift net fishing

Environment - international agreements: party to:
Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic-Marine Living Resources,
Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification,
Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes,
Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer
Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94,
Wetlands, Whaling

signed, but not ratified:  Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol



Korea, South    People

Population: 47,904,370 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  21.59% (male 5,475,453; female 4,864,918)

15-64 years:  71.14% (male 17,291,202; female 16,789,380)

65 years and over:  7.27% (male 1,352,312; female 2,131,105) (2001
est.)

Population growth rate: 0.89% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 14.85 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 5.93 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.11 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.13 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1.03 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.63 male(s)/female

total population:  1.01 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 7.71 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  74.65 years

male:  70.97 years

female:  78.74 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 1.72 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 0.01% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 3,800 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: 180 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Korean(s)

adjective:  Korean

Ethnic groups: homogeneous (except for about 20,000 Chinese)

Religions: Christian 49%, Buddhist 47%, Confucianist 3%, Shamanist,
Chondogyo (Religion of the Heavenly Way), and other 1%

Languages: Korean, English widely taught in junior high and high
school

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  98%

male:  99.3%

female:  96.7% (1995 est.)



Korea, South    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Republic of Korea

conventional short form:  South Korea

local long form:  Taehan-min'guk

local short form:  none

note:  the South Koreans generally use the term "Han-guk" to refer
to their country

abbreviation:  ROK

Government type: republic

Capital: Seoul

Administrative divisions: 9 provinces (do, singular and plural) and
7 metropolitan cities* (gwangyoksi, singular and plural); Cheju-do,
Cholla-bukto, Cholla-namdo, Ch'ungch'ong-bukto, Ch'ungch'ong-namdo,
Inch'on-gwangyoksi*, Kangwon-do, Kwangju-gwangyoksi*, Kyonggi-do,
Kyongsang-bukto, Kyongsang-namdo, Pusan-gwangyoksi*,
Soul-t'ukpyolsi*, Taegu-gwangyoksi*, Taejon-gwangyoksi*,
Ulsan-gwangyoksi*

Independence: 15 August 1945 (from Japan)

National holiday: Liberation Day, 15 August (1945)

Constitution: 25 February 1988

Legal system: combines elements of continental European civil law
systems, Anglo-American law, and Chinese classical thought

Suffrage: 20 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  President KIM Dae-jung (since 25
February 1998)

head of government:  Prime Minister YI Han-tong (since 23 May 2000)

cabinet:  State Council appointed by the president on the prime
minister's recommendation

elections:  president elected by popular vote for a single five-year
term; election last held 18 December 1997 (next to be held by 18
December 2002); prime minister appointed by the president; deputy
prime ministers appointed by the president on the prime minister's
recommendation

election results:  KIM Dae-jung elected president; percent of vote -
KIM Dae-jung (NCNP) 40.3% (with ULD partnership), YI Hoe-chang (GNP)
38.7%, YI In-che (NPP) 19.2%

Legislative branch: unicameral National Assembly or Kukhoe (273
seats total - 227 elected by direct, popular vote; members serve
four-year terms)

elections:  last held 13 April 2000 (next to be held NA April 2004)

election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
GNP 133, MDP 115, ULD 17, other 8

Judicial branch: Supreme Court (justices are appointed by the
president with the consent of the National Assembly)

Political parties and leaders: Grand National Party or GNP [YI
Hoe-chang, president]; Millennium Democratic Party or MDP [KIM
Dae-jung, president]; United Liberal Democrats or ULD [KIM
Chong-p'il, honorary chairman, KIM Chong-ho, acting president]

note:  on 20 January 2000, the National Congress for New Politics or
NCNP was renamed the Millennium Democratic Party or MDP

Political pressure groups and leaders: Federation of Korean
Industries; Federation of Korean Trade Unions; Korean Confederation
of Trade Unions; Korean National Council of Churches; Korean Traders
Association; Korean Veterans' Association; National Council of Labor
Unions; National Democratic Alliance of Korea; National Federation
of Farmers' Associations; National Federation of Student Associations

International organization participation: AfDB, APEC, ARF (dialogue
partner), AsDB, ASEAN (dialogue partner), Australia Group, BIS, CCC,
CP, EBRD, ESCAP, FAO, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA,
IEA (observer), IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat,
Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO, ITU, MINURSO, NAM (guest), NEA,
NSG, OAS (observer), OECD, OPCW, OSCE (partner), PCA, UN, UNCTAD,
UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNMOGIP, UNOMIG, UNTAET, UNU, UPU, WHO, WIPO,
WMO, WToO, WTrO, ZC

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
YANG Song-chol

chancery:  2450 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone:  [1] (202) 939-5600

FAX:  [1] (202) 387-0205

consulate(s) general:  Anchorage, Atlanta, Boston, Chicago,
Honolulu, Houston, Los Angeles, Miami, New York, San Francisco, and
Seattle

consulate(s):  Hagatna (Guam)

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
(vacant)

embassy:  82 Sejong-ro, Chongro-ku, Seoul 110-710

mailing address:  American Embassy, Unit 15550, APO AP 96205-0001

telephone:  [82] (2) 397-4114

FAX:  [82] (2) 738-8845

Flag description: white with a red (top) and blue yin-yang symbol in
the center; there is a different black trigram from the ancient I
Ching (Book of Changes) in each corner of the white field



Korea, South    Economy

Economy - overview: As one of the Four Dragons of East Asia, South
Korea has achieved an incredible record of growth. Three decades ago
GDP per capita was comparable with levels in the poorer countries of
Africa and Asia. Today its GDP per capita is seven times India's, 16
times North Korea's, and comparable to the lesser economies of the
European Union. This success through the late 1980s was achieved by
a system of close government/business ties, including directed
credit, import restrictions, sponsorship of specific industries, and
a strong labor effort. The government promoted the import of raw
materials and technology at the expense of consumer goods and
encouraged savings and investment over consumption. The Asian
financial crisis of 1997-99 exposed certain longstanding weaknesses
in South Korea's development model, including high debt/equity
ratios, massive foreign borrowing, and an undisciplined financial
sector. By 1999 GDP growth had recovered, reversing the substantial
decline of 1998. Seoul has pressed the country's largest business
groups to restructure and to strengthen their financial base. Growth
in 2001 likely will be a more sustainable rate of 5%.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $764.6 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 9% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $16,100 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  5.6%

industry:  41.4%

services:  53% (1999 est.)

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:
2.9%

highest 10%:  24.3% (1993)

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 2.3% (2000)

Labor force: 22 million (2000)

Labor force - by occupation: services 68%, industry 20%, agriculture
12% (1999)

Unemployment rate: 4.1% (2000 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $81.8 billion

expenditures:  $94.9 billion, including capital expenditures of $6.1
billion (1999)

Industries: electronics, automobile production, chemicals,
shipbuilding, steel, textiles, clothing, footwear, food processing

Industrial production growth rate: 17% (2000)

Electricity - production: 250.287 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  59.22%

hydro:  1.64%

nuclear:  39.12%

other:  0.02% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 232.767 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: rice, root crops, barley, vegetables, fruit;
cattle, pigs, chickens, milk, eggs; fish

Exports: $172.6 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Exports - commodities: electronic products, machinery and equipment,
motor vehicles, steel, ships; textiles, clothing, footwear; fish

Exports - partners: US 20.5%, Japan 11%, China 9.5%, Hong Kong 6.3%,
Taiwan 4.4% (1999)

Imports: $160.5 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Imports - commodities: machinery, electronics and electronic
equipment, oil, steel, transport equipment, textiles, organic
chemicals, grains

Imports - partners: US 20.8%, Japan 20.2%, China 7.4%, Saudi Arabia
4.7%, Australia 3.9% (1999)

Debt - external: $137 billion (November 2000)

Economic aid - recipient: $NA

Currency: South Korean won (KRW)

Currency code: KRW

Exchange rates: South Korean won per US dollar - 1,271.89 (January
2001), 1,130.96 (2000), 1,188.82 (1999), 1,401.44 (1998), 951.29
(1997), 804.45 (1996)

Fiscal year: calendar year



Korea, South    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 24 million (1999)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 27 million (June 2000)

Telephone system: general assessment:  excellent domestic and
international services

domestic:  NA

international:  fiber-optic submarine cable to China; the
Russia-Korea-Japan submarine cable; satellite earth stations - 3
Intelsat (2 Pacific Ocean and 1 Indian Ocean) and 1 Inmarsat
(Pacific Ocean region)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 106, FM 97, shortwave 6 (1999)

Radios: 47.5 million (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 121 (plus 850 repeater stations and
the eight-channel American Forces Korea Network) (1999)

Televisions: 15.9 million (1997)

Internet country code: .kr

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 11 (2000)

Internet users: 15.3 million (2000)



Korea, South    Transportation

Railways: total:  6,240 km

standard gauge:  6,240 km 1.435-m gauge (525 km electrified) (1998
est.)

Highways: total:  87,534 km

paved:  65,388 km (including 1,996 km of expressways)

unpaved:  22,146 km (1999)

Waterways: 1,609 km

note:  restricted to small native craft

Pipelines: petroleum products 455 km; note - additionally, there is
a parallel petroleum, oils, and lubricants (POL) pipeline being
completed

Ports and harbors: Chinhae, Inch'on, Kunsan, Masan, Mokp'o, P'ohang,
Pusan, Tonghae-hang, Ulsan, Yosu

Merchant marine: total:  496 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
5,421,993 GRT/8,757,034 DWT

ships by type:  bulk 105, cargo 168, chemical tanker 38, combination
bulk 5, container 49, liquefied gas 16, multi-functional large-load
carrier 1, passenger 3, petroleum tanker 70, refrigerated cargo 27,
roll on/roll off 4, short-sea passenger 1, specialized tanker 4,
vehicle carrier 5 (2000 est.)

Airports: 102 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  68

over 3,047 m:  2

2,438 to 3,047 m:  18

1,524 to 2,437 m:  16

914 to 1,523 m:  11

under 914 m:  21 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  34

914 to 1,523 m:  2

under 914 m:  32 (2000 est.)

Heliports: 203 (2000 est.)



Korea, South    Military

Military branches: Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, National
Maritime Police (Coast Guard)

Military manpower - military age: 18 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  14,148,552 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
8,979,778 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  394,397
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $12 billion (2000)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 3.2% (FY98/99)



Korea, South    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: Demarcation Line with North Korea;
Liancourt Rocks (Takeshima/Tokdo) disputed with Japan

======================================================================

@Kuwait




Kuwait    Introduction

Background: Kuwait was attacked and overrun by Iraq on 2 August
1990. Following several weeks of aerial bombardment, a US-led UN
coalition began a ground assault on 23 February 1991 that completely
liberated Kuwait in four days. Kuwait has spent more than $5 billion
to repair oil infrastructure damaged during 1990-91.



Kuwait    Geography

Location: Middle East, bordering the Persian Gulf, between Iraq and
Saudi Arabia

Geographic coordinates: 29 30 N, 45 45 E

Map references: Middle East

Area: total:  17,820 sq km

land:  17,820 sq km

water:  0 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly smaller than New Jersey

Land boundaries: total:  464 km

border countries:  Iraq 242 km, Saudi Arabia 222 km

Coastline: 499 km

Maritime claims: territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: dry desert; intensely hot summers; short, cool winters

Terrain: flat to slightly undulating desert plain

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Persian Gulf 0 m

highest point:  unnamed location 306 m

Natural resources: petroleum, fish, shrimp, natural gas

Land use: arable land:  0%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  8%

forests and woodland:  0%

other:  92% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 20 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: sudden cloudbursts are common from October to
April; they bring inordinate amounts of rain which can damage roads
and houses; sandstorms and dust storms occur throughout the year,
but are most common between March and August

Environment - current issues: limited natural fresh water resources;
some of world's largest and most sophisticated desalination
facilities provide much of the water; air and water pollution;
desertification

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Climate Change,
Desertification, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law
of the Sea, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection

signed, but not ratified:  Biodiversity, Endangered Species, Marine
Dumping

Geography - note: strategic location at head of Persian Gulf



Kuwait    People

Population: 2,041,961

note:  includes 1,159,913 non-nationals (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  28.76% (male 299,080; female 288,125)

15-64 years:  68.82% (male 897,839; female 507,527)

65 years and over:  2.42% (male 31,843; female 17,547) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 3.38% (2001 est.)

note:  this rate reflects a return to pre-Gulf crisis immigration of
expatriates

Birth rate: 21.91 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 2.45 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 14.31 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.04 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1.77 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  1.81 male(s)/female

total population:  1.51 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 11.18 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  76.27 years

male:  75.42 years

female:  77.15 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 3.2 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 0.12% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: NA

HIV/AIDS - deaths: NA

Nationality: noun:  Kuwaiti(s)

adjective:  Kuwaiti

Ethnic groups: Kuwaiti 45%, other Arab 35%, South Asian 9%, Iranian
4%, other 7%

Religions: Muslim 85% (Sunni 45%, Shi'a 40%), Christian, Hindu,
Parsi, and other 15%

Languages: Arabic (official), English widely spoken

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  78.6%

male:  82.2%

female:  74.9% (1995 est.)



Kuwait    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  State of Kuwait

conventional short form:  Kuwait

local long form:  Dawlat al Kuwayt

local short form:  Al Kuwayt

Government type: nominal constitutional monarchy

Capital: Kuwait

Administrative divisions: 5 governorates (muhafazat, singular -
muhafazah); Al Ahmadi, Al Farwaniyah, Al 'Asimah, Al Jahra', Hawalli

Independence: 19 June 1961 (from UK)

National holiday: National Day, 25 February (1950)

Constitution: approved and promulgated 11 November 1962

Legal system: civil law system with Islamic law significant in
personal matters; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Suffrage: adult males who have been naturalized for 30 years or more
or have resided in Kuwait since before 1920 and their male
descendants at age 21

note:  only 10% of all citizens are eligible to vote; in 1996,
naturalized citizens who do not meet the pre-1920 qualification but
have been naturalized for 30 years were eligible to vote for the
first time

Executive branch: chief of state:  Amir JABIR al-Ahmad al-Jabir Al
Sabah (since 31 December 1977)

head of government:  Prime Minister and Crown Prince SAAD
al-Abdallah al-Salim Al Sabah (since 8 February 1978); First Deputy
Prime Minister SABAH al-Ahmad al-Jabir Al Sabah (since 17 October
1992); Deputy Prime Ministers JABIR MUBARAK al-Hamud Al Sabah (since
NA) and MUHAMMAD KHALID al-Hamed Al Sabah (since NA)

cabinet:  Council of Ministers appointed by the prime minister and
approved by the monarch

elections:  none; the monarch is hereditary; prime minister and
deputy prime ministers appointed by the monarch

Legislative branch: unicameral National Assembly or Majlis al-Umma
(50 seats; members elected by popular vote to serve four-year terms)

elections:  last held 3 July 1999 (next to be held NA 2003)

election results:  percent of vote - NA%; seats - independents 50;
note - all cabinet ministers are also ex officio members of the
National Assembly

Judicial branch: High Court of Appeal

Political parties and leaders: none; formation of political parties
is illegal

Political pressure groups and leaders: several political groups act
as de facto parties: Bedouins, merchants, Sunni and Shi'a activists,
and secular leftists and nationalists

International organization participation: ABEDA, AfDB, AFESD, AL,
AMF, BDEAC, CAEU, CCC, ESCWA, FAO, G-77, GCC, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC,
ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat,
Interpol, IOC, ISO, ITU, NAM, OAPEC, OIC, OPCW, OPEC, UN, UNCTAD,
UNESCO, UNIDO, UNITAR, UPU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
(vacant)

chancery:  2940 Tilden Street NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone:  [1] (202) 966-0702

FAX:  [1] (202) 966-0517

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
James A. LAROCCO

embassy:  Bayan, near the Bayan palace, Kuwait City

mailing address:  P. O. Box 77 Safat, 13001 Safat, Kuwait Unit
69000, APO AE 09880-9000

telephone:  [965] 539-5307

FAX:  [965] 538-0282

Flag description: three equal horizontal bands of green (top),
white, and red with a black trapezoid based on the hoist side



Kuwait    Economy

Economy - overview: Kuwait is a small, relatively open economy with
proved crude oil reserves of about 94 billion barrels - 10% of world
reserves. Petroleum accounts for nearly half of GDP, 90% of export
revenues, and 75% of government income. Kuwait's climate limits
agricultural development. Consequently, with the exception of fish,
it depends almost wholly on food imports. About 75% of potable water
must be distilled or imported. Higher oil prices put the FY99/00
budget into a $2 billion surplus. The FY00/01 budget covers only
nine months because of a change in the fiscal year. The budget for
FY01/02, which begins 1 April, contains higher expenditures for
salaries, construction, and other general categories. Kuwait
continues its discussions with foreign oil companies to develop
fields in the northern part of the country.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $29.3 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 6% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $15,000 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  0%

industry:  55%

services:  45% (1996)

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 3% (2000)

Labor force: 1.3 million (1998 est.)

note:  68% of the population in the 15-64 age group is non-national
(July 1998 est.)

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture NA%, industry NA%, services
NA%

Unemployment rate: 1.8% (official 1996 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $11.5 billion

expenditures:  $17.2 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
(FY01/02)

Industries: petroleum, petrochemicals, desalination, food
processing, construction materials

Industrial production growth rate: 1% (1997 est.)

Electricity - production: 31.567 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  100%

hydro:  0%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 29.357 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: practically no crops; fish

Exports: $23.2 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Exports - commodities: oil and refined products, fertilizers

Exports - partners: Japan 23%, US 12%, Singapore 8%, Netherlands 7%
(1999)

Imports: $7.6 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Imports - commodities: food, construction materials, vehicles and
parts, clothing

Imports - partners: US 15%, Japan 10%, UK 7%, Germany 7% (1999)

Debt - external: $6.9 billion (2000 est.)

Economic aid - recipient: $27.6 million (1995)

Currency: Kuwaiti dinar (KWD)

Currency code: KWD

Exchange rates: Kuwaiti dinars per US dollar - 0.3057 (January
2001), 0.3067 (2000), 0.3044 (1999), 0.3047 (1998), 0.3033 (1997),
0.2994 (1996)

Fiscal year: 1 April - 31 March



Kuwait    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 412,000 (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 210,000 (1997)

Telephone system: general assessment:  the quality of service is
excellent

domestic:  new telephone exchanges provide a large capacity for new
subscribers; trunk traffic is carried by microwave radio relay,
coaxial cable, open wire, and fiber-optic cable; a cellular
telephone system operates throughout Kuwait, and the country is well
supplied with pay telephones

international:  coaxial cable and microwave radio relay to Saudi
Arabia; linked to Bahrain, Qatar, UAE via the Fiber-Optic Gulf (FOG)
cable; satellite earth stations - 3 Intelsat (1 Atlantic Ocean, 2
Indian Ocean), 1 Inmarsat (Atlantic Ocean), and 2 Arabsat

Radio broadcast stations: AM 6, FM 11, shortwave 1 (1998)

Radios: 1.175 million (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 13 (plus several satellite channels)
(1997)

Televisions: 875,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .kw

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 3 (2000)

Internet users: 100,000 (2000)



Kuwait    Transportation

Railways: 0 km

Highways: total:  4,450 km

paved:  3,590 km

unpaved:  860 km (1999 est.)

Waterways: none

Pipelines: crude oil 877 km; petroleum products 40 km; natural gas
165 km

Ports and harbors: Ash Shu'aybah, Ash Shuwaykh, Kuwait, Mina' 'Abd
Allah, Mina' al Ahmadi, Mina' Su'ud

Merchant marine: total:  45 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
2,461,072 GRT/3,966,645 DWT

ships by type:  bulk 1, cargo 6, container 6, liquefied gas 7,
livestock carrier 5, petroleum tanker 20 (2000 est.)

Airports: 8 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  4

over 3,047 m:  2

2,438 to 3,047 m:  2 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  4

1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

under 914 m:  3 (2000 est.)

Heliports: 3 (2000 est.)



Kuwait    Military

Military branches: Army, Navy, Air Force, National Police Force,
National Guard, Coast Guard

Military manpower - military age: 18 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  780,559 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
466,521 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  18,309
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $1.9 billion (FY00/01)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 8.7% (FY00/01)



Kuwait    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: in November 1994, Iraq formally accepted
the UN-demarcated border with Kuwait which had been spelled out in
Security Council Resolutions 687 (1991), 773 (1993), and 883 (1993);
this formally ends earlier claims to Kuwait and to Bubiyan and
Warbah islands

======================================================================

@Kyrgyzstan




Kyrgyzstan    Introduction

Background: A Central Asian country of incredible natural beauty and
proud nomadic traditions, Kyrgyzstan was annexed by Russia in 1864;
it achieved independence from the Soviet Union in 1991. Current
concerns include: privatization of state-owned enterprises,
expansion of democracy and political freedoms, inter-ethnic
relations, and terrorism.



Kyrgyzstan    Geography

Location: Central Asia, west of China

Geographic coordinates: 41 00 N, 75 00 E

Map references: Commonwealth of Independent States

Area: total:  198,500 sq km

land:  191,300 sq km

water:  7,200 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly smaller than South Dakota

Land boundaries: total:  3,878 km

border countries:  China 858 km, Kazakhstan 1,051 km, Tajikistan 870
km, Uzbekistan 1,099 km

Coastline: 0 km (landlocked)

Maritime claims: none (landlocked)

Climate: dry continental to polar in high Tien Shan; subtropical in
southwest (Fergana Valley); temperate in northern foothill zone

Terrain: peaks of Tien Shan and associated valleys and basins
encompass entire nation

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Kara-Darya 132 m

highest point:  Jengish Chokusu (Pik Pobedy) 7,439 m

Natural resources: abundant hydropower; significant deposits of gold
and rare earth metals; locally exploitable coal, oil, and natural
gas; other deposits of nepheline, mercury, bismuth, lead, and zinc

Land use: arable land:  7%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  44%

forests and woodland:  4%

other:  45% (1993 est.)

note:  Kyrgyzstan has the world's largest natural growth walnut
forest

Irrigated land: 9,000 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: NA

Environment - current issues: water pollution; many people get their
water directly from contaminated streams and wells; as a result,
water-borne diseases are prevalent; increasing soil salinity from
faulty irrigation practices

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Air Pollution,
Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification, Hazardous Wastes,
Ozone Layer Protection

signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Geography - note: landlocked



Kyrgyzstan    People

Population: 4,753,003 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  35.03% (male 841,029; female 823,723)

15-64 years:  58.83% (male 1,369,842; female 1,426,522)

65 years and over:  6.14% (male 110,340; female 181,547) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 1.44% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 26.18 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 9.13 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: -2.66 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.02 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  0.96 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.61 male(s)/female

total population:  0.95 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 76.5 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  63.46 years

male:  59.2 years

female:  67.94 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 3.19 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: less than 0.01% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: less than 100 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: less than 100 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Kyrgyzstani(s)

adjective:  Kyrgyzstani

Ethnic groups: Kirghiz 52.4%, Russian 18%, Uzbek 12.9%, Ukrainian
2.5%, German 2.4%, other 11.8%

Religions: Muslim 75%, Russian Orthodox 20%, other 5%

Languages: Kirghiz (Kyrgyz) - official language, Russian - official
language

note:  in May 2000, the Kyrgyzstani legislature made Russian an
official language, equal in status to Kirghiz

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  97%

male:  99%

female:  96% (1989 est.)



Kyrgyzstan    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Kyrgyz Republic

conventional short form:  Kyrgyzstan

local long form:  Kyrgyz Respublikasy

local short form:  none

former:  Kirghiz Soviet Socialist Republic

Government type: republic

Capital: Bishkek

Administrative divisions: 7 oblastlar (singular - oblast) and 1
city* (singular - shaar); Batken Oblasty, Bishkek Shaary*, Chuy
Oblasty (Bishkek), Jalal-Abad Oblasty, Naryn Oblasty, Osh Oblasty,
Talas Oblasty, Ysyk-Kol Oblasty (Karakol)

note:  administrative divisions have the same names as their
administrative centers (exceptions have the administrative center
name following in parentheses)

Independence: 31 August 1991 (from Soviet Union)

National holiday: Independence Day, 31 August (1991)

Constitution: adopted 5 May 1993; note - amendment proposed by
President AKAYEV and passed in a national referendum on 10 February
1996 significantly expands the powers of the president at the
expense of the legislature

Legal system: based on civil law system

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Askar AKAYEV (since 28
October 1990)

head of government:  Prime Minister Kurmanbek BAKIYEV (since 22
December 2000)

cabinet:  Cabinet of Ministers appointed by the president on the
recommendation of the prime minister

elections:  president reelected by popular vote for a five-year
term; elections last held 29 October 2000 (next to be held November
or December 2005); prime minister appointed by the president

election results:  Askar AKAYEV reelected president; percent of vote
- Askar AKAYEV 74%, Omurbek TEKEBAYEV 14%, other candidates 12%;
note - election marred by serious irregularities

Legislative branch: bicameral Supreme Council or Zhogorku Kenesh
consists of the Assembly of People's Representatives (70 seats;
members are elected by popular vote to serve five-year terms) and
the Legislative Assembly (35 seats; members are elected by popular
vote to serve five-year terms)

elections:  Assembly of People's Representatives - last held 20
February and 12 March 2000 (next to be held NA February 2005);
Legislative Assembly - last held 20 February and 12 March 2000 (next
to be held NA February 2005)

election results:  Assembly of People's Representatives - percent of
vote by party - NA%; percent of vote by party - NA; and Legislative
Assembly - percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party - NA; note
- total seats by party in the Supreme Council were as follows: Union
of Democratic Forces 12, Communists 6, My Country Party of Action 4,
independents 73, other 10

note:  the legislature became bicameral for the 5 February 1995
elections; the 2000 election results include both the Assembly of
People's Representatives and the Legislative Assembly

Judicial branch: Supreme Court (judges are appointed for 10-year
terms by the Supreme Council on the recommendation of the
president); Constitutional Court; Higher Court of Arbitration

Political parties and leaders: Agrarian Labor Party of Kyrgyzstan
[Uson S. SYDYKOV]; Agrarian Party of Kyrgyzstan [Arkin ALIYEV];
Ata-Meken Socialist Party or Fatherland [Onurbek TEKEBAYEV]; Banner
National Revival Party or ASABA [Chaprashty BAZARBAY]; Democratic
Movement of Kyrgyzstan or DDK [Jypar JEKSHEYEV]; Democratic Women's
Party of Kyrgyzstan [T. A. SHAILIYEVA]; Dignity Party [Feliks
KULOV]; Erkin Kyrgyzstan Progressive and Democratic Party [Tursunbay
Bakir UULU]; Justice Party [Chingiz AYTMATOV]; Movement for the
People's Salvation [Jumgalbek AMAMBAYEV]; Mutual Help Movement or
Ashar [Jumagazy USUPOV]; My Country of Action [Almazbek ISMANKULOV];
National Unity Democratic Movement or DDNE [Yury RAZGULYAYEV]; Party
of Communists of Kyrgyzstan or KCP [Absamat M. MASALIYEV]; Party of
the Veterans of the War in Afghanistan [leader NA]; Peasant Party
[leader NA]; People's Party [Melis ESHIMKANOV]; Poor and Unprotected
People's Party [Daniyar USENOV]; Republican Popular Party of
Kyrgyzstan [J. SHARSHENALIYEV]; Social Democratic Party or PSD [J.
IBRAMOV]; Union of Democratic Forces (composed of Social Democratic
Party of Kyrgyzstan or PSD [J. IBRAMOV], Economic Revival Party, and
Birimdik Party

Political pressure groups and leaders: Council of Free Trade Unions;
Kyrgyz Committee on Human Rights [Ramazan DYRYIDAYEV]; National
Unity Democratic Movement; Union of Entrepreneurs

International organization participation: AsDB, CCC, CIS, EAPC,
EBRD, ECE, ECO, ESCAP, FAO, IBRD, ICAO, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC,
IFRCS, ILO, IMF, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO (correspondent),
ITU, NAM (observer), OIC, OPCW, OSCE, PFP, UN, UNAMSIL, UNCTAD,
UNESCO, UNIDO, UNMIK, UPU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Bakyt ABDRISAYEV

chancery:  1732 Wisconsin Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20007

telephone:  [1] (202) 338-5141

FAX:  [1] (202) 338-5139

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
John M. O'KEEFE

embassy:  171 Prospect Mira, 720016 Bishkek

mailing address:  use embassy street address

telephone:  [996] (312) 551-241, (517) 777-217

FAX:  [996] (312) 551-264

Flag description: red field with a yellow sun in the center having
40 rays representing the 40 Kirghiz tribes; on the obverse side the
rays run counterclockwise, on the reverse, clockwise; in the center
of the sun is a red ring crossed by two sets of three lines, a
stylized representation of the roof of the traditional Kirghiz yurt



Kyrgyzstan    Economy

Economy - overview: Kyrgyzstan is a small, poor, mountainous country
with a predominantly agricultural economy. Cotton, wool, and meat
are the main agricultural products and exports. Industrial exports
include gold, mercury, uranium, and electricity. Kyrgyzstan has been
one of the most progressive countries of the former Soviet Union in
carrying out market reforms. Following a successful stabilization
program, which lowered inflation from 88% in 1994 to 15% for 1997,
attention is turning toward stimulating growth. Much of the
government's stock in enterprises has been sold. Drops in production
had been severe since the breakup of the Soviet Union in December
1991, but by mid-1995 production began to recover and exports began
to increase. Pensioners, unemployed workers, and government workers
with salary arrears continue to suffer. Foreign assistance played a
substantial role in the country's economic turnaround in 1996-97.
Growth was held down to 2.1% in 1998 largely because of the
spillover from Russia's economic difficulties, but moved ahead to
3.6% in 1999 and an estimated 5.7% in 2000. The government has
adopted a series of measures to combat such persistent problems as
excessive external debt, inflation, and inadequate revenue
collection.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $12.6 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 5.7% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $2,700 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  39%

industry:  22%

services:  39% (1999 est.)

Population below poverty line: 51% (1997 est.)

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:
2.7%

highest 10%:  31.7% (1997)

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 18.7% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 1.7 million

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture 55%, industry 15%, services
30% (1999 est.)

Unemployment rate: 6% (1998 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $207.4 million

expenditures:  $238.7 million, including capital expenditures of $NA
(1999 est.)

Industries: small machinery, textiles, food processing, cement,
shoes, sawn logs, refrigerators, furniture, electric motors, gold,
rare earth metals

Industrial production growth rate: 7% (2000 est.)



Electricity - production: 12.981 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  6.67%

hydro:  93.33%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 10.236 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 2.02 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 184 million kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: tobacco, cotton, potatoes, vegetables,
grapes, fruits and berries; sheep, goats, cattle, wool

Exports: $482 million (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Exports - commodities: cotton, wool, meat, tobacco; gold, mercury,
uranium, hydropower; machinery; shoes

Exports - partners: Germany 33%, Russia 16%, Kazakhstan 10%,
Uzbekistan 10%, China 6% (1999)

Imports: $579 million (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Imports - commodities: oil and gas, machinery and equipment,
foodstuffs

Imports - partners: Russia 18%, Kazakhstan 12%, US 9%, Germany 8%,
Uzbekistan 8%, China (1999)

Debt - external: $1.4 billion (2000 est.)

Economic aid - recipient: $329.4 million (1995)

Currency: Kyrgyzstani som (KGS)

Currency code: KGS

Exchange rates: soms per US dollar - 48.701 (January 2001), 47.704
(2000), 39.008 (1999), 20.838 (1998), 17.362 (1997), 12.810 (1996)

Fiscal year: calendar year



Kyrgyzstan    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 351,000 (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: NA

Telephone system: general assessment:  poorly developed; about
100,000 unsatisfied applications for household telephones

domestic:  principally microwave radio relay; one cellular provider,
probably limited to Bishkek region

international:  connections with other CIS countries by landline or
microwave radio relay and with other countries by leased connections
with Moscow international gateway switch and by satellite; satellite
earth stations - 1 Intersputnik and 1 Intelsat; connected
internationally by the Trans-Asia-Europe (TAE) fiber-optic line

Radio broadcast stations: AM 12 (plus 10 repeater stations), FM 14,
shortwave 2 (1998)

Radios: 520,000 (1997)

Television broadcast stations: NA (repeater stations throughout the
country relay programs from Russia, Uzbekistan, Kazakhstan, and
Turkey) (1997)

Televisions: 210,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .kg

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): NA

Internet users: 10,000 (2000)



Kyrgyzstan    Transportation

Railways: total:  370 km in common carrier service; does not include
industrial lines

broad gauge:  370 km 1.520-m gauge (1990)

Highways: total:  18,500 km (including 140 km of expressways)

paved:  16,854 km (these roads are said to be hard-surfaced, and
include, in addition to conventionally paved roads, some that are
surfaced with gravel or other coarse aggregate, making them
trafficable in all weather)

unpaved:  1,646 km (these roads are made of unstabilized earth and
are difficult to negotiate in wet weather) (1996)

Waterways: 600 km (1990)

Pipelines: natural gas 200 km

Ports and harbors: Balykchy (Ysyk-Kol or Rybach'ye)

Airports: 50 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  4

over 3,047 m:  1

2,438 to 3,047 m:  1

1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

914 to 1,523 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  46

2,438 to 3,047 m:  3

1,524 to 2,437 m:  5

914 to 1,523 m:  6

under 914 m:  32 (2000 est.)



Kyrgyzstan    Military

Military branches: Army, Air and Air Defense, Security Forces,
Border Troops

Military manpower - military age: 18 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  1,203,001 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
975,744 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  50,590
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $12 million (FY99)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 1% (FY99)



Kyrgyzstan    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: territorial dispute with Tajikistan on
southwestern boundary in Isfara Valley area; periodic target of
Islamic insurgents from Uzbekistan, Tajikistan, and Afghanistan

Illicit drugs: limited illicit cultivator of cannabis and opium
poppy, mostly for CIS consumption; limited government eradication
program; increasingly used as transshipment point for illicit drugs
to Russia and Western Europe from Southwest Asia

======================================================================

@Laos




Laos    Introduction

Background: In 1975 the communist Pathet Lao took control of the
government, ending a six-century-old monarchy. Initial closer ties
to Vietnam and socialization were replaced with a gradual return to
private enterprise, an easing of foreign investment laws, and the
admission into ASEAN in 1997.



Laos    Geography

Location: Southeastern Asia, northeast of Thailand, west of Vietnam

Geographic coordinates: 18 00 N, 105 00 E

Map references: Southeast Asia

Area: total:  236,800 sq km

land:  230,800 sq km

water:  6,000 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly larger than Utah

Land boundaries: total:  5,083 km

border countries:  Burma 235 km, Cambodia 541 km, China 423 km,
Thailand 1,754 km, Vietnam 2,130 km

Coastline: 0 km (landlocked)

Maritime claims: none (landlocked)

Climate: tropical monsoon; rainy season (May to November); dry
season (December to April)

Terrain: mostly rugged mountains; some plains and plateaus

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Mekong River 70 m

highest point:  Phou Bia 2,817 m

Natural resources: timber, hydropower, gypsum, tin, gold, gemstones

Land use: arable land:  3%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  3%

forests and woodland:  54%

other:  40% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 1,250 sq km (1993 est.)

note:  rainy season irrigation - 2,169 sq km; dry season irrigation
- 750 sq km (1998 est.)

Natural hazards: floods, droughts, and blight

Environment - current issues: unexploded ordnance; deforestation;
soil erosion; a majority of the population does not have access to
potable water

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Desertification, Environmental Modification, Law of
the Sea, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection

signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Geography - note: landlocked



Laos    People

Population: 5,635,967 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  42.75% (male 1,212,577; female 1,196,795)

15-64 years:  53.94% (male 1,494,927; female 1,544,851)

65 years and over:  3.31% (male 85,632; female 101,185) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 2.48% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 37.84 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 13.02 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.03 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.01 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  0.97 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.85 male(s)/female

total population:  0.98 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 92.89 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  53.48 years

male:  51.58 years

female:  55.44 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 5.12 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 0.05% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 1,400 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: 130 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Lao(s) or Laotian(s)

adjective:  Lao or Laotian

Ethnic groups: Lao Loum (lowland) 68%, Lao Theung (upland) 22%, Lao
Soung (highland) including the Hmong ("Meo") and the Yao (Mien) 9%,
ethnic Vietnamese/Chinese 1%

Religions: Buddhist 60%, animist and other 40%

Languages: Lao (official), French, English, and various ethnic
languages

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  57%

male:  70%

female:  44% (1999 est.)



Laos    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Lao People's Democratic
Republic

conventional short form:  Laos

local long form:  Sathalanalat Paxathipatai Paxaxon Lao

local short form:  none

Government type: Communist state

Capital: Vientiane

Administrative divisions: 16 provinces (khoueng, singular and
plural), 1 municipality* (kampheng nakhon, singular and plural), and
1 special zone** (khetphiset, singular and plural); Attapu, Bokeo,
Bolikhamxai, Champasak, Houaphan, Khammouan, Louangnamtha,
Louangphabang, Oudomxai, Phongsali, Salavan, Savannakhet,
Viangchan*, Viangchan, Xaignabouli, Xaisomboun**, Xekong, Xiangkhoang

Independence: 19 July 1949 (from France)

National holiday: Republic Day, 2 December (1975)

Constitution: promulgated 14 August 1991

Legal system: based on traditional customs, French legal norms and
procedures, and Socialist practice

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Gen. KHAMTAI Siphandon
(since 26 February 1998) and Vice President Lt. Gen. CHOUMMALI
Saignason (since NA March 2001)

head of government:  Prime Minister BOUNGNANG Volachit (since NA
March 2001); Deputy Prime Ministers THONGLOUN Sisolit (since NA
March 2001), SOMSAVAT Lengsavat (since 26 February 1998)

cabinet:  Council of Ministers appointed by the president, approved
by the National Assembly

elections:  president elected by the National Assembly for a
five-year term; election last held 21 December 1997 (next to be held
NA 2002); prime minister appointed by the president with the
approval of the National Assembly for a five-year term

election results:  KHAMTAI Siphandon elected president; percent of
National Assembly vote - NA%

Legislative branch: unicameral National Assembly (99 seats; members
elected by popular vote to serve five-year terms; note - by
presidential decree, on 27 October 1997, the number of seats
increased from 85 to 99)

elections:  last held 21 December 1997 (next to be held NA 2002)

election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
LPRP or LPRP-approved (independent, non-party members) 99

Judicial branch: People's Supreme Court (the president of the
People's Supreme Court is elected by the National Assembly on the
recommendation of the National Assembly Standing Committee; the vice
president of the People's Supreme Court and the judges are appointed
by the National Assembly Standing Committee)

Political parties and leaders: Lao People's Revolutionary Party or
LPRP [KHAMTAI Siphandon, party president]; other parties proscribed

Political pressure groups and leaders: noncommunist political groups
proscribed; most opposition leaders fled the country in 1975

International organization participation: ACCT, ARF, AsDB, ASEAN,
CP, ESCAP, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO,
IMF, Intelsat (nonsignatory user), Interpol, IOC, ITU, NAM, OPCW,
PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO,
WTrO (observer)

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
VANG Rattanavong

chancery:  2222 S Street NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone:  [1] (202) 332-6416

FAX:  [1] (202) 332-4923

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
(vacant); Charge d'Affairs Karen Brevard STEWART

embassy:  19 Rue Bartholonie, B. P. 114, Vientiane

mailing address:  American Embassy, Box V, APO AP 96546

telephone:  [856] (21) 212581, 212582, 212585

FAX:  [856] (21) 212584

Flag description: three horizontal bands of red (top), blue (double
width), and red with a large white disk centered in the blue band



Laos    Economy

Economy - overview: The government of Laos - one of the few
remaining official communist states - began decentralizing control
and encouraging private enterprise in 1986. The results, starting
from an extremely low base, were striking - growth averaged 7%
during 1988-97. Reform efforts subsequently slowed, and GDP growth
dropped an average of 3 percentage points. Because Laos depends
heavily on its trade with Thailand, it was damaged by the regional
financial crisis beginning in 1997. Government mismanagement
deepened the crisis, and from June 1997 to June 1999 the Lao kip
lost 87% of its value. Laos' foreign exchange problems peaked in
September 1999 when the kip fell from 3,500 kip to the dollar to
9,000 kip to the dollar in a matter of weeks. Now that the currency
has stabilized, however, the government seems content to let the
current situation persist, despite limited government revenue and
foreign exchange reserves. A landlocked country with a primitive
infrastructure, Laos has no railroads, a rudimentary road system,
and limited external and internal telecommunications. Electricity is
available in only a few urban areas. Subsistence agriculture
accounts for half of GDP and provides 80% of total employment. For
the foreseeable future the economy will continue to depend on aid
from the IMF and other international sources; Japan is currently the
largest bilateral aid donor; aid from the former USSR/Eastern Europe
has been cut sharply.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $9 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 4% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $1,700 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  51%

industry:  22%

services:  27% (1999 est.)

Population below poverty line: 46.1% (1993 est.)

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:
4.2%

highest 10%:  26.4% (1992)

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 33% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 1 million - 1.5 million

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture 80% (1997 est.)

Unemployment rate: 5.7% (1997 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $211 million

expenditures:  $462 million, including capital expenditures of $NA
(FY98/99 est.)

Industries: tin and gypsum mining, timber, electric power,
agricultural processing, construction, garments, tourism

Industrial production growth rate: 7.5% (1999 est.)

Electricity - production: 792 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  2.78%

hydro:  97.22%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 173.6 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 705 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 142 million kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: sweet potatoes, vegetables, corn, coffee,
sugarcane, tobacco, cotton; tea, peanuts, rice; water buffalo, pigs,
cattle, poultry

Exports: $323 million (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Exports - commodities: wood products, garments, electricity, coffee,
tin

Exports - partners: Vietnam, Thailand, Germany, France, Belgium

Imports: $540 million (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Imports - commodities: machinery and equipment, vehicles, fuel

Imports - partners: Thailand, Japan, Vietnam, China, Singapore, Hong
Kong

Debt - external: $2.46 billion (1998 est.)

Economic aid - recipient: $345 million (1999 est.)

Currency: kip (LAK)

Currency code: LAK

Exchange rates: kips per US dollar - 7,578.00 (December 2000),
7,102.03 (1999), 3,298.33 (1998), 1,259.98 (1997), 921.02 (1996)

Fiscal year: 1 October - 30 September



Laos    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 25,000 (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 4,915 (1997)

Telephone system: general assessment:  service to general public is
poor but improving, with over 20,000 telephones currently in service
and an additional 48,000 expected by 2001; the government relies on
a radiotelephone network to communicate with remote areas

domestic:  radiotelephone communications

international:  satellite earth station - 1 Intersputnik (Indian
Ocean region)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 12, FM 1, shortwave 4 (1998)

Radios: 730,000 (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 4 (1999)

Televisions: 52,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .la

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 1 (2000)

Internet users: 2,000 (2000)



Laos    Transportation

Railways: 0 km

Highways: total:  14,000 km

paved:  3,360 km

unpaved:  10,640 km (1991)

Waterways: 4,587 km approximately

note:  primarily Mekong and tributaries; 2,897 additional km are
intermittently navigable by craft drawing less than 0.5 m

Pipelines: petroleum products 136 km

Ports and harbors: none

Merchant marine: total:  1 ship (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 2,370
GRT/3,000 DWT

ships by type:  cargo 1 (2000 est.)

Airports: 51 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  8

2,438 to 3,047 m:  1

1,524 to 2,437 m:  5

914 to 1,523 m:  2 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  43

1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

914 to 1,523 m:  17

under 914 m:  25 (2000 est.)



Laos    Military

Military branches: Lao People's Army (LPA; includes riverine
element), Air Force, National Police Department

Military manpower - military age: 18 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  1,319,537 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
710,627 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  64,437
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $55 million (FY98)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 4.2% (FY96/97)



Laos    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: parts of the border with Thailand are
indefinite

Illicit drugs: world's third-largest illicit opium producer
(estimated cultivation in 1999 - 21,800 hectares, a 16% decrease
over 1998; estimated potential production in 1999 - 140 metric tons,
about the same as in 1998); potential heroin producer; transshipment
point for heroin and methamphetamine produced in Burma; illicit
producer of cannabis

======================================================================

@Latvia




Latvia    Introduction

Background: After a brief period of independence between the two
World Wars, Latvia was annexed by the USSR in 1940. It reestablished
its independence in 1991 following the breakup of the Soviet Union.
Although the last Russian troops left in 1994, the status of the
Russian minority (some 30% of the population) remains of concern to
Moscow. Latvia continues to revamp its economy for eventual
integration into various Western European political and economic
institutions.



Latvia    Geography

Location: Eastern Europe, bordering the Baltic Sea, between Estonia
and Lithuania

Geographic coordinates: 57 00 N, 25 00 E

Map references: Europe

Area: total:  64,589 sq km

land:  64,589 sq km

water:  0 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly larger than West Virginia

Land boundaries: total:  1,150 km

border countries:  Belarus 141 km, Estonia 339 km, Lithuania 453 km,
Russia 217 km

Coastline: 531 km

Maritime claims: continental shelf:  200-m depth or to the depth of
exploitation

exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: maritime; wet, moderate winters

Terrain: low plain

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Baltic Sea 0 m

highest point:  Gaizinkalns 312 m

Natural resources: minimal; amber, peat, limestone, dolomite,
hydropower, arable land

Land use: arable land:  27%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  13%

forests and woodland:  46%

other:  14% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 160 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: NA

Environment - current issues: air and water pollution because of a
lack of waste conversion equipment; Gulf of Riga and Daugava River
heavily polluted; contamination of soil and groundwater with
chemicals and petroleum products at military bases

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Air Pollution,
Biodiversity, Climate Change, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes,
Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands

signed, but not ratified:  Air Pollution-Persistent Organic
Pollutants, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol



Latvia    People

Population: 2,385,231 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  16.55% (male 201,746; female 193,036)

15-64 years:  68.15% (male 776,509; female 848,908)

65 years and over:  15.3% (male 118,110; female 246,922) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: -0.81% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 8.03 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 14.8 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: -1.27 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  0.91 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.48 male(s)/female

total population:  0.85 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 15.34 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  68.7 years

male:  62.8 years

female:  74.9 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 1.15 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 0.11% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 1,250 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: less than 100 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Latvian(s)

adjective:  Latvian

Ethnic groups: Latvian 56.5%, Russian 30.4%, Byelorussian 4.3%,
Ukrainian 2.8%, Polish 2.6%, other 3.4%

Religions: Lutheran, Roman Catholic, Russian Orthodox

Languages: Latvian or Lettish (official), Lithuanian, Russian, other

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  100%

male:  100%

female:  99% (1989 est.)



Latvia    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Republic of Latvia

conventional short form:  Latvia

local long form:  Latvijas Republika

local short form:  Latvija

former:  Latvian Soviet Socialist Republic

Government type: parliamentary democracy

Capital: Riga

Administrative divisions: 26 counties (singular - rajons) and 7
municipalities*: Aizkraukles Rajons, Aluksnes Rajons, Balvu Rajons,
Bauskas Rajons, Cesu Rajons, Daugavpils*, Daugavpils Rajons, Dobeles
Rajons, Gulbenes Rajons, Jekabpils Rajons, Jelgava*, Jelgavas
Rajons, Jurmala*, Kraslavas Rajons, Kuldigas Rajons, Leipaja*,
Liepajas Rajons, Limbazu Rajons, Ludzas Rajons, Madonas Rajons,
Ogres Rajons, Preilu Rajons, Rezekne*, Rezeknes Rajons, Riga*, Rigas
Rajons, Saldus Rajons, Talsu Rajons, Tukuma Rajons, Valkas Rajons,
Valmieras Rajons, Ventspils*, Ventspils Rajons

Independence: 18 November 1991 (from Soviet Union)

National holiday: Independence Day, 18 November (1918); note - 18
November 1918 is the date of independence from Soviet Russia, 18
November 1991 is the date of independence from the Soviet Union

Constitution: the 1991 Constitutional Law which supplements the 1922
constitution, provides for basic rights and freedoms

Legal system: based on civil law system

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal for Latvian citizens

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Vaira VIKE-FREIBERGA
(since 8 July 1999)

head of government:  Prime Minister Andris BERZINS (since 5 May 2000)

cabinet:  Council of Ministers nominated by the prime minister and
appointed by the Parliament

elections:  president elected by Parliament for a four-year term;
election last held 17 June 1999 (next to be held by NA June 2003);
prime minister appointed by the president

election results:  Vaira VIKE-FREIBERGA elected as a compromise
candidate in second phase of balloting, second round (after five
rounds in first phase failed); percent of parliamentary vote - Vaira
VIKE-FREIBERGA 53%, Valdis BIRKAVS 20%, Ingrida UDRE 9%

Legislative branch: unicameral Parliament or Saeima (100 seats;
members are elected by direct popular vote to serve four-year terms)

elections:  last held 3 October 1998 (next to be held NA October
2002)

election results:  percent of vote by party - People's Party 21%, LC
18%, TSP 14%, TB/LNNK 14%, Social Democrats 13%, New Party 7%; seats
by party - People's Party 24, LC 21, TB/LNNK 17, TSP 16, Social
Democrats 14, New Party 8

Judicial branch: Supreme Court (judges' appointments are confirmed
by Parliament)

Political parties and leaders: Anticommunist Union or PA [P.
MUCENIEKS]; Christian Democrat Union or LKDS [Talavs JUNDZIS];
Christian People's Party or KTP [Uldis AUGSTKALNS]; Democratic Party
"Saimnieks" or DPS [Ziedonis CEVERS, chairman]; For Fatherland and
Freedom or TB [Maris GRINBLATS], merged with LNNK; For Human Rights
in a United Latvia [Janis JURKANS], a coalition of the People's
Harmony Party or TSP, the Latvian Socialist Party or LSP, and the
Equal Rights Movement; Green Party or LZP [Olegs BATAREVSKI];
Latvian Liberal Party or LLP [J. DANOSS]; Latvian National
Conservative Party or LNNK [Andrejs KRASTINS]; Latvian National
Democratic Party or LNDP [A. MALINS]; Latvian Social-Democratic
Workers Party (Social Democrats) or LSDWU [Juris BOJARS and Janis
ADAMSONS, leaders]; Latvian Unity Party or LVP [Alberis KAULS];
Latvia's Way or LC [Andrei PANTELEJEVS]; New Christian Party [Ainars
SLESERS]; New Faction [Ingrida UDRE]; "Our Land" or MZ [M.
DAMBEKALNE]; Party of Russian Citizens or LKPP [V. SOROCHIN, V.
IVANOV]; People's Party [Andris SKELE]; Political Union of
Economists or TPA [Edvins KIDE]

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: BIS, CBSS, CCC, CE, EAPC,
EBRD, ECE, EU (applicant), FAO, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA,
IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Intelsat (nonsignatory user), Interpol,
IOC, IOM, ISO (correspondent), ITU, NSG, OAS (observer), OPCW, OSCE,
PFP, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UPU, WEU (associate partner), WHO, WIPO,
WMO, WTrO

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Aivis RONIS

chancery:  4325 17th Street NW, Washington, DC 20011

telephone:  [1] (202) 726-8213, 8214

FAX:  [1] (202) 726-6785

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
James H. HOLMES

embassy:  Raina Boulevard 7, LV-1510, Riga

mailing address:  American Embassy Riga, PSC 78, Box Riga, APO AE
09723

telephone:  [371] 721-0005

FAX:  [371] 782-0047

Flag description: three horizontal bands of maroon (top), white
(half-width), and maroon



Latvia    Economy

Economy - overview: In 2000, Latvia's transitional economy recovered
from the 1998 Russian financial crisis, largely due to the SKELE
government's budget stringency and a gradual reorientation of
exports toward EU countries, lessening Latvia's trade dependency on
Russia. Latvia officially joined the World Trade Organization in
February 1999 - the first Baltic state to join - and was invited at
the Helsinki EU Summit in December 1999 to begin accession talks in
early 2000. Unemployment fell to 7.8% in 2000, down from 9.6% in
1999, and 9.2% in 1998. Privatization of large state-owned utilities
and the shipping industry faced more delays in 2000, and political
instability will continue to delay completion of the privatization
process over the next year. Latvia projects 6% GDP growth, 2.5%-3.0%
inflation, and a 1.7% fiscal deficit in 2001. Preparing for EU
membership over the next few years remains a top foreign policy goal.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $17.3 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 5.5% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $7,200 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  5%

industry:  33%

services:  62% (1999)

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:
2.9%

highest 10%:  25.9% (1998)

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 2.7% (2000)

Labor force: 1.4 million (2000 est.)

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture 10%, industry 25%, services
65% (2000 est.)

Unemployment rate: 7.8% (2000 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $1.33 billion

expenditures:  $1.27 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
(1998 est.)

Industries: buses, vans, street and railroad cars, synthetic fibers,
agricultural machinery, fertilizers, washing machines, radios,
electronics, pharmaceuticals, processed foods, textiles; note -
dependent on imports for energy, raw materials, and intermediate
products

Industrial production growth rate: 6.3% (2000 est.)

Electricity - production: 3.996 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  31.78%

hydro:  68.22%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 4.316 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 400 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 1 billion kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: grain, sugar beets, potatoes, vegetables;
beef, milk, eggs; fish

Exports: $2.1 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Exports - commodities: wood and wood products, machinery and
equipment, metals, textiles, foodstuffs

Exports - partners: Germany 16%, UK 11%, Sweden 11%, Russia 7% (1999)

Imports: $3.2 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Imports - commodities: machinery and equipment, chemicals, fuels

Imports - partners: Russia 15%, Germany 10%, Finland 9%, Sweden 7%
(1999)

Debt - external: $800 million (2000 est.)

Economic aid - recipient: $96.2 million (1995)

Currency: Latvian lat (LVL)

Currency code: LVL

Exchange rates: lati per US dollar - 0.614 (January 2001), 0.607
(2000), 0.585 (1999), 0.590 (1998), 0.581 (1997), 0.551 (1996)

Fiscal year: calendar year



Latvia    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 748,000 (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 77,100 (1997)

Telephone system: general assessment:  inadequate, but is being
modernized to provide an international capability independent of the
Moscow international switch; more facilities are being installed for
individual use

domestic:  expansion underway in intercity trunk line connections,
rural exchanges, and mobile systems; still many unsatisfied
subscriber applications

international:  international connections are now available via
cable and a satellite earth station at Riga, enabling direct
connections for most calls (1998)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 8, FM 56, shortwave 1 (1998)

Radios: 1.76 million (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 44 (plus 31 repeaters) (1995)

Televisions: 1.22 million (1997)

Internet country code: .lv

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 42 (2000)

Internet users: 234,000 (2000)



Latvia    Transportation

Railways: total:  2,412 km

broad gauge:  2,379 km 1.520-m gauge (271 km electrified) (1992)

narrow gauge:  33 km 0.750-m gauge (1994)

Highways: total:  59,178 km

paved:  22,843 km

unpaved:  36,335 km (1998 est.)

Waterways: 300 km (perennially navigable)

Pipelines: crude oil 750 km; refined products 780 km; natural gas
560 km (1992)

Ports and harbors: Daugavpils, Liepaja, Riga, Ventspils

Merchant marine: total:  8 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 27,984
GRT/29,978 DWT

ships by type:  cargo 2, petroleum tanker 3, refrigerated cargo 3
(2000 est.)

Airports: 25 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  13

2,438 to 3,047 m:  7

1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

914 to 1,523 m:  1

under 914 m:  4 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  12

2,438 to 3,047 m:  1

1,524 to 2,437 m:  2

914 to 1,523 m:  2

under 914 m:  7 (2000 est.)



Latvia    Military

Military branches: Ground Forces, Navy, Air and Air Defense Forces,
Security Forces, Border Guard, Home Guard (Zemessardze)

Military manpower - military age: 18 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  590,784 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
463,944 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  19,114
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $60 million (FY99)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 0.9% (FY99)



Latvia    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: draft treaty delimiting the boundary with
Russia has not been signed; has not ratified 1998 maritime boundary
agreement with Lithuania (primary concern is oil exploration rights)

Illicit drugs: transshipment point for opiates and cannabis from
Central and Southwest Asia to Western Europe and Scandinavia and
Latin American cocaine and some synthetics from Western Europe to
CIS; limited production of illicit amphetamine, ephedrine, and
ecstasy for export

======================================================================

@Lebanon




Lebanon    Introduction

Background: Lebanon has made progress toward rebuilding its
political institutions and regaining its national sovereignty since
1991 and the end of the devastating 16-year civil war. Under the
Ta'if Accord - the blueprint for national reconciliation - the
Lebanese have established a more equitable political system,
particularly by giving Muslims a greater say in the political
process while institutionalizing sectarian divisions in the
government. Since the end of the war, the Lebanese have conducted
several successful elections, most of the militias have been
weakened or disbanded, and the Lebanese Armed Forces (LAF) have
extended central government authority over about two-thirds of the
country. Hizballah, the radical Shi'a party, retains its weapons.
Syria maintains about 25,000 troops in Lebanon based mainly in
Beirut, North Lebanon, and the Bekaa Valley. Syria's troop
deployment was legitimized by the Arab League during Lebanon's civil
war and in the Ta'if Accord. Damascus justifies its continued
military presence in Lebanon by citing the continued weakness of the
LAF, Beirut's requests, and the failure of the Lebanese Government
to implement all of the constitutional reforms in the Ta'if Accord.
Israel's withdrawal from its security zone in southern Lebanon in
May of 2000, however, has emboldened some Lebanese Christians and
Druze to demand that Syria withdraw its forces as well.



Lebanon    Geography

Location: Middle East, bordering the Mediterranean Sea, between
Israel and Syria

Geographic coordinates: 33 50 N, 35 50 E

Map references: Middle East

Area: total:  10,400 sq km

land:  10,230 sq km

water:  170 sq km

Area - comparative: about 0.7 times the size of Connecticut

Land boundaries: total:  454 km

border countries:  Israel 79 km, Syria 375 km

Coastline: 225 km

Maritime claims: territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: Mediterranean; mild to cool, wet winters with hot, dry
summers; Lebanon mountains experience heavy winter snows

Terrain: narrow coastal plain; Al Biqa' (Bekaa Valley) separates
Lebanon and Anti-Lebanon Mountains

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Mediterranean Sea 0 m

highest point:  Qurnat as Sawda' 3,088 m

Natural resources: limestone, iron ore, salt, water-surplus state in
a water-deficit region, arable land

Land use: arable land:  18%

permanent crops:  9%

permanent pastures:  1%

forests and woodland:  8%

other:  64% (1996 est.)

Irrigated land: 860 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: dust storms, sandstorms

Environment - current issues: deforestation; soil erosion;
desertification; air pollution in Beirut from vehicular traffic and
the burning of industrial wastes; pollution of coastal waters from
raw sewage and oil spills

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Desertification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea,
Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands

signed, but not ratified:  Environmental Modification, Marine
Dumping, Marine Life Conservation

Geography - note: Nahr al Litani only major river in Near East not
crossing an international boundary; rugged terrain historically
helped isolate, protect, and develop numerous factional groups based
on religion, clan, and ethnicity



Lebanon    People

Population: 3,627,774 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  27.57% (male 509,975; female 490,031)

15-64 years:  65.72% (male 1,136,995; female 1,247,184)

65 years and over:  6.71% (male 110,964; female 132,625) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 1.38% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 20.16 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 6.39 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  0.91 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.84 male(s)/female

total population:  0.94 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 28.35 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  71.52 years

male:  69.13 years

female:  74.03 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 2.05 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 0.09% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: NA

HIV/AIDS - deaths: NA

Nationality: noun:  Lebanese (singular and plural)

adjective:  Lebanese

Ethnic groups: Arab 95%, Armenian 4%, other 1%

Religions: Muslim 70% (including Shi'a, Sunni, Druze, Isma'ilite,
Alawite or Nusayri), Christian 30% (including Orthodox Christian,
Catholic, Protestant), Jewish NEGL%

Languages: Arabic (official), French, English, Armenian

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  86.4%

male:  90.8%

female:  82.2% (1997 est.)



Lebanon    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Lebanese Republic

conventional short form:  Lebanon

local long form:  Al Jumhuriyah al Lubnaniyah

local short form:  Lubnan

Government type: republic

Capital: Beirut

Administrative divisions: 5 governorates (mohafazat, singular -
mohafazah); Beyrouth, Ech Chimal, Ej Jnoub, El Bekaa, Jabal Loubnane

Independence: 22 November 1943 (from League of Nations mandate under
French administration)

National holiday: Independence Day, 22 November (1943)

Constitution: 23 May 1926, amended a number of times, most recently
Charter of Lebanese National Reconciliation (Taif Accord) of October
1989

Legal system: mixture of Ottoman law, canon law, Napoleonic code,
and civil law; no judicial review of legislative acts; has not
accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Suffrage: 21 years of age; compulsory for all males; authorized for
women at age 21 with elementary education

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Emile LAHUD (since 24
November 1998)

head of government:  Prime Minister Rafiq HARIRI (since 23 October
2000); Deputy Prime Minister Issam FARES (since 23 October 2000)

cabinet:  Cabinet chosen by the prime minister in consultation with
the president and members of the National Assembly; the current
Cabinet was formed in 1998

elections:  president elected by the National Assembly for a
six-year term; election last held 15 October 1998 (next to be held
NA 2004); prime minister and deputy prime minister appointed by the
president in consultation with the National Assembly; by custom, the
president is a Maronite Christian, the prime minister is a Sunni
Muslim, and the speaker of the legislature is a Shi'a Muslim

election results:  Emile LAHUD elected president; National Assembly
vote - 118 votes in favor, 0 against, 10 abstentions

Legislative branch: unicameral National Assembly or Majlis Alnuwab
(Arabic) or Assemblee Nationale (French) (128 seats; members elected
by popular vote on the basis of sectarian proportional
representation to serve four-year terms)

elections:  last held 27 August and 3 September 2000 (next to be
held NA 2004)

election results:  percent of vote by party - Muslim 57% (of which
Sunni 25%, Sh'ite 25%, Druze 6%, Alawite less than 1%), Christian
43% (of which Maronite 23%); seats by party - Muslim 64 (of which
Sunni 27, Sh'ite 27, Druze 8, Alawite 2), Christian 64 (of which
Maronite 34)

Judicial branch: four Courts of Cassation (three courts for civil
and commercial cases and one court for criminal cases);
Constitutional Council (called for in Ta'if Accord - rules on
constitutionality of laws); Supreme Council (hears charges against
the president and prime minister as needed)

Political parties and leaders: political party activity is organized
along largely sectarian lines; numerous political groupings exist,
consisting of individual political figures and followers motivated
by religious, clan, and economic considerations

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: ABEDA, ACCT, AFESD, AL,
AMF, CCC, ESCWA, FAO, G-24, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU,
ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat,
Interpol, IOC, ISO (correspondent), ITU, NAM, OAS (observer), OIC,
PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNRWA, UPU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO,
WMO, WToO, WTrO (observer)

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Dr. Farid ABBOUD

chancery:  2560 28th Street NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone:  [1] (202) 939-6300

FAX:  [1] (202) 939-6324

consulate(s) general:  Detroit, New York, and Los Angeles

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
David M. SATTERFIELD

embassy:  Antelias, Beirut

mailing address:  P. O. Box 70-840, Antelias, Beirut; PSC 815, Box
2, FPO AE 09836-0002

telephone:  [961] (4) 543600, 543600

FAX:  [961] (4) 544136

Flag description: three horizontal bands of red (top), white (double
width), and red with a green and brown cedar tree centered in the
white band



Lebanon    Economy

Economy - overview: The 1975-91 civil war seriously damaged
Lebanon's economic infrastructure, cut national output by half, and
all but ended Lebanon's position as a Middle Eastern entrepot and
banking hub. Peace enabled the central government to restore control
in Beirut, begin collecting taxes, and regain access to key port and
government facilities. Economic recovery was helped by a financially
sound banking system and resilient small- and medium-scale
manufacturers. Family remittances, banking services, manufactured
and farm exports, and international aid provided the main sources of
foreign exchange. Lebanon's economy has made impressive gains since
the launch in 1993 of "Horizon 2000," the government's $20 billion
reconstruction program. Real GDP grew 8% in 1994, 7% in 1995, 4% per
year in 1996 and 1997 but slowed to 2% in 1998, -1% in 1999, and 1%
in 2000. Annual inflation fell during the course of the 1990s from
more than 100% to 0%, and foreign exchange reserves jumped from $1.4
billion to more than $6 billion. Burgeoning capital inflows have
generated foreign payments surpluses, and the Lebanese pound has
remained very stable for the past two years. Lebanon has rebuilt
much of its war-torn physical and financial infrastructure.
Solidere, a $2-billion firm, has managed the reconstruction of
Beirut's central business district; the stock market reopened in
January 1996; and international banks and insurance companies are
returning. The government nonetheless faces serious challenges in
the economic arena. It has funded reconstruction by tapping foreign
exchange reserves and by borrowing heavily - mostly from domestic
banks. The newly re-installed HARIRI government's announced policies
fail to address the ever-increasing budgetary deficits and national
debt burden. The gap between rich and poor has widened in the 1990s,
resulting in grassroots dissatisfaction over the skewed distribution
of the reconstruction's benefits.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $18.2 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 1% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $5,000 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  12%

industry:  27%

services:  61% (1999 est.)

Population below poverty line: 28% (1999 est.)

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 0% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 1.3 million (1999 est.)

note:  in addition, there are as many as 1 million foreign workers
(1997 est.)

Labor force - by occupation: services NA%, industry NA%, agriculture
NA%

Unemployment rate: 18% (1997 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $3.31 billion

expenditures:  $5.55 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
(2000 est.)

Industries: banking; food processing; jewelry; cement; textiles;
mineral and chemical products; wood and furniture products; oil
refining; metal fabricating

Industrial production growth rate: NA%

Electricity - production: 7.748 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  91.29%

hydro:  8.71%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 7.86 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 654 million kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: citrus, grapes, tomatoes, apples,
vegetables, potatoes, olives, tobacco; sheep, goats

Exports: $700 million (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Exports - commodities: foodstuffs and tobacco, textiles, chemicals,
precious stones, metal and metal products, electrical equipment and
products, jewelry, paper and paper products

Exports - partners: UAE 9%, Saudi Arabia 8%, Syria 6%, US 6%, Kuwait
6%, France 5%, Belgium 5%, Jordan 4% (1999)

Imports: $6.2 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Imports - commodities: foodstuffs, machinery and transport
equipment, consumer goods, chemicals, textiles, metals, fuels,
agricultural foods

Imports - partners: Italy 13%, France 11%, Germany 8%, US 7%,
Switzerland 6%, Japan, UK, Syria (1999)

Debt - external: $9.6 billion (2000 est.)

Economic aid - recipient: $3.5 billion (pledges 1997-2001)

Currency: Lebanese pound (LBP)

Currency code: LBP

Exchange rates: Lebanese pounds per US dollar - 1,507.5 (January
2001), 1,507.5 (2000), 1,507.8 (1999), 1,516.1 (1998), 1,539.5
(1997), 1,571.4 (1996)

Fiscal year: calendar year



Lebanon    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 700,000 (1999)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 580,000 (1999)

Telephone system: general assessment:  telecommunications system
severely damaged by civil war; rebuilding well underway

domestic:  primarily microwave radio relay and cable

international:  satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat (1 Indian
Ocean and 1 Atlantic Ocean) (erratic operations); coaxial cable to
Syria; microwave radio relay to Syria but inoperable beyond Syria to
Jordan; 3 submarine coaxial cables

Radio broadcast stations: AM 20, FM 22, shortwave 4 (1998)

Radios: 2.85 million (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 15 (plus 5 repeaters) (1995)

Televisions: 1.18 million (1997)

Internet country code: .lb

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 22 (2000)

Internet users: 227,500 (2000)



Lebanon    Transportation

Railways: total:  399 km (mostly unusable because of damage in civil
war)

standard gauge:  317 km 1.435-m

narrow gauge:  82 km (1999)

Highways: total:  7,300 km

paved:  6,350 km

unpaved:  950 km (1999 est.)

Waterways: none

Pipelines: crude oil 72 km (none in operation)

Ports and harbors: Antilyas, Batroun, Beirut, Chekka, El Mina, Ez
Zahrani, Jbail, Jounie, Naqoura, Sidon, Tripoli, Tyre

Merchant marine: total:  71 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
379,705 GRT/592,672 DWT

ships by type:  bulk 10, cargo 42, chemical tanker 1, combination
bulk 1, combination ore/oil 1, container 4, liquefied gas 1,
livestock carrier 5, refrigerated cargo 1, roll on/roll off 2,
vehicle carrier 3

note:  includes some foreign-owned ships registered here as a flag
of convenience: Netherlands 1, Syria 1 (2000 est.)

Airports: 8 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  5

over 3,047 m:  1

2,438 to 3,047 m:  2

1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

under 914 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  3

914 to 1,523 m:  2

under 914 m:  1 (2000 est.)



Lebanon    Military

Military branches: Lebanese Armed Forces (LAF; includes Army, Navy,
and Air Force)

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  980,412 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
605,332 (2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $343 million (FY99/00)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 4.8% (FY99/00)



Lebanon    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: Syrian troops in northern, central, and
eastern Lebanon since October 1976; Lebanese government claims
Shab'a Farms area of Israeli-occupied Golan Heights as a part of
Lebanon from which Hizballah conducts cross-border attacks

Illicit drugs: inconsequential producer of hashish; a
Lebanese/Syrian eradication campaign started in the early 1990s has
practically eliminated the opium and cannabis crops

======================================================================

@Lesotho




Lesotho    Introduction

Background: Basutoland was renamed the Kingdom of Lesotho upon
independence from the UK in 1966. Constitutional government was
restored in 1993 after 23 years of military rule.



Lesotho    Geography

Location: Southern Africa, an enclave of South Africa

Geographic coordinates: 29 30 S, 28 30 E

Map references: Africa

Area: total:  30,355 sq km

land:  30,355 sq km

water:  0 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly smaller than Maryland

Land boundaries: total:  909 km

border countries:  South Africa 909 km

Coastline: 0 km (landlocked)

Maritime claims: none (landlocked)

Climate: temperate; cool to cold, dry winters; hot, wet summers

Terrain: mostly highland with plateaus, hills, and mountains

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  junction of the Orange and
Makhaleng Rivers 1,400 m

highest point:  Thabana Ntlenyana 3,482 m

Natural resources: water, agricultural and grazing land, some
diamonds and other minerals

Land use: arable land:  11%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  66%

forests and woodland:  0%

other:  23% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 30 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: periodic droughts

Environment - current issues: population pressure forcing settlement
in marginal areas results in overgrazing, severe soil erosion, and
soil exhaustion; desertification; Highlands Water Project controls,
stores, and redirects water to South Africa

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification,
Hazardous Wastes, Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer Protection

signed, but not ratified:  Endangered Species, Law of the Sea,
Marine Dumping

Geography - note: landlocked; surrounded by South Africa



Lesotho    People

Population: 2,177,062

note:  estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
life expectancy, higher infant mortality and death rates, lower
population and growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  39.28% (male 430,147; female 424,994)

15-64 years:  56.03% (male 588,440; female 631,404)

65 years and over:  4.69% (male 43,033; female 59,044) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 1.49% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 31.24 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 15.7 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: -0.63 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.03 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.01 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  0.93 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.73 male(s)/female

total population:  0.95 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 82.77 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  48.84 years

male:  47.97 years

female:  49.74 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 4.08 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 23.57% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 240,000 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: 16,000 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Mosotho (singular), Basotho (plural)

adjective:  Basotho

Ethnic groups: Sotho 99.7%, Europeans, Asians, and other 0.3%,

Religions: Christian 80%, indigenous beliefs 20%

Languages: Sesotho (southern Sotho), English (official), Zulu, Xhosa

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  83%

male:  72%

female:  93% (1999 est.)



Lesotho    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Kingdom of Lesotho

conventional short form:  Lesotho

former:  Basutoland

Government type: parliamentary constitutional monarchy

Capital: Maseru

Administrative divisions: 10 districts; Berea, Butha-Buthe, Leribe,
Mafeteng, Maseru, Mohales Hoek, Mokhotlong, Qacha's Nek, Quthing,
Thaba-Tseka

Independence: 4 October 1966 (from UK)

National holiday: Independence Day, 4 October (1966)

Constitution: 2 April 1993

Legal system: based on English common law and Roman-Dutch law;
judicial review of legislative acts in High Court and Court of
Appeal; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  King LETSIE III (since 7 February
1996); note - King LETSIE III formerly occupied the throne from
November 1990 to February 1995, while his father was in exile

head of government:  Prime Minister Pakalitha MOSISILI (since 23 May
1998)

cabinet:  Cabinet

elections:  none; according to the constitution, the leader of the
majority party in the assembly automatically becomes prime minister;
the monarch is hereditary, but, under the terms of the constitution
which came into effect after the March 1993 election, the monarch is
a "living symbol of national unity" with no executive or legislative
powers; under traditional law the college of chiefs has the power to
determine who is next in the line of succession, who shall serve as
regent in the event that the successor is not of mature age, and may
even depose the monarch

Legislative branch: bicameral Parliament consists of the Senate (33
members - 22 principal chiefs and 11 other members appointed by the
ruling party) and the Assembly (80 seats; members elected by popular
vote for five-year terms); note - number of seats in the Assembly
rose from 65 to 80 in the May 1998 election; on 28 February 2001,
the Senate approved expansion of the Assembly by a further 50 seats
in the next election, which may be held as early as January 2002

elections:  last held 23 May 1998 (next to be held NA March 2001)

election results:  percent of vote by party - LCD 60.7%, BNP 24.5%,
other 14.8%; seats by party - LCD 79, BNP 1

note:  results contested; opposition parties claimed the election
was fraudulent and staged a coup; Southern African Development
Community (SADC) forces intervened in September 1998 and restored
order; the Interim Political Authority (IPA) was set up in December
1998 to create a new electoral system and conduct new elections.

Judicial branch: High Court (chief justice appointed by the
monarch); Court of Appeal; Magistrate's Court; customary or
traditional court

Political parties and leaders: Basotho Congress Party or BCP
[Tseliso MAKHAKHE]; Basotho National Party or BNP [Maj. Gen. Justine
Metsing LEKHANYA]; Lesotho Congress for Democracy or LCD [Phebe
MOTEBANO, chairwoman; Dr. Pakalitha MOSISILI, leader] - the
governing party; United Democratic Party or UDP [Charles MOFELI];
Marematlou Freedom Party or MFP and Setlamo Alliance [Vincent
MALEBO]; Progressive National Party or PNP [Chief Peete Nkoebe
PEETE]; Sefate Democratic Party or SDP [Bofihla NKUEBE]

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: ACP, AfDB, C, CCC, ECA,
FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF,
Intelsat (nonsignatory user), Interpol, IOC, ISO (subscriber), ITU,
NAM, OAU, OPCW, SACU, SADC, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UPU,
WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Lebohang Kenneth MOLEKO

chancery:  2511 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone:  [1] (202) 797-5533 through 5536

FAX:  [1] (202) 234-6815

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Katherine H. PETERSON

embassy:  254 Kingsway, Maseru West (Consular Section)

mailing address:  P. O. Box 333, Maseru 100, Lesotho

telephone:  [266] 312666

FAX:  [266] 310116

Flag description: divided diagonally from the lower hoist side
corner; the upper half is white, bearing the brown silhouette of a
large shield with crossed spear and club; the lower half is a
diagonal blue band with a green triangle in the corner



Lesotho    Economy

Economy - overview: Small, landlocked, and mountainous, Lesotho's
primary natural resource is water. Its economy is based on
subsistence agriculture, livestock, and remittances from miners
employed in South Africa. The number of such mineworkers has
declined steadily over the past several years. A small manufacturing
base depends largely on farm products that support the milling,
canning, leather, and jute industries. Agricultural products are
exported primarily to South Africa. Proceeds from membership in a
common customs union with South Africa form the majority of
government revenue. Although drought has decreased agricultural
activity over the past few years, completion of a major hydropower
facility in January 1998 now permits the sale of water to South
Africa, generating royalties for Lesotho. The pace of substantial
privatization has increased in recent years. In December 1999, the
government embarked on a nine-month IMF staff-monitored program
aimed at structural adjustment and stabilization of macroeconomic
fundamentals. The government is in the process of applying for a
three-year successor program with the IMF under its Poverty
Reduction and Growth Facility.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $5.1 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 2.5% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $2,400 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  18%

industry:  38%

services:  44% (1999)

Population below poverty line: 49.2% (1999 est.)

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:
0.9%

highest 10%:  43.4% (1986-87)

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 6% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 700,000 economically active

Labor force - by occupation: 86% of resident population engaged in
subsistence agriculture; roughly 35% of the active male wage earners
work in South Africa

Unemployment rate: 45% (2000 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $76 million

expenditures:  $80 million, including capital expenditures of $15
million (FY99/00 est.)

Industries: food, beverages, textiles, handicrafts; construction;
tourism

Industrial production growth rate: 15.5% (1999 est.)

Electricity - production: 0 kWh; note - electricity supplied by
South Africa (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  0%

hydro:  0%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 55 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 55 million kWh

note:  electricity supplied by South Africa (1999)

Agriculture - products: corn, wheat, pulses, sorghum, barley;
livestock

Exports: $175 million (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Exports - commodities: manufactures 75% (clothing, footwear, road
vehicles), wool and mohair, food and live animals (1998)

Exports - partners: South African Customs Union 65%, North America
34% (1998)

Imports: $700 million (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Imports - commodities: food; building materials, vehicles,
machinery, medicines, petroleum products (1995)

Imports - partners: South African Customs Union 90%, Asia 7% (1998)

Debt - external: $720 million (2000 est.)

Economic aid - recipient: $123.7 million (1995)

Currency: loti (LSL); South African rand (ZAR)

Currency code: LSL; ZAR

Exchange rates: maloti per US dollar - 7.78307 (January 2001),
6.93983 (2000), 6.10948 (1999), 5.52828 (1998), 4.60796 (1997),
4.29935 (1996); note - the Lesotho loti is at par with the South
African rand which is also legal tender; maloti is the plural form
of loti

Fiscal year: 1 April - 31 March



Lesotho    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 20,000 (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 1,262 (1996)

Telephone system: general assessment:  rudimentary system

domestic:  consists of a few landlines, a small microwave radio
relay system, and a minor radiotelephone communication system

international:  satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 1, FM 2, shortwave 1 (1998)

Radios: 104,000 (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 1 (2000)

Televisions: 54,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .ls

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 1 (2000)

Internet users: 1,000 (2000)



Lesotho    Transportation

Railways: total:  2.6 km; note - owned by, operated by, and included
in the statistics of South Africa

narrow gauge:  2.6 km 1.067-m gauge (1995)

Highways: total:  4,955 km

paved:  887 km

unpaved:  4,068 km (1996)

Waterways: none

Ports and harbors: none

Airports: 29 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  4

over 3,047 m:  1

914 to 1,523 m:  1

under 914 m:  2 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  25

914 to 1,523 m:  4

under 914 m:  21 (2000 est.)



Lesotho    Military

Military branches: Lesotho Defense Force (LDF; includes Army and Air
Wing), Royal Lesotho Mounted Police (RLMP)

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  515,464 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
277,369 (2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $34 million (1999)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: NA%

Military - note: The Lesotho Government in 1999 began an open debate
on the future structure, size, and role of the armed forces,
especially considering the Lesotho Defense Force's (LDF) history of
intervening in political affairs.



Lesotho    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

======================================================================

@Liberia




Liberia    Introduction

Background: Seven years of civil strife were brought to a close in
1996 when free and open presidential and legislative elections were
held. President TAYLOR now holds strong executive power with no real
political opposition. The years of fighting coupled with the flight
of most businesses have disrupted formal economic activity. A still
unsettled domestic security situation has slowed the process of
rebuilding the social and economic structure of this war-torn
country.



Liberia    Geography

Location: Western Africa, bordering the North Atlantic Ocean,
between Cote d'Ivoire and Sierra Leone

Geographic coordinates: 6 30 N, 9 30 W

Map references: Africa

Area: total:  111,370 sq km

land:  96,320 sq km

water:  15,050 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly larger than Tennessee

Land boundaries: total:  1,585 km

border countries:  Guinea 563 km, Cote d'Ivoire 716 km, Sierra Leone
306 km

Coastline: 579 km

Maritime claims: territorial sea:  200 NM

Climate: tropical; hot, humid; dry winters with hot days and cool to
cold nights; wet, cloudy summers with frequent heavy showers

Terrain: mostly flat to rolling coastal plains rising to rolling
plateau and low mountains in northeast

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Atlantic Ocean 0 m

highest point:  Mount Wuteve 1,380 m

Natural resources: iron ore, timber, diamonds, gold, hydropower

Land use: arable land:  1%

permanent crops:  3%

permanent pastures:  59%

forests and woodland:  18%

other:  19% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 20 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: dust-laden harmattan winds blow from the Sahara
(December to March)

Environment - current issues: tropical rain forest subject to
deforestation; soil erosion; loss of biodiversity; pollution of
coastal waters from oil residue and raw sewage

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Desertification, Endangered Species, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer
Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94

signed, but not ratified:  Climate Change, Environmental
Modification, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Marine Life
Conservation



Liberia    People

Population: 3,225,837 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  43.21% (male 698,178; female 695,599)

15-64 years:  53.34% (male 840,103; female 880,403)

65 years and over:  3.45% (male 56,073; female 55,481) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 1.92% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 46.55 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 16.36 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: -11 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

note:  by the end of 1999, all Liberian refugees, who had fled the
domestic strife, were assumed to have returned

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.03 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  0.95 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  1.01 male(s)/female

total population:  0.98 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 132.42 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  51.41 years

male:  49.96 years

female:  52.91 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 6.36 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 2.8% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 39,000 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: 4,500 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Liberian(s)

adjective:  Liberian

Ethnic groups: indigenous African tribes 95% (including Kpelle,
Bassa, Gio, Kru, Grebo, Mano, Krahn, Gola, Gbandi, Loma, Kissi, Vai,
and Bella), Americo-Liberians 2.5% (descendants of immigrants from
the US who had been slaves), Congo People 2.5% (descendants of
immigrants from the Caribbean who had been slaves)

Religions: indigenous beliefs 40%, Christian 40%, Muslim 20%

Languages: English 20% (official), some 20 ethnic group languages,
of which a few can be written and are used in correspondence

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  38.3%

male:  53.9%

female:  22.4% (1995 est.)

note:  these figures are increasing because of the improving school
system



Liberia    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Republic of Liberia

conventional short form:  Liberia

Government type: republic

Capital: Monrovia

Administrative divisions: 13 counties; Bomi, Bong, Grand Bassa,
Grand Cape Mount, Grand Gedeh, Grand Kru, Lofa, Margibi, Maryland,
Montserrado, Nimba, River Cess, Sinoe

Independence: 26 July 1847

National holiday: Independence Day, 26 July (1847)

Constitution: 6 January 1986

Legal system: dual system of statutory law based on Anglo-American
common law for the modern sector and customary law based on
unwritten tribal practices for indigenous sector

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Charles Ghankay TAYLOR
(since 2 August 1997); note - the president is both the chief of
state and head of government

head of government:  President Charles Ghankay TAYLOR (since 2
August 1997); note - the president is both the chief of state and
head of government

cabinet:  Cabinet appointed by the president and confirmed by the
Senate

elections:  president elected by popular vote for a six-year term
(renewable); election last held 19 July 1997 (next to be held NA
July 2003)

election results:  Charles Ghankay TAYLOR elected president; percent
of vote - Charles Ghankay TAYLOR (NPP) 75.3%, Ellen Johnson SIRLEAF
(UP) 9.6%, Alhaji KROMAH (ALCOP) 4%, other 11.1%

Legislative branch: bicameral National Assembly consists of the
Senate (26 seats; members elected by popular vote to serve nine-year
terms) and the House of Representatives (64 seats; members elected
by popular vote to serve six-year terms)

elections:  Senate - last held 19 July 1997 (next to be held in NA
2006); House of Representatives - last held 19 July 1997 (next to be
held in NA 2003)

election results:  Senate - percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by
party - NPP 21, UP 3, ALCOP 2; House of Representatives - percent of
vote by party - NA%; seats by party - NPP 49, UP 7, ALCOP 3,
Alliance of Political Parties 2, UPP 2, LPP 1; note - the Alliance
of Political Parties was a coalition of the LAP and the Liberia
Unification Party or LUP

Judicial branch: Supreme Court

Political parties and leaders: All Liberia Coalition Party or ALCOP
[Lusinee KAMARA]; Liberian Action Party or LAP [Cletus WOTORSON];
Liberian National Union or LINU [Henry MONIBA, chairman]; Liberian
People's Party or LPP [Togba-Nah TIPOTEH, chairman]; National
Democratic Party of Liberia or NDPL [Isaac DAKINAH]; National
Patriotic Party or NPP [Charles Ghankay TAYLOR] - governing party;
People's Progressive Party or PPP [Chea CHEAPOO, chairman];
Reformation Alliance Party or RAP [Henry Boimah FAHNBULLEH,
chairman]; True Whig Party or TWP [Rudolph SHERMAN, chairman];
United People's Party or UPP [Gabriel Baccus MATTHEWS, chairman];
Unity Party or UP [Charles Clarke]

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: ACP, AfDB, CCC, ECA,
ECOWAS, FAO, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC,
IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat (nonsignatory user),
Interpol, IOC, IOM, ITU, NAM, OAU, OPCW, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO,
UPU, WCL, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
William BULL

chancery:  5201 16th Street NW, Washington, DC 20011

telephone:  [1] (202) 723-0437

FAX:  [1] (202) 723-0436

consulate(s) general:  New York

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Bismarck MYRICK

embassy:  111 United Nations Drive, P. O. Box 10-0098, Mamba Point,
Monrovia

mailing address:  use embassy street address

telephone:  [231] 226-370 through 226-380

FAX:  [231] 226-148

Flag description: 11 equal horizontal stripes of red (top and
bottom) alternating with white; there is a white five-pointed star
on a blue square in the upper hoist-side corner; the design was
based on the US flag



Liberia    Economy

Economy - overview: A civil war in 1989-96 destroyed much of
Liberia's economy, especially the infrastructure in and around
Monrovia. Many businessmen fled the country, taking capital and
expertise with them. Some returned during 1997. Many will not
return. Richly endowed with water, mineral resources, forests, and a
climate favorable to agriculture, Liberia had been a producer and
exporter of basic products, while local manufacturing, mainly
foreign owned, had been small in scope. The democratically elected
government, installed in August 1997, inherited massive
international debts and currently relies on revenues from its
maritime registry to provide the bulk of its foreign exchange
earnings. The restoration of the infrastructure and the raising of
incomes in this ravaged economy depend on the implementation of
sound macro- and micro-economic policies of the new government,
including the encouragement of foreign investment. Recent growth has
been from a low base, and continued growth will require major policy
successes.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $3.35 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 15% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $1,100 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  60%

industry:  10%

services:  30% (2000 est.)

Population below poverty line: 80%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 5% (2000 est.)

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture 70%, industry 8%, services
22% (1999 est.)

Unemployment rate: 70%

Budget: revenues:  $NA

expenditures:  $NA, including capital expenditures of $NA

Industries: rubber processing, palm oil processing, diamonds

Industrial production growth rate: NA

Electricity - production: 432 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  100%

hydro:  0%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 401.8 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: rubber, coffee, cocoa, rice, cassava
(tapioca), palm oil, sugarcane, bananas; sheep, goats; timber

Exports: $55 million (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Exports - commodities: diamonds, iron ore, rubber, timber, coffee,
cocoa

Exports - partners: Belgium 53%, Switzerland 9%, US 6%, France 4%
(1999)

Imports: $170 million (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Imports - commodities: fuels, chemicals, machinery, transportation
equipment, manufactured goods; rice and other foodstuffs

Imports - partners: South Korea 30%, Italy 24%, Japan 15%, Germany
9% (1999)

Debt - external: $3 billion (1999 est.)

Economic aid - recipient: $200 million pledged (1998)

Currency: Liberian dollar (LRD)

Currency code: LRD

Exchange rates: Liberian dollars per US dollar - 39.8100 (December
2000), 41.0483 (2000), 41.9025 (1999), 41.5075 (1998), 1.0000
(officially fixed rate 1940-97); market exchange rate: Liberian
dollars per US dollar - 40 (December 1998), 50 (October 1995)

note:  until December 1997, rates were based on a fixed relationship
with the US dollar; beginning in January 1998, rates are market
determined

Fiscal year: calendar year



Liberia    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 6,000 (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 0 (1995)

Telephone system: general assessment:  telephone and telegraph
service via microwave radio relay network; main center is Monrovia

domestic:  NA

international:  satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 0, FM 6, shortwave 4 (1999)

Radios: 790,000 (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 2 (plus four low-power repeaters)
(2000)

Televisions: 70,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .lr

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 1 (2000)

Internet users: 300 (2000)



Liberia    Transportation

Railways: total:  490 km (328 km single track); note - three rail
systems owned and operated by foreign steel and financial interests
in conjunction with the Liberian Government; one of these, the Lamco
Railroad, closed in 1989 after iron ore production ceased; the other
two were shut down by the civil war; large sections of the rail
lines have been dismantled; approximately 60 km of railroad track
was exported for scrap

standard gauge:  345 km 1.435-m gauge

narrow gauge:  145 km 1.067-m gauge

Highways: total:  10,600 km

paved:  657 km

unpaved:  9,943 km

note:  (there is major deterioration on all highways due to heavy
rains and lack of maintenance) (1996 est.)

Waterways: none

Ports and harbors: Buchanan, Greenville, Harper, Monrovia

Merchant marine: total:  1,478 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
49,456,361 GRT/76,620,648 DWT

ships by type:  barge carrier 3, bulk 324, cargo 97, chemical tanker
163, combination bulk 20, combination ore/oil 38, container 245,
liquefied gas 97, multi-functional large-load carrier 4, passenger
24, petroleum tanker 310, refrigerated cargo 74, roll on/roll off
19, short-sea passenger 3, specialized tanker 12, vehicle carrier 45

note:  includes some foreign-owned ships registered here as a flag
of convenience: Argentina 8, Australia 1, Ashmore and Cartier
Islands 1, Austria 5, Bermuda 5, Belgium 5, Burma 1, Brazil 8,
Canada 1, China 28, Chile 7, Costa Rica 8, Cyprus 27, Denmark 4,
Ecuador 1, Germany 117, Greece 83, Hong Kong 54, Croatia 9,
Indonesia 2, India 8, Israel 1, Italy 8, Japan 85, South Korea 8,
Latvia 15, Monaco 28, Mexico 6, Malaysia 1, Nigeria 1, Netherlands
7, Norway 86, Netherlands Antilles 1, NZ 1, Poland 2, Portugal 2,
Philippines 1, Russia 22, Saudi Arabia 20, South Africa 1, Slovenia
1, Singapore 30, Spain 1, Sweden 8, Switzerland 23, UAE 5, Taiwan
10, UK 15, US 85, Uruguay 1, Vietnam 1 (2000 est.)

Airports: 46 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  2

over 3,047 m:  1

1,524 to 2,437 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  44

1,524 to 2,437 m:  3

914 to 1,523 m:  5

under 914 m:  36 (2000 est.)



Liberia    Military

Military branches: Army, Air Force, Navy

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  715,753 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
385,460 (2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $1 million (FY98)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 2% (FY98)



Liberia    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: large refugee population from civil war in
Sierra Leone

Illicit drugs: increasingly a transshipment point for Southeast and
Southwest Asian heroin and South American cocaine for the European
and US markets

======================================================================

@Libya




Libya    Introduction

Background: Since he took power in a 1969 military coup, Col.
Muammar Abu Minyar al-QADHAFI has espoused his own political system
- a combination of socialism and Islam - which he calls the Third
International Theory. Viewing himself as a revolutionary leader, he
used oil funds during the 1970s and 1980s to promote his ideology
outside Libya, even supporting subversives and terrorists abroad to
hasten the end of Marxism and capitalism. Libyan military adventures
failed, e.g., the prolonged foray of Libyan troops into the Aozou
Strip in northern Chad was finally repulsed in 1987. Libyan support
for terrorism decreased after UN sanctions were imposed in 1992.
Those sanctions were suspended in April 1999.



Libya    Geography

Location: Northern Africa, bordering the Mediterranean Sea, between
Egypt and Tunisia

Geographic coordinates: 25 00 N, 17 00 E

Map references: Africa

Area: total:  1,759,540 sq km

land:  1,759,540 sq km

water:  0 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly larger than Alaska

Land boundaries: total:  4,383 km

border countries:  Algeria 982 km, Chad 1,055 km, Egypt 1,150 km,
Niger 354 km, Sudan 383 km, Tunisia 459 km

Coastline: 1,770 km

Maritime claims: territorial sea:  12 NM

note:  Gulf of Sidra closing line - 32 degrees, 30 minutes north

Climate: Mediterranean along coast; dry, extreme desert interior

Terrain: mostly barren, flat to undulating plains, plateaus,
depressions

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Sabkhat Ghuzayyil -47 m

highest point:  Bikku Bitti 2,267 m

Natural resources: petroleum, natural gas, gypsum

Land use: arable land:  1%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  8%

forests and woodland:  0%

other:  91% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 4,700 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: hot, dry, dust-laden ghibli is a southern wind
lasting one to four days in spring and fall; dust storms, sandstorms

Environment - current issues: desertification; very limited natural
fresh water resources; the Great Manmade River Project, the largest
water development scheme in the world, is being built to bring water
from large aquifers under the Sahara to coastal cities

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Climate Change,
Desertification, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands

signed, but not ratified:  Biodiversity, Law of the Sea, Nuclear
Test Ban



Libya    People

Population: 5,240,599

note:  includes 662,669 non-nationals, of which an estimated 500,000
or more are Africans living in Libya (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  35.41% (male 947,645; female 907,854)

15-64 years:  60.64% (male 1,645,085; female 1,533,066)

65 years and over:  3.95% (male 101,701; female 105,248) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 2.42% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 27.67 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 3.51 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1.07 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.97 male(s)/female

total population:  1.06 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 28.99 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  75.65 years

male:  73.53 years

female:  77.88 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 3.64 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 0.05% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: NA

HIV/AIDS - deaths: NA

Nationality: noun:  Libyan(s)

adjective:  Libyan

Ethnic groups: Berber and Arab 97%, Greeks, Maltese, Italians,
Egyptians, Pakistanis, Turks, Indians, Tunisians

Religions: Sunni Muslim 97%

Languages: Arabic, Italian, English, all are widely understood in
the major cities

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  76.2%

male:  87.9%

female:  63% (1995 est.)



Libya    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Great Socialist People's
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya

conventional short form:  Libya

local long form:  Al Jumahiriyah al Arabiyah al Libiyah ash Shabiyah
al Ishtirakiyah al Uzma

local short form:  none

Government type: Jamahiriya (a state of the masses) in theory,
governed by the populace through local councils; in fact, a military
dictatorship

Capital: Tripoli

Administrative divisions: 25 municipalities (baladiyat, singular -
baladiyah); Ajdabiya, Al 'Aziziyah, Al Fatih, Al Jabal al Akhdar, Al
Jufrah, Al Khums, Al Kufrah, An Nuqat al Khams, Ash Shati', Awbari,
Az Zawiyah, Banghazi, Darnah, Ghadamis, Gharyan, Misratah, Murzuq,
Sabha, Sawfajjin, Surt, Tarabulus, Tarhunah, Tubruq, Yafran, Zlitan;
note - the 25 municipalities may have been replaced by 13 regions

Independence: 24 December 1951 (from Italy)

National holiday: Revolution Day, 1 September (1969)

Constitution: 11 December 1969, amended 2 March 1977

Legal system: based on Italian civil law system and Islamic law;
separate religious courts; no constitutional provision for judicial
review of legislative acts; has not accepted compulsory ICJ
jurisdiction

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal and compulsory

Executive branch: chief of state:  Revolutionary Leader Col. Muammar
Abu Minyar al-QADHAFI (since 1 September 1969); note - holds no
official title, but is de facto chief of state

head of government:  Secretary of the General People's Committee
(Premier) Mubarak al-SHAMEKH (since 2 March 2000)

cabinet:  General People's Committee established by the General
People's Congress

elections:  national elections are indirect through a hierarchy of
people's committees; head of government elected by the General
People's Congress; election last held 2 March 2000 (next to be held
NA)

election results:  Mubarak al-SHAMEKH elected premier; percent of
General People's Congress vote - NA%

Legislative branch: unicameral General People's Congress (NA seats;
members elected indirectly through a hierarchy of people's
committees)

Judicial branch: Supreme Court

Political parties and leaders: none

Political pressure groups and leaders: various Arab nationalist
movements with almost negligible memberships may be functioning
clandestinely, as well as some Islamic elements

International organization participation: ABEDA, AfDB, AFESD, AL,
AMF, AMU, CAEU, CCC, ECA, FAO, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICRM, IDA,
IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat, Interpol,
IOC, ISO, ITU, MONUC, NAM, OAPEC, OAU, OIC, OPEC, UN, UNCTAD,
UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO

Diplomatic representation in the US: Libya does not have an embassy
in the US

Diplomatic representation from the US: the US suspended all embassy
activities in Tripoli on 2 May 1980

Flag description: plain green; green is the traditional color of
Islam (the state religion)



Libya    Economy

Economy - overview: The socialist-oriented economy depends primarily
upon revenues from the oil sector, which contributes practically all
export earnings and about one-quarter of GDP. These oil revenues and
a small population give Libya one of the highest per capita GDPs in
Africa, but little of this income flows down to the lower orders of
society. In this statist society, import restrictions and
inefficient resource allocations have led to periodic shortages of
basic goods and foodstuffs. The nonoil manufacturing and
construction sectors, which account for about 20% of GDP, have
expanded from processing mostly agricultural products to include the
production of petrochemicals, iron, steel, and aluminum. Climatic
conditions and poor soils severely limit agricultural output, and
Libya imports about 75% of its food requirements. Higher oil prices
in 1999 and 2000 led to an increase in export revenues, which
improved macroeconomic balances and helped to stimulate the economy.
Following the suspension of UN sanctions in 1999, Libya has been
trying to increase its attractiveness to foreign investors, and
several foreign companies have visited in search of contracts.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $45.4 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 6.5% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $8,900 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  7%

industry:  47%

services:  46% (1997 est.)

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 18.5% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 1.5 million (2000 est.)

Labor force - by occupation: services and government 54%, industry
29%, agriculture 17% (1997 est.)

Unemployment rate: 30% (2000 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $6.85 billion

expenditures:  $4.4 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
(2000 est.)

Industries: petroleum, food processing, textiles, handicrafts, cement

Industrial production growth rate: NA%

Electricity - production: 18.9 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  100%

hydro:  0%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 17.577 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: wheat, barley, olives, dates, citrus,
vegetables, peanuts, soybeans; cattle

Exports: $13.9 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Exports - commodities: crude oil, refined petroleum products

Exports - partners: Italy 33%, Germany 24%, Spain 10%, France 5%,
Turkey 4%, Tunisia 4% (1999)

Imports: $7.6 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Imports - commodities: machinery, transport equipment, food,
manufactured goods

Imports - partners: Italy 24%, Germany 12%, Tunisia 9%, UK 7%,
France 6%, South Korea 5% (1999)

Debt - external: $4.1 billion (2000 est.)

Economic aid - recipient: $8.4 million (1995)

Currency: Libyan dinar (LYD)

Currency code: LYD

Exchange rates: Libyan dinars per US dollar - 0.5101 (January 2001),
0.5081 (2000), 0.4616 (1999), 0.3785 (1998), 0.3891 (1997), 0.3651
(1996)

note:  Libya currently has two rates for foreign trade; one for
government operations and foreign companies and one for Libyan
individuals (0.45 dinars per US dollar in December 1998)

Fiscal year: calendar year



Libya    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 380,000 (1996)

Telephones - mobile cellular: NA

Telephone system: general assessment:  telecommunications system is
being modernized; mobile cellular telephone system became
operational in 1996

domestic:  microwave radio relay, coaxial cable, cellular,
tropospheric scatter, and a domestic satellite system with 14 earth
stations

international:  satellite earth stations - 4 Intelsat, NA Arabsat,
and NA Intersputnik; submarine cables to France and Italy; microwave
radio relay to Tunisia and Egypt; tropospheric scatter to Greece;
participant in Medarabtel (1999)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 17, FM 4, shortwave 3 (1998)

Radios: 1.35 million (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 12 (plus one low-power repeater)
(1998)

Televisions: 730,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .ly

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 1 (2000)

Internet users: 7,500 (2000)



Libya    Transportation

Railways: note:  Libya has had no railroad in operation since 1965,
all previous systems having been dismantled; current plans are to
construct a 1.435-m standard gauge line from the Tunisian frontier
to Tripoli and Misratah, then inland to Sabha, center of a
mineral-rich area, but there has been little progress; other plans
made jointly with Egypt would establish a rail line from As Sallum,
Egypt, to Tobruk with completion originally set for mid-1994; Libya
signed contracts with two private companies - Bahne of Egypt and Jez
Sistemas Ferroviarios of Spain - in 1998 for the supply of crossings
and pointwork (1001)

Highways: total:  24,484 km

paved:  6,800 km

unpaved:  17,684 km (1996)

Waterways: none

Pipelines: crude oil 4,383 km; petroleum products 443 km (includes
liquefied petroleum gas or LPG 256 km); natural gas 1,947 km

Ports and harbors: Al Khums, Banghazi, Darnah, Marsa al Burayqah,
Misratah, Ra's Lanuf, Tobruk, Tripoli, Zuwarah

Merchant marine: total:  28 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
399,725 GRT/654,843 DWT

ships by type:  cargo 10, chemical tanker 1, liquefied gas 3,
petroleum tanker 6, roll on/roll off 4, short-sea passenger 4 (2000
est.)

Airports: 136 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  58

over 3,047 m:  23

2,438 to 3,047 m:  6

1,524 to 2,437 m:  22

914 to 1,523 m:  5

under 914 m:  2 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  78

over 3,047 m:  4

2,438 to 3,047 m:  2

1,524 to 2,437 m:  14

914 to 1,523 m:  40

under 914 m:  18 (2000 est.)



Libya    Military

Military branches: Army, Navy, Air and Air Defense Command

Military manpower - military age: 17 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  1,459,400 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
866,012 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  61,694
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $1.3 billion (FY99/00)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 3.9% (FY99/00)



Libya    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: Libya claims about 19,400 sq km in
northern Niger and also a part of southeastern Algeria

======================================================================

@Liechtenstein




Liechtenstein    Introduction

Background: The Principality of Liechtenstein was established within
the Holy Roman Empire in 1719; it became a sovereign state in 1806.
Until the end of World War I, it was closely tied to Austria, but
the economic devastation caused by that conflict forced
Liechtenstein to conclude a customs and monetary union with
Switzerland. Since World War II (in which Liechtenstein remained
neutral) the country's low taxes have spurred outstanding economic
growth. However, shortcomings in banking regulatory oversight have
resulted in concerns about the use of the financial institutions for
money laundering.



Liechtenstein    Geography

Location: Central Europe, between Austria and Switzerland

Geographic coordinates: 47 10 N, 9 32 E

Map references: Europe

Area: total:  160 sq km

land:  160 sq km

water:  0 sq km

Area - comparative: about 0.9 times the size of Washington, DC

Land boundaries: total:  76 km

border countries:  Austria 35 km, Switzerland 41 km

Coastline: 0 km (landlocked)

Maritime claims: none (landlocked)

Climate: continental; cold, cloudy winters with frequent snow or
rain; cool to moderately warm, cloudy, humid summers

Terrain: mostly mountainous (Alps) with Rhine Valley in western third

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Ruggeller Riet 430 m

highest point:  Grauspitz 2,599 m

Natural resources: hydroelectric potential, arable land

Land use: arable land:  24%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  16%

forests and woodland:  35%

other:  25% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: NA sq km

Natural hazards: NA

Environment - current issues: NA

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Air Pollution,
Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air Pollution-Sulphur 85, Air
Pollution-Sulphur 94, Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds,
Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species,
Hazardous Wastes, Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands

signed, but not ratified:  Air Pollution-Persistent Organic
Pollutants, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Law of the Sea

Geography - note: along with Uzbekistan, one of only two doubly
landlocked countries in the world; variety of microclimatic
variations based on elevation



Liechtenstein    People

Population: 32,528 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  18.41% (male 2,992; female 2,996)

15-64 years:  70.6% (male 11,455; female 11,511)

65 years and over:  10.99% (male 1,439; female 2,135) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 0.98% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 11.53 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 6.7 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 4.98 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.01 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.67 male(s)/female

total population:  0.95 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 4.99 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  78.95 years

male:  75.32 years

female:  82.6 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 1.5 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: NA%

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: NA

HIV/AIDS - deaths: NA

Nationality: noun:  Liechtensteiner(s)

adjective:  Liechtenstein

Ethnic groups: Alemannic 87.5%, Italian, Turkish, and other 12.5%

Religions: Roman Catholic 80%, Protestant 7.4%, unknown 7.7%, other
4.9% (1996)

Languages: German (official), Alemannic dialect

Literacy: definition:  age 10 and over can read and write

total population:  100%

male:  100%

female:  100% (1981 est.)



Liechtenstein    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Principality of Liechtenstein

conventional short form:  Liechtenstein

local long form:  Fuerstentum Liechtenstein

local short form:  Liechtenstein

Government type: hereditary constitutional monarchy

Capital: Vaduz

Administrative divisions: 11 communes (gemeinden, singular -
gemeinde); Balzers, Eschen, Gamprin, Mauren, Planken, Ruggell,
Schaan, Schellenberg, Triesen, Triesenberg, Vaduz

Independence: 23 January 1719 Imperial Principality of Liechtenstein
established; 12 July 1806 established independence from the Holy
Roman Empire

National holiday: Assumption Day, 15 August

Constitution: 5 October 1921

Legal system: local civil and penal codes; accepts compulsory ICJ
jurisdiction, with reservations

Suffrage: 20 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  Prince HANS ADAM II (since 13
November 1989, assumed executive powers 26 August 1984); Heir
Apparent Prince ALOIS, son of the monarch (born 11 June 1968)

head of government:  Head of Government Mario FRICK (since 15
December 1993) and Deputy Head of Government Michael RITTER (since 2
February 1997)

cabinet:  Cabinet elected by the Diet; confirmed by the monarch

elections:  none; the monarch is hereditary; following legislative
elections, the leader of the majority party in the Diet is usually
appointed the head of government by the monarch and the leader of
the largest minority party in the Diet is usually appointed the
deputy head of government by the monarch

Legislative branch: unicameral Diet or Landtag (25 seats; members
are elected by direct popular vote under proportional representation
to serve four-year terms)

elections:  last held on 9-11 February 2001 (next to be held by NA
2005)

election results:  percent of vote by party - FBP 49.90%, VU 41.35%,
FL 8.71%; seats by party - FBP 13, VU 11, FL 1

Judicial branch: Supreme Court or Oberster Gerichtshof; Superior
Court or Obergericht

Political parties and leaders: Fatherland Union or VU [Dr. Oswald
KRANZ]; Progressive Citizens' Party or FBP [Dr. Ernst WALCH]; The
Free List or FL [Dr. Pepo FRICK, Karin JENNY, Rene HASLER]

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: CE, EBRD, ECE, EFTA, IAEA,
ICRM, IFRCS, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, ITU, OPCW, OSCE, UN, UNCTAD,
UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WHO (observer), WIPO, WTrO

Diplomatic representation in the US: Liechtenstein's Ambassador to
the US, Claudia FRITSCHE, is dually accredited to the UN in New York

Diplomatic representation from the US: the US does not have an
embassy in Liechtenstein, but the US Ambassador to Switzerland is
also accredited to Liechtenstein

Flag description: two equal horizontal bands of blue (top) and red
with a gold crown on the hoist side of the blue band



Liechtenstein    Economy

Economy - overview: Despite its small size and limited natural
resources, Liechtenstein has developed into a prosperous, highly
industrialized, free-enterprise economy with a vital financial
service sector and living standards on a par with the urban areas of
its large European neighbors. Low business taxes - the maximum tax
rate is 18% - and easy incorporation rules have induced 73,700
holding or so-called letter box companies to establish nominal
offices in Liechtenstein, providing 30% of state revenues. The
country participates in a customs union with Switzerland and uses
the Swiss franc as its national currency. It imports more than 90%
of its energy requirements. Liechtenstein has been a member of the
European Economic Area (an organization serving as a bridge between
European Free Trade Association (EFTA) and EU) since May 1995. The
government is working to harmonize its economic policies with those
of an integrated Europe.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $730 million (1998 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: NA%

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $23,000 (1998 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  NA%

industry:  NA%

services:  NA%

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 0.5% (1997 est.)

Labor force: 22,891 of which 13,847 are foreigners; 8,231 commute
from Austria and Switzerland to work each day

Labor force - by occupation: industry, trade, and building 45%,
services 53%, agriculture, fishing, forestry, and horticulture 2%
(1997 est.)

Unemployment rate: 1.8% (February 1999)

Budget: revenues:  $424.2 million

expenditures:  $414.1 million, including capital expenditures of $NA
(1998 est.)

Industries: electronics, metal manufacturing, textiles, ceramics,
pharmaceuticals, food products, precision instruments, tourism

Industrial production growth rate: NA%

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  NA%

hydro:  NA%

nuclear:  NA%

other:  NA%

Electricity - consumption: NA kWh

Electricity - exports: NA kWh

Electricity - imports: NA kWh

Agriculture - products: wheat, barley, corn, potatoes; livestock,
dairy products

Exports: $2.47 billion (1996)

Exports - commodities: small specialty machinery, dental products,
stamps, hardware, pottery

Exports - partners: EU and EFTA countries 60.57% (Switzerland 15.7%)
(1995)

Imports: $917.3 million (1996)

Imports - commodities: machinery, metal goods, textiles, foodstuffs,
motor vehicles

Imports - partners: EU countries, Switzerland (1996)

Debt - external: $0 (1996)

Economic aid - recipient: none

Currency: Swiss franc (CHF)

Currency code: CHF

Exchange rates: Swiss francs per US dollar - 1.6303 (January 2001),
1.6888 (2000), 1.5022 (1999), 1.4498 (1998), 1.4513 (1997), 1.2360
(1996)

Fiscal year: calendar year



Liechtenstein    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 20,000 (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: NA

Telephone system: general assessment:  automatic telephone system

domestic:  NA

international:  linked to Swiss networks by cable and microwave
radio relay

Radio broadcast stations: AM 0, FM 4, shortwave 0 (1998)

Radios: 21,000 (1997)

Television broadcast stations: NA (linked to Swiss networks) (1997)

Televisions: 12,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .li

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 44 (Liechtenstein and
Switzerland) (2000)

Internet users: NA



Liechtenstein    Transportation

Railways: total:  18.5 km; note - owned, operated, and included in
statistics of Austrian Federal Railways

standard gauge:  18.5 km 1.435-m gauge (electrified)

Highways: total:  250 km

paved:  250 km

unpaved:  0 km

Waterways: none

Ports and harbors: none

Airports: none



Liechtenstein    Military

Military - note: defense is the responsibility of Switzerland



Liechtenstein    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: Liechtenstein's royal family claims
restitution for 1,600 sq km of land in the Czech Republic
confiscated in 1918

Illicit drugs: multilateral organizations engaged in issuing
international guidelines for financial sector oversight have found
gaps in Liechtenstein's financial services controls that make it
vulnerable to money laundering

======================================================================

@Lithuania




Lithuania    Introduction

Background: Independent between the two World Wars, Lithuania was
annexed by the USSR in 1940. On 11 March 1990, Lithuania became the
first of the Soviet republics to declare its independence, but this
proclamation was not generally recognized until September of 1991
(following the abortive coup in Moscow). The last Russian troops
withdrew in 1993. Lithuania subsequently has restructured its
economy for eventual integration into Western European institutions.



Lithuania    Geography

Location: Eastern Europe, bordering the Baltic Sea, between Latvia
and Russia

Geographic coordinates: 56 00 N, 24 00 E

Map references: Europe

Area: total:  65,200 sq km

land:  65,200 sq km

water:  0 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly larger than West Virginia

Land boundaries: total:  1,273 km

border countries:  Belarus 502 km, Latvia 453 km, Poland 91 km,
Russia (Kaliningrad) 227 km

Coastline: 99 km

Maritime claims: territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: transitional, between maritime and continental; wet,
moderate winters and summers

Terrain: lowland, many scattered small lakes, fertile soil

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Baltic Sea 0 m

highest point:  Juozapines/Kalnas 292 m

Natural resources: peat, arable land

Land use: arable land:  39%

permanent crops:  9%

permanent pastures:  6%

forests and woodland:  31%

other:  15% (2001 est.)

Irrigated land: 430 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: NA

Environment - current issues: contamination of soil and groundwater
with petroleum products and chemicals at military bases

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Hazardous Wastes, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship
Pollution, Wetlands

signed, but not ratified:  Air Pollution-Persistent Organic
Pollutants, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol



Lithuania    People

Population: 3,610,535 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  18.75% (male 345,694; female 331,125)

15-64 years:  67.69% (male 1,181,119; female 1,262,872)

65 years and over:  13.56% (male 165,732; female 323,993) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: -0.27% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 10 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 12.86 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 0.15 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  0.94 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.51 male(s)/female

total population:  0.88 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 14.5 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  69.25 years

male:  63.3 years

female:  75.5 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 1.37 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 0.02% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: less than 500 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: less than 100 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Lithuanian(s)

adjective:  Lithuanian

Ethnic groups: Lithuanian 80.6%, Russian 8.7%, Polish 7%,
Byelorussian 1.6%, other 2.1%

Religions: Roman Catholic (primarily), Lutheran, Russian Orthodox,
Protestant, Evangelical Christian Baptist, Muslim, Jewish

Languages: Lithuanian (official), Polish, Russian

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  98%

male:  99%

female:  98% (1989 est.)



Lithuania    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Republic of Lithuania

conventional short form:  Lithuania

local long form:  Lietuvos Respublika

local short form:  Lietuva

former:  Lithuanian Soviet Socialist Republic

Government type: parliamentary democracy

Capital: Vilnius

Administrative divisions: 44 regions (rajonai, singular - rajonas)
and 11 municipalities*: Akmenes Rajonas, Alytaus Rajonas, Alytus*,
Anyksciu Rajonas, Birstonas*, Birzu Rajonas, Druskininkai*,
Ignalinos Rajonas, Jonavos Rajonas, Joniskio Rajonas, Jurbarko
Rajonas, Kaisiadoriu Rajonas, Kaunas*, Kauno Rajonas, Kedainiu
Rajonas, Kelmes Rajonas, Klaipeda*, Klaipedos Rajonas, Kretingos
Rajonas, Kupiskio Rajonas, Lazdiju Rajonas, Marijampole*,
Marijampoles Rajonas, Mazeikiu Rajonas, Moletu Rajonas, Neringa*
Pakruojo Rajonas, Palanga*, Panevezio Rajonas, Panevezys*, Pasvalio
Rajonas, Plunges Rajonas, Prienu Rajonas, Radviliskio Rajonas,
Raseiniu Rajonas, Rokiskio Rajonas, Sakiu Rajonas, Salcininku
Rajonas, Siauliai*, Siauliu Rajonas, Silales Rajonas, Silutes
Rajonas, Sirvintu Rajonas, Skuodo Rajonas, Svencioniu Rajonas,
Taurages Rajonas, Telsiu Rajonas, Traku Rajonas, Ukmerges Rajonas,
Utenos Rajonas, Varenos Rajonas, Vilkaviskio Rajonas, Vilniaus
Rajonas, Vilnius*, Zarasu Rajonas

Independence: 11 March 1990 (independence declared from Soviet
Union); 6 September 1991 (Soviet Union recognizes Lithuania's
independence)

National holiday: Independence Day, 16 February (1918); note - 16
February 1918 is the date of independence from German, Austrian,
Prussian, and Russian occupation, 11 March 1990 is the date of
independence from the Soviet Union

Constitution: adopted 25 October 1992

Legal system: based on civil law system; no judicial review of
legislative acts

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Valdas ADAMKUS (since
26 February 1998)

head of government:  Premier Algirdas BRAZAUSKAS (since 3 July 2001)

cabinet:  Council of Ministers appointed by the president on the
nomination of the premier

elections:  president elected by popular vote for a five-year term;
election last held 21 December 1997 and 4 January 1998 (next to be
held NA 2002); premier appointed by the president on the approval of
the Parliament

election results:  Valdas ADAMKUS elected president; percent of vote
- Valdas ADAMKUS 50.4%, Arturas PAULAUSKAS 49.6%

Legislative branch: unicameral Parliament or Seimas (141 seats, 71
members are directly elected by popular vote, 70 are elected by
proportional representation; members serve four-year terms)

elections:  last held 8 October 2000 (next to be held NA October
2004)

election results:  percent of vote by party - Social Democratic
Coalition 31.1%, New Union/Social Liberals 19.6%, Liberal Union
17.2%, TS 8.6%, remaining parties all less than 5%; seats by party -
Social Democratic Coalition 52, Liberal Union 34, New Union/Social
Liberals 29, TS 9, Farmer's Party 4, Center Union 2, Poles'
Electoral Action 2, Modern Christian Democratic Union 1,
independents 3, others 5

Judicial branch: Supreme Court; Court of Appeal; judges for both
courts appointed by the Parliament

Political parties and leaders: Christian Democratic Party or LKDP
[Zigmas ZINKEVICIUS, chairman]; Electoral Action of Lithuanian Poles
[Valdemar TOMASZEVSKI, chairman]; Homeland Union/Conservative Party
or TS [Vytautas LANDSBERGIS, chairman]; Lithuanian Center Union or
LCS [Kestutis GLAVECKAS, chairman]; Lithuanian Farmer's Party or LUP
[Ramunas KARBAUSKIS, chairman]; Lithuanian Liberal Union [Rolandas
PAKSAS, chairman]; Lithuanian Social Democratic Coalition [Algirdas
BRAZAUSKAS, chairman] consists of the Lithuanian Democratic Labor
Party or LDDP, the Lithuanian Social Democratic Party or LSPD, and
New Democracy; Modern Christian Democratic Union [Vytautas BOGUSIS,
chairman]; New Union-Social Liberals [Arturas PAULAUSKAS, chairman]

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: ACCT (observer), BIS,
CBSS, CCC, CE, EAPC, EBRD, ECE, EU (applicant), FAO, IAEA, IBRD,
ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, ICRM, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Intelsat
(nonsignatory user), Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO (correspondent), ITU,
OPCW, OSCE, PFP, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNMIK, UPU, WCL, WEU (associate
partner), WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTrO (observer)

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Vygaudas USACKAS

chancery:  2622 16th Street NW, Washington, DC 20009

telephone:  [1] (202) 234-5860

FAX:  [1] (202) 328-0466

consulate(s) general:  Chicago and New York

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
John F. TEFFT

embassy:  Akmenu 6, 2600 Vilnius

mailing address:  American Embassy, Vilnius, PSC 78, Box V, APO AE
09723

telephone:  [370] (2) 223-031

FAX:  [370] (2) 227-236

Flag description: three equal horizontal bands of yellow (top),
green, and red



Lithuania    Economy

Economy - overview: Lithuania, the Baltic state that has conducted
the most trade with Russia, has been slowly rebounding from the 1998
Russian financial crisis. High unemployment and weak consumption
have held back recovery. GDP growth for 2000 - estimated at 2.9% -
fell behind that of Estonia and Latvia, and unemployment is
estimated at 10.8%, the country's highest since regaining
independence in 1990. For 2001, Lithuanians forecast 3.2% growth,
1.8% inflation, and a fiscal deficit of 3.3%. In early 2001, the
Lithuanian Government announced that it will repeg its currency, the
litas, to the euro (the litas is currently pegged to the dollar)
some time in 2002. Lithuania must ratify 25 agreements along with
other legal documents and obligations by 1 May 2001 before gaining
World Trade Organization membership. Lithuania was invited to the
Helsinki summit in December 1999 and began EU accession talks in
early 2000. Privatization of the large, state-owned utilities,
particularly in the energy sector, remains a key challenge for 2001.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $26.4 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 2.9% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $7,300 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  10%

industry:  33%

services:  57% (1999 est.)

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:
3.1%

highest 10%:  25.6% (1996)

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 1% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 2 million (2000 est.)

Labor force - by occupation: industry 30%, agriculture 20%, services
50% (1997 est.)

Unemployment rate: 10.8% (2000)

Budget: revenues:  $1.5 billion

expenditures:  $1.7 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
(1997 est.)

Industries: metal-cutting machine tools, electric motors, television
sets, refrigerators and freezers, petroleum refining, shipbuilding
(small ships), furniture making, textiles, food processing,
fertilizers, agricultural machinery, optical equipment, electronic
components, computers, amber

Industrial production growth rate: 2.3% (2000 est.)

Electricity - production: 13.567 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  23.89%

hydro:  3.43%

nuclear:  72.68%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 9.817 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 3.2 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 400 million kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: grain, potatoes, sugar beets, flax,
vegetables; beef, milk, eggs; fish

Exports: $3.7 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Exports - commodities: machinery and equipment 22%, mineral products
15%, chemicals 12%, textiles and clothing, foodstuffs (1999)

Exports - partners: Germany 15.8%, Latvia 12.6%, Russia 6.9%,
Belarus 5.8%, Denmark (1999)

Imports: $4.9 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Imports - commodities: machinery and equipment 18%, mineral products
16%, chemicals 10%, textiles and clothing 10%, transport equipment
7% (1999)

Imports - partners: Russia 20.4%, Germany 16.5%, Denmark 3.8%,
Belarus 2.2%, Latvia 2% (1999)

Debt - external: $2.5 billion (2000 est.)

Economic aid - recipient: $228.5 million (1995)

Currency: litas (LTL)

Currency code: LTL

Exchange rates: litai per US dollar - 4.000 (fixed rate since 1 May
1994); note - litai is the plural of litas

Fiscal year: calendar year



Lithuania    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 1.048 million (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 297,500 (November 1998)

Telephone system: general assessment:  inadequate, but is being
modernized to provide an improved international capability and
better residential access

domestic:  a national, fiber-optic cable, interurban, trunk system
is nearing completion; rural exchanges are being improved and
expanded; mobile cellular systems are being installed; access to the
Internet is available; still many unsatisfied telephone subscriber
applications

international:  landline connections to Latvia and Poland; major
international connections to Denmark, Sweden, and Norway by
submarine cable for further transmission by satellite

Radio broadcast stations: AM 3, FM 112, shortwave 1 (1998)

Radios: 1.9 million (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 20 (plus 30 repeaters) (1995)

Televisions: 1.7 million (1997)

Internet country code: .lt

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 14 (2000)

Internet users: 225,000 (2000)



Lithuania    Transportation

Railways: total:  2,002 km

broad gauge:  2,002 km 1.524-m gauge (122 km electrified) (1994)

Highways: total:  44,000 km

paved:  35,500 km

unpaved:  8,500 km (2000)

Waterways: 600 km (perennially navigable)

Pipelines: crude oil, 105 km; natural gas 760 km (1992)

Ports and harbors: Butinge, Kaunas, Klaipeda

Merchant marine: total:  50 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
293,168 GRT/327,827 DWT

ships by type:  cargo 26, combination bulk 10, petroleum tanker 2,
railcar carrier 1, refrigerated cargo 7, roll on/roll off 1,
short-sea passenger 3 (2000 est.)

Airports: 72 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  9

over 3,047 m:  2

1,524 to 2,437 m:  4

under 914 m:  3 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  63

1,524 to 2,437 m:  3

914 to 1,523 m:  5

under 914 m:  55 (2000 est.)



Lithuania    Military

Military branches: Ground Forces, Navy, Air and Air Defense Force,
Security Forces (internal and border troops), National Guard (Skat)

Military manpower - military age: 18 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  929,389 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
730,363 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  28,506
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $181 million (FY99)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 1.66% (FY00)



Lithuania    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: Latvia has not ratified a 1998 maritime
boundary agreement with Lithuania (primary concern is oil
exploration rights); 1997 border agreement with Russia not yet
ratified by Russia

Illicit drugs: transshipment point for opiates and other illicit
drugs from Southwest Asia, Latin America, and Western Europe to
Western Europe and Scandinavia; limited production of
methamphetamine and ecstasy

======================================================================

@Luxembourg




Luxembourg    Introduction

Background: Founded in 963, Luxembourg became a grand duchy in 1815
and an independent state under the Netherlands. It lost more than
half of its territory to Belgium in 1839, but gained a larger
measure of autonomy. Full independence was attained in 1867. Overrun
by Germany in both World Wars, it ended its neutrality in 1948 when
it entered into the Benelux Customs Union and when it joined NATO
the following year. In 1957, Luxembourg became one of the six
founding countries of the European Economic Community (later the
European Union) and in 1999 it joined the euro currency area.



Luxembourg    Geography

Location: Western Europe, between France and Germany

Geographic coordinates: 49 45 N, 6 10 E

Map references: Europe

Area: total:  2,586 sq km

land:  2,586 sq km

water:  0 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly smaller than Rhode Island

Land boundaries: total:  356 km

border countries:  Belgium 148 km, France 73 km, Germany 135 km

Coastline: 0 km (landlocked)

Maritime claims: none (landlocked)

Climate: modified continental with mild winters, cool summers

Terrain: mostly gently rolling uplands with broad, shallow valleys;
uplands to slightly mountainous in the north; steep slope down to
Moselle flood plain in the southeast

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Moselle River 133 m

highest point:  Buurgplaatz 559 m

Natural resources: iron ore (no longer exploited), arable land

Land use: arable land:  24%

permanent crops:  1%

permanent pastures:  20%

forests and woodland:  35%

other:  20%

Irrigated land: 10 sq km (including Belgium) (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: NA

Environment - current issues: air and water pollution in urban
areas, soil pollution of farmland

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Air Pollution,
Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air Pollution-Persistent Organic
Pollutants, Air Pollution-Sulphur 85, Air Pollution-Sulphur 94, Air
Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds, Biodiversity, Climate Change,
Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the
Sea, Marine Dumping, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship
Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands

signed, but not ratified:  Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol,
Environmental Modification

Geography - note: landlocked



Luxembourg    People

Population: 442,972 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  18.91% (male 43,051; female 40,711)

15-64 years:  67.03% (male 149,781; female 147,165)

65 years and over:  14.06% (male 24,921; female 37,343) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 1.26% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 12.25 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 8.88 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 9.26 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.07 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.06 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1.02 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.67 male(s)/female

total population:  0.97 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 4.77 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  77.3 years

male:  74.02 years

female:  80.8 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 1.7 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 0.16% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: NA

HIV/AIDS - deaths: less than 100 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Luxembourger(s)

adjective:  Luxembourg

Ethnic groups: Celtic base (with French and German blend),
Portuguese, Italian, Slavs (from Montenegro, Albania, and Kososvo)
and European (guest and resident workers)

Religions: the greatest preponderance of the population is Roman
Catholic with a very few Protestants, Jews, and Muslims

note:  1979 legislation forbids the collection of religious
statistics

Languages: Luxembourgish (national language), German (administrative
language), French (administrative language)

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  100%

male:  100%

female:  100% (2000 est.)



Luxembourg    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Grand Duchy of Luxembourg

conventional short form:  Luxembourg

local long form:  Grand Duche de Luxembourg

local short form:  Luxembourg

Government type: constitutional monarchy

Capital: Luxembourg

Administrative divisions: 3 districts; Diekirch, Grevenmacher,
Luxembourg

Independence: 1839 (from the Netherlands)

National holiday: National Day (Birthday of Grand Duchess Charlotte)
23 June

Constitution: 17 October 1868, occasional revisions

Legal system: based on civil law system; accepts compulsory ICJ
jurisdiction

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal and compulsory

Executive branch: chief of state:  Grand Duke HENRI (since 7 October
2000); Heir Apparent Prince GUILLAUME (son of the monarch, born 11
November 1981);

head of government:  Prime Minister Jean-Claude JUNCKER (since 1
January 1995) and Vice Prime Minister Lydie POLFER (since 7 August
1999)

cabinet:  Council of Ministers recommended by the prime minister and
appointed by the monarch

elections:  none; the monarch is hereditary; prime minister and vice
prime minister appointed by the monarch, following popular election
to the Chamber of Deputies; they are responsible to the Chamber of
Deputies

note:  government coalition - CSV and DP

Legislative branch: unicameral Chamber of Deputies or Chambre des
Deputes (60 seats; members are elected by direct popular vote to
serve five-year terms)

elections:  last held 13 June 1999 (next to be held by NA June 2004)

election results:  percent of vote by party - CSV 29.79%, DP 21.58%,
LSAP 23.75%, ADR 10.36%, Green Party 9.09%, the Left 3.77%; seats by
party - CSV 19, DP 15, LSAP 13, ADR 6, Green Party 5, the Left 2

note:  the Council of State or Conseil d'Etat, which has 21 members
who are appointed and dismissed by the Grand Duke based on proposals
from the government, the Chamber of Deputies, or the Council of
State, is an advisory body whose views are considered by the Chamber
of Deputies

Judicial branch: judicial courts and tribunals (3 Justices of the
Peace, 2 district courts, and 1 Supreme Court of Appeals);
administrative courts and tribunals (State Prosecutor's Office,
administrative courts and tribunals, and the Constitutional Court);
judges for all courts are appointed for life by the monarch

Political parties and leaders: Action Committee for Democracy and
Justice or ADR [Robert MEHLEN]; Christian Social People's Party or
CSV (known also as Christian Social Party or PCS) [Erna
HENNICOT-SCHOEPGES]; Democratic Party or DP [Lydie POLFER]; Green
Party [Abbes JACOBY and Felix BRAS]; Luxembourg Socialist Workers'
Party or LSAP [Jean ASSELBORN]; Marxist and Reformed Communist Party
DEI LENK (the Left) [no formal leadership]; other minor parties

Political pressure groups and leaders: ABBL (bankers' association);
ALEBA (financial sector trade union); Centrale Paysanne (federation
of agricultural producers); CEP (professional sector chamber); CGFP
(trade union representing civil service); Chambre de Commerce
(Chamber of Commerce); Chambre des Metiers (Chamber of Artisans);
FEDIL (federation of industrialists); LCGP (center-right trade
union); OGBL (center-left trade union)

International organization participation: ACCT, Australia Group,
Benelux, CCC, CE, EAPC, EBRD, ECE, EIB, EMU, EU, FAO, IAEA, IBRD,
ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IEA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO,
Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO, ITU, NATO, NEA, NSG, OECD, OPCW,
OSCE, PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WEU, WHO, WIPO, WMO,
WTrO, ZC

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Arlette CONZEMIUS

chancery:  2200 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone:  [1] (202) 265-4171

FAX:  [1] (202) 328-8270

consulate(s) general:  New York and San Francisco

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
James C. HORMEL

embassy:  22 Boulevard Emmanuel-Servais, L-2535 Luxembourg City

mailing address:  American Embassy Luxembourg, Unit 1410, APO AE
09126-1410 (official mail); American Embassy Luxembourg, PSC 9, Box
9500, APO AE 09123 (personal mail)

telephone:  [352] 46 01 23

FAX:  [352] 46 14 01

Flag description: three equal horizontal bands of red (top), white,
and light blue; similar to the flag of the Netherlands, which uses a
darker blue and is shorter; design was based on the flag of France



Luxembourg    Economy

Economy - overview: The stable, high-income economy features solid
growth, low inflation, and low unemployment. The industrial sector,
initially dominated by steel, has become increasingly diversified to
include chemicals, rubber, and other products. Growth in the
financial sector has more than compensated for the decline in steel.
Services, especially banking, account for a substantial proportion
of the economy. Agriculture is based on small family-owned farms.
The economy depends on foreign and trans-border workers for 30% of
its labor force. Luxembourg has a custom union with Belgium and the
Netherlands, and, as a member of the EU, enjoys the advantages of
the open European market. It joined with 10 other EU members to
launch the euro on 1 January 1999.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $15.9 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 5.7% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $36,400 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  1%

industry:  30%

services:  69% (2000 est.)

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 7.8% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 248,000 (of whom 70,200 are foreign cross-border
workers primarily from France, Belgium, and Germany) (2000)

Labor force - by occupation: services 83.2%, industry 14.3%,
agriculture 2.5% (1998 est.)

Unemployment rate: 2.7% (2000 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $5.6 billion

expenditures:  $5.6 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
(2000 est.)

Industries: banking, iron and steel, food processing, chemicals,
metal products, engineering, tires, glass, aluminum

Industrial production growth rate: 7.8% (2000 est.)

Electricity - production: 648 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  36.88%

hydro:  53.09%

nuclear:  0%

other:  10.03% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 6.149 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 655 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 6.201 billion kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: barley, oats, potatoes, wheat, fruits, wine
grapes; livestock products

Exports: $7.6 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Exports - commodities: machinery and equipment, steel products,
chemicals, rubber products, glass

Exports - partners: EU 75% (Germany 25%, France 21%, Belgium 13%, UK
8%, Italy 6%, Netherlands 5%), US 4% (1999)

Imports: $10 billion (c.i.f., 2000)

Imports - commodities: minerals, metals, foodstuffs, quality
consumer goods

Imports - partners: EU 81% (Belgium 35%, Germany 26%, France 12%,
Netherlands 4%), US 9% (1999)

Debt - external: $NA

Economic aid - donor: ODA, $160 million (1999)

Currency: Luxembourg franc (LUF); euro (EUR)

note:  on 1 January 1999, the EU introduced the euro as a common
currency that is now being used by financial institutions in
Luxembourg at a fixed rate of 40.3399 Luxembourg francs per euro and
will replace the local currency for all transactions in 2002

Currency code: LUF; EUR

Exchange rates: euros per US dollar - 1.0659 (January 2001), 1.0854
(2000), 0.9386 (1999); Luxembourg francs per US dollar - 34.77
(January 1999), 36.299 (1998), 35.774 (1997), 30.962 (1996); note -
the Luxembourg franc is at par with the Belgian franc, which
circulates freely in Luxembourg

Fiscal year: calendar year



Luxembourg    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 314,700 (1999)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 215,741 (2000)

Telephone system: general assessment:  highly developed, completely
automated and efficient system, mainly buried cables

domestic:  nationwide cellular telephone system; buried cable

international:  3 channels leased on TAT-6 coaxial submarine cable
(Europe to North America)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 2, FM 9, shortwave 2 (1999)

Radios: 285,000 (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 5 (1999)

Televisions: 285,000 (1998 est.)

Internet country code: .lu

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 8 (2000)

Internet users: 86,000 (1999)



Luxembourg    Transportation

Railways: total:  274 km

standard gauge:  274 km 1.435-m gauge (242 km electrified; 178 km
double track) (1998)

Highways: total:  5,166 km

paved:  5,166 km (including 118 km of expressways)

unpaved:  0 km (1999)

Waterways: 37 km (on the Moselle)

Pipelines: petroleum products 48 km

Ports and harbors: Mertert

Merchant marine: total:  50 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
988,450 GRT/1,313,498 DWT

ships by type:  bulk 2, chemical tanker 11, container 2, liquefied
gas 18, passenger 4, petroleum tanker 6, roll on/roll off 7

note:  includes some foreign-owned ships registered here as a flag
of convenience: Belgium 4 (2000 est.)

Airports: 2 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  1

over 3,047 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  1

under 914 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Heliports: 1 (2000 est.)



Luxembourg    Military

Military branches: Army; note - the government abolished the
Gendarmerie

Military manpower - military age: 19 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  112,714 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
92,817 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  2,565
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $131 million (FY98/99)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 1% (FY98/99)



Luxembourg    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

======================================================================

@Macau





Macau    Introduction

Background: Colonized by the Portuguese in the 16th century, Macau
was the first European settlement in the Far East. Pursuant to an
agreement signed by China and Portugal on 13 April 1987, Macau
became the Macau Special Administrative Region (SAR) of China on 20
December 1999. China has promised that, under its "one country, two
systems" formula, China's socialist economic system will not be
practiced in Macau and that Macau will enjoy a high degree of
autonomy in all matters except foreign and defense affairs.



Macau    Geography

Location: Eastern Asia, bordering the South China Sea and China

Geographic coordinates: 22 10 N, 113 33 E

Map references: Southeast Asia

Area: total:  21 sq km

land:  21 sq km

water:  0 sq km

Area - comparative: about 0.1 times the size of Washington, DC

Land boundaries: total:  0.34 km

border countries:  China 0.34 km

Coastline: 40 km

Maritime claims: not specified

Climate: subtropical; marine with cool winters, warm summers

Terrain: generally flat

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  South China Sea 0 m

highest point:  Coloane Alto 174 m

Natural resources: NEGL

Land use: arable land:  0%

permanent crops:  2%

permanent pastures:  0%

forests and woodland:  0%

other:  98% (1998 est.)

Irrigated land: NA sq km

Natural hazards: typhoons

Environment - current issues: NA

Geography - note: essentially urban; one causeway and two bridges
connect the two islands of Coloane and Taipa to the peninsula on
mainland



Macau    People

Population: 453,733 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  22.68% (male 53,291; female 49,615)

15-64 years:  70.08% (male 150,538; female 167,431)

65 years and over:  7.24% (male 13,287; female 19,571) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 1.79% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 12.36 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 3.71 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 9.25 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.07 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  0.9 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.68 male(s)/female

total population:  0.92 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 4.47 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  81.69 years

male:  78.88 years

female:  84.64 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 1.31 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: NA%

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: NA

HIV/AIDS - deaths: NA

Nationality: noun:  Chinese

adjective:  Chinese

Ethnic groups: Chinese 95%, Macanese (mixed Portuguese and Asian
ancestry), Portuguese, other

Religions: Buddhist 50%, Roman Catholic 15%, none and other 35%
(1997 est.)

Languages: Portuguese, Chinese (Cantonese)

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  90%

male:  93%

female:  86% (1981 est.)



Macau    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Macau Special Administrative
Region

conventional short form:  Macau

local long form:  Aomen Tebie Xingzhengqu (Chinese); Regiao
Administrativa Especial de Macau (Portuguese)

local short form:  Aomen (Chinese); Macau (Portuguese)

Dependency status: special administrative region of China

Government type: NA

Administrative divisions: none (special administrative region of
China)

Independence: none (special administrative region of China)

National holiday: National Day (Anniversary of the Founding of the
People's Republic of China), 1 October (1949); note - 20 December
1999 is celebrated as Macau Special Administrative Region
Establishment Day

Constitution: Basic Law, approved in March 1993 by China's National
People's Congress, is Macau's "mini-constitution"

Legal system: based on Portuguese civil law system

Suffrage: direct election 18 years of age, universal for permanent
residents living in Macau for the past seven years; indirect
election limited to organizations registered as "corporate voters"
(257 are currently registered) and a 300-member Election Committee
drawn from broad regional groupings, municipal organizations, and
central government bodies

Executive branch: chief of state:  President of China JIANG Zemin
(since 27 March 1993)

head of government:  Chief Executive Edmund HO Hau-wah (since 20
December 1999)

cabinet:  Executive Council consists of all five government
secretaries, three legislators, and two businessmen

elections:  NA

Legislative branch: unicameral Legislative Council or LEGCO (23
seats; 8 elected by popular vote, 8 by indirect vote, and 7
appointed by the chief executive; members serve four-year terms)

elections:  last held 22 September 1996 (next to be held by 15
October 2001)

election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
APPEM 2, UNIPRO 2, CODEM 1, UDM 1, UPD 1, ANMD 1

Judicial branch: The Court of Final Appeal in the Macau Special
Administrative Region

Political parties and leaders: the following is a listing of those
associations that participated in the last legislative elections:
Associacao de Novo Macau Democratico or ANMD [leader NA]; Associacao
Promotora para a Economia de Macau or APPEM [leader NA];
Convergencia para o Desenvolvimento or CODEM [leader NA]; Uniao
Geral para o Desenvolvimento de Macau or UDM [leader NA]; Uniao para
o Desenvolvimento or UPD [leader NA]; Uniao Promotora para o
Progresso or UNIPRO [leader NA]

note:  there are no formal political parties, but civic associations
are used instead

Political pressure groups and leaders: Catholic Church [Domingos
LAM, bishop]; Macau Society of Tourism and Entertainment or STDM
[Stanley HO, managing director]; Union for Democracy Development
[Antonio NG Kuok-cheong, leader]

International organization participation: CCC, ESCAP (associate),
IMO (associate), Interpol (subbureau), UNESCO (associate), WMO, WToO
(associate), WTrO

Diplomatic representation in the US: none (special administrative
region of China)

Diplomatic representation from the US: the US has no offices in
Macau, and US interests are monitored by the US Consulate General in
Hong Kong

Flag description: light green with a lotus flower above a stylized
bridge and water in white, beneath an arc of five gold, five-pointed
stars: one large in center of arc and four smaller



Macau    Economy

Economy - overview: The economy is based largely on tourism
(including gambling) and textile and fireworks manufacturing.
Efforts to diversify have spawned other small industries - toys,
artificial flowers, and electronics. The tourist sector has
accounted for roughly 25% of GDP, and the clothing industry has
provided about three-fourths of export earnings; the gambling
industry probably represents over 40% of GDP. More than 8 million
tourists visited Macau in 2000. Macau depends on China for most of
its food, fresh water, and energy imports. Japan and Hong Kong are
the main suppliers of raw materials and capital goods. Output
dropped 5% in 1998 and 3% in 1999, with a small 2% gain in 2000.
Macau reverted to Chinese administration on 20 December 1999. Gang
violence, a dark spot in the economy, probably will be reduced in
2000-01 to the advantage of the tourism sector.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $7.82 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 2% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $17,500 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  1%

industry:  25%

services:  74% (2000 est.)

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): -1.8% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 283,450 (1999)

Labor force - by occupation: restaurants and hotels 26%,
manufacturing 22%, other services 52% (2000 est.)

Unemployment rate: 6.6% (2000)

Budget: revenues:  $1.26 billion

expenditures:  $1.22 billion, including capital expenditures of $175
million (1999 est.)

Industries: clothing, textiles, toys, electronics, footwear,
tourism, gambling

Industrial production growth rate: NA%

Electricity - production: 1.355 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  100%

hydro:  0%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 1.422 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 3 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 165 million kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: rice, vegetables

Exports: $2.6 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Exports - commodities: textiles, clothing, toys, electronics,
cement, footwear, machinery

Exports - partners: US 47%, EU 30%, China 9.2%, Hong Kong 6.7% (1999)

Imports: $2.4 billion (c.i.f., 2000 est.)

Imports - commodities: raw materials, foodstuffs, capital goods,
fuels, consumer goods

Imports - partners: China 36%, Hong Kong 18%, EU 13%, Taiwan 10%,
Japan 7% (1999)

Debt - external: $1.7 billion (1997)

Economic aid - recipient: $NA

Currency: pataca (MOP)

Currency code: MOP

Exchange rates: patacas per US dollar - 8.033 (January 2001), 8.025
(2000), 7.990 (1999), 7.978 (1998), 7.974 (1997), 7.966 (1996); note
- linked to the Hong Kong dollar at the rate of 1.03 patacas per
Hong Kong dollar

Fiscal year: calendar year



Macau    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 176,837 (2000)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 120,957 (2000)

Telephone system: general assessment:  fairly modern communication
facilities maintained for domestic and international services

domestic:  NA

international:  HF radiotelephone communication facility; access to
international communications carriers provided via Hong Kong and
China; satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (Indian Ocean)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 0, FM 2, shortwave 0 (1998)

Radios: 160,000 (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 0 (receives Hong Kong broadcasts)
(1997)

Televisions: 49,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .mo

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 1 (2000)

Internet users: 40,000 (2000)



Macau    Transportation

Railways: 0 km

Highways: total:  50 km

paved:  50 km

unpaved:  0 km (2001)

Waterways: none

Ports and harbors: Macau

Merchant marine: none (2000 est.)

Airports: 1 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  1

over 3,047 m:  1 (2000 est.)



Macau    Military

Military branches: Macau garrison of China's People's Liberation
Army (PLA) includes about 500 troops

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  125,737 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
69,191 (2001 est.)

Military - note: responsibility for defense reverted to China on 20
December 1999



Macau    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

======================================================================

@Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic



Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of    Introduction Top of
Page

Background: International recognition of The Former Yugoslav
Republic of Macedonia's (FYROM) independence from Yugoslavia in 1991
was delayed by Greece's objection to the new state's use of what it
considered a Hellenic name and symbols. Greece finally lifted its
trade blockade in 1995, and the two countries agreed to normalize
relations, despite continued disagreement over FYROM's use of
"Macedonia." FYROM's large Albanian minority and the de facto
independence of neighboring Kosovo continue to be sources of ethnic
tension.



Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of    Geography

Location: Southeastern Europe, north of Greece

Geographic coordinates: 41 50 N, 22 00 E

Map references: Europe

Area: total:  25,333 sq km

land:  24,856 sq km

water:  477 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly larger than Vermont

Land boundaries: total:  748 km

border countries:  Albania 151 km, Bulgaria 148 km, Greece 228 km,
Yugoslavia 221 km

Coastline: 0 km (landlocked)

Maritime claims: none (landlocked)

Climate: warm, dry summers and autumns and relatively cold winters
with heavy snowfall

Terrain: mountainous territory covered with deep basins and valleys;
three large lakes, each divided by a frontier line; country bisected
by the Vardar River

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Vardar River 50 m

highest point:  Golem Korab (Maja e Korabit) 2,753 m

Natural resources: chromium, lead, zinc, manganese, tungsten,
nickel, low-grade iron ore, asbestos, sulfur, timber, arable land

Land use: arable land:  24%

permanent crops:  2%

permanent pastures:  25%

forests and woodland:  39%

other:  10% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 830 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: high seismic risks

Environment - current issues: air pollution from metallurgical plants

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Air Pollution,
Biodiversity, Climate Change, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes,
Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands

signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Geography - note: landlocked; major transportation corridor from
Western and Central Europe to Aegean Sea and Southern Europe to
Western Europe



Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of    People

Population: 2,046,209 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  22.92% (male 243,715; female 225,349)

15-64 years:  66.94% (male 688,484; female 681,225)

65 years and over:  10.14% (male 92,043; female 115,393) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 0.43% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 13.5 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 7.7 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: -1.54 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.08 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.08 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1.01 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.8 male(s)/female

total population:  1 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 12.95 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  74.02 years

male:  71.79 years

female:  76.43 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 1.79 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: less than 0.01% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: less than 100 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: less than 100 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Macedonian(s)

adjective:  Macedonian

Ethnic groups: Macedonian 66.6%, Albanian 22.7%, Turkish 4%, Roma
2.2%, Serb 2.1%, other 2.4% (1994)

Religions: Macedonian Orthodox 67%, Muslim 30%, other 3%

Languages: Macedonian 70%, Albanian 21%, Turkish 3%, Serbo-Croatian
3%, other 3%

Literacy: definition:  NA

total population:  NA%

male:  NA%

female:  NA%



Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  The Former Yugoslav Republic
of Macedonia

conventional short form:  none

local long form:  Republika Makedonija

local short form:  Makedonija

abbreviation:  FYROM

Government type: emerging democracy

Capital: Skopje

Administrative divisions: 123 municipalities (opstini, singular -
opstina); Aracinovo, Bac, Belcista, Berovo, Bistrica, Bitola,
Blatec, Bogdanci, Bogomila, Bogovinje, Bosilovo, Brvenica, Cair
(Skopje), Capari, Caska, Cegrane, Centar (Skopje), Centar Zupa,
Cesinovo, Cucer-Sandevo, Debar, Delcevo, Delogozdi, Demir Hisar,
Demir Kapija, Dobrusevo, Dolna Banjica, Dolneni, Dorce Petrov
(Skopje), Drugovo, Dzepciste, Gazi Baba (Skopje), Gevgelija,
Gostivar, Gradsko, Ilinden, Izvor, Jegunovce, Kamenjane, Karbinci,
Karpos (Skopje), Kavadarci, Kicevo, Kisela Voda (Skopje), Klecevce,
Kocani, Konce, Kondovo, Konopiste, Kosel, Kratovo, Kriva Palanka,
Krivogastani, Krusevo, Kuklis, Kukurecani, Kumanovo, Labunista,
Lipkovo, Lozovo, Lukovo, Makedonska Kamenica, Makedonski Brod,
Mavrovi Anovi, Meseista, Miravci, Mogila, Murtino, Negotino,
Negotino-Poloska, Novaci, Novo Selo, Oblesevo, Ohrid, Orasac,
Orizari, Oslomej, Pehcevo, Petrovec, Plasnia, Podares, Prilep,
Probistip, Radovis, Rankovce, Resen, Rosoman, Rostusa, Samokov,
Saraj, Sipkovica, Sopiste, Sopotnika, Srbinovo, Star Dojran,
Staravina, Staro Nagoricane, Stip, Struga, Strumica, Studenicani,
Suto Orizari (Skopje), Sveti Nikole, Tearce, Tetovo, Topolcani,
Valandovo, Vasilevo, Velesta, Veles, Vevcani, Vinica, Vitoliste,
Vranestica, Vrapciste, Vratnica, Vrutok, Zajas, Zelenikovo, Zileno,
Zitose, Zletovo, Zrnovci

note:  the seven municipalities followed by Skopje in parentheses
collectively constitute "greater Skopje"

Independence: 17 September 1991 (from Yugoslavia)

National holiday: Uprising Day, 2 August (1903)

Constitution: adopted 17 November 1991, effective 20 November 1991

note:  Democratic Party for Albanians (DPA), which is now a member
party of the government, is calling for a rewrite of the
constitution to declare ethnic Albanians a constituent national
group and allow for greater regional autonomy

Legal system: based on civil law system; judicial review of
legislative acts

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Boris TRAJKOVSKI (since
15 December 1999)

head of government:  Prime Minister Ljubco GEORGIEVSKI (since 30
November 1998)

cabinet:  Council of Ministers elected by the majority vote of all
the deputies in the Assembly; note - current cabinet formed by the
government coalition parties VMRO-DPMNE, LDP, and DPA

elections:  president elected by popular vote for a five-year term;
election last held 14 November 1999 (next to be held NA October
2004); prime minister elected by parliament; election last held NA
November 1998 (next to be held NA 2002)

election results:  Boris TRAJKOVSKI elected president on
second-round ballot; percent of vote - Boris TRAJKOVSKI 52.4%, Tito
PETKOVSKI 46.2%

Legislative branch: unicameral Assembly or Sobranje (120 seats - 85
members are elected by popular vote, 35 members come from lists of
candidates submitted by parties based on the percentage that parties
gain from the overall vote; all serve four-year terms)

elections:  last held 18 October and 1 November 1998 (next to be
held NA 2002)

election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
VMRO-DPMNE 43, SDSM 27, PDP 14, DA 13, DPA 11, VMRO-VMRO 6, LDP 4,
SP 1, Roma Party 1

Judicial branch: Constitutional Court; Judicial Court of the
Republic; judges for both courts are elected by the Judicial Council

Political parties and leaders: Democratic Alternative or DA [Vasil
TUPURKOVSKI, president]; Democratic Party for Albanians or DPA
[Arben XHAFERI, president]; Internal Macedonian Revolutionary
Organization - Democratic Party for Macedonian National Unity or
VMRO-DPMNE [Ljubcho GEORGIEVSKI, president]; Internal Macedonian
Revolutionary Organization-True Macedonian Reform Option or
VMRO-VMRO [Boris STOJMANOV]; Liberal Democratic Party or LDP [Risto
GUSTERVO]; Party for Democratic Prosperity or PDP [Imeri IMERI,
president]; Social-Democratic Alliance of Macedonia or SDSM (former
Communist Party) [Branko CRVENKOVSKI, president]; Socialist Party of
Macedonia or SP [Ljubisav IVANOV, president]; Union of Romanies of
Macedonia or SRM [leader NA]

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: ACCT (associate), BIS,
CCC, CE, CEI, EAPC, EBRD, ECE, FAO, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICRM, IDA,
IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Intelsat (nonsignatory user),
Interpol, IOC, IOM (observer), ISO, ITU, OPCW, OSCE, PFP, UN,
UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO
(observer)

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Ljubica Z. ACEVSKA

chancery:  3050 K Street, NW, Suite 210, Washington, DC 20007

telephone:  [1] (202) 337 3063

FAX:  [1] (202) 337-3093

consulate(s) general:  New York

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Michael M. EINIK

embassy:  Bul. Ilinden bb, 91000 Skopje

mailing address:  American Embassy Skopje, Department of State,
Washington, DC 20521-7120 (pouch)

telephone:  [389] (91) 116-180

FAX:  [389] (91) 117-103

Flag description: a rising yellow sun with eight rays extending to
the edges of the red field



Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of    Economy

Economy - overview: At independence in November 1991, Macedonia was
the least developed of the Yugoslav republics, producing a mere 5%
of the total federal output of goods and services. The collapse of
Yugoslavia ended transfer payments from the center and eliminated
advantages from inclusion in a de facto free trade area. An absence
of infrastructure, UN sanctions on its largest market Yugoslavia,
and a Greek economic embargo hindered economic growth until 1996.
GDP has subsequently increased each year, rising by 5% in 2000.
Successful privatization in 2000 boosted the country's reserves to
over $700 million. Also, the leadership demonstrated a continuing
commitment to economic reform, free trade, and regional integration.
Inflation jumped to 11% in 2000, largely due to higher oil prices.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $9 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 5% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $4,400 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  12%

industry:  25%

services:  63% (2000)

Population below poverty line: 25% (2000 est.)

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 11% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 1 million (1999 est.)

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture NA%, industry NA%, services
NA%

Unemployment rate: 32% (2000)

Budget: revenues:  $1.06 billion

expenditures:  $1 billion, including capital expenditures of $107
million (1996 est.)

Industries: coal, metallic chromium, lead, zinc, ferronickel,
textiles, wood products, tobacco

Industrial production growth rate: 3% (2000)

Electricity - production: 6.395 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  82.25%

hydro:  17.75%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 5.992 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 30 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 75 million kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: rice, tobacco, wheat, corn, millet, cotton,
sesame, mulberry leaves, citrus, vegetables; beef, pork, poultry,
mutton

Exports: $1.4 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Exports - commodities: food, beverages, tobacco; miscellaneous
manufactures, iron and steel

Exports - partners: Germany 22%, Yugoslavia 22%, US 12%, Greece 7%,
Italy 6% (2000)

Imports: $2 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Imports - commodities: machinery and equipment, chemicals, fuels;
food products

Imports - partners: Germany 13%, Ukraine 13%, Russia 10%, Yugoslavia
8%, Greece 8% (2000)

Debt - external: $1.4 billion (2000)

Economic aid - recipient: $100 million from the EU (2000)

Currency: Macedonian denar (MKD)

Currency code: MKD

Exchange rates: Macedonian denars per US dollar - 64.757 (January
2001), 65.904 (2000), 56.902 (1999), 54.462 (1998), 50.004 (1997),
39.981 (1996)

Fiscal year: calendar year

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of    Communications Top of
Page

Telephones - main lines in use: 408,000 (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 12,362 (1997)

Telephone system: general assessment:  NA

domestic:  NA

international:  NA

Radio broadcast stations: AM 29, FM 20, shortwave 0 (1998)

Radios: 410,000 (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 31 (plus 166 repeaters) (1995)

Televisions: 510,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .mk

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 6 (2000)

Internet users: 30,000 (2000)

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of    Transportation Top of
Page

Railways: total:  699 km

standard gauge:  699 km 1.435-m gauge (233 km electrified)

note:  a 56-km extension of the Kumanovo-Beljakovci line to the
Bulgarian border at Gyveshevo is under construction (2001)

Highways: total:  8,684 km

paved:  5,540 km (including 133 km of expressways)

unpaved:  3,144 km (1997)

Waterways: note:  lake transport only, on the Greek and Albanian
borders

Pipelines: 10 km

Ports and harbors: none

Airports: 16 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  10

2,438 to 3,047 m:  2

under 914 m:  8 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  6

914 to 1,523 m:  3

under 914 m:  3 (2000 est.)



Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of    Military

Military branches: Army (includes Air and Air Defense Forces),
Police Force

Military manpower - military age: 19 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  548,183 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
442,053 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  17,905
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $76.3 million (FY00/01)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 2.17% (FY00/01)

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of    Transnational Issues Top
  of Page

Disputes - international: dispute with Greece over its name;
February 2001 agreement with Yugoslavia settled alignment of
boundary, stipulating implementation within two years

Illicit drugs: increasing transshipment point for Southwest Asian
heroin and hashish; minor transit point for South American cocaine
destined for Europe

======================================================================

@Madagascar




Madagascar    Introduction

Background: Formerly an independent kingdom, Madagascar became a
French colony in 1886, but regained its independence in 1960. During
1992-93, free presidential and National Assembly elections were
held, ending 17 years of single-party rule. In 1997 in the second
presidential race, Didier RATSIRAKA, the leader during the 1970s and
1980s, was returned to the presidency.



Madagascar    Geography

Location: Southern Africa, island in the Indian Ocean, east of
Mozambique

Geographic coordinates: 20 00 S, 47 00 E

Map references: Africa

Area: total:  587,040 sq km

land:  581,540 sq km

water:  5,500 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly less than twice the size of Arizona

Land boundaries: 0 km

Coastline: 4,828 km

Maritime claims: contiguous zone:  24 NM

continental shelf:  200 NM or 100 NM from the 2,500-m deep isobath

exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: tropical along coast, temperate inland, arid in south

Terrain: narrow coastal plain, high plateau and mountains in center

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Indian Ocean 0 m

highest point:  Maromokotro 2,876 m

Natural resources: graphite, chromite, coal, bauxite, salt, quartz,
tar sands, semiprecious stones, mica, fish, hydropower

Land use: arable land:  4%

permanent crops:  1%

permanent pastures:  41%

forests and woodland:  40%

other:  14% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 10,870 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: periodic cyclones

Environment - current issues: soil erosion results from
deforestation and overgrazing; desertification; surface water
contaminated with raw sewage and other organic wastes; several
species of flora and fauna unique to the island are endangered

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous
Wastes, Marine Life Conservation, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer
Protection, Wetlands

signed, but not ratified:  Law of the Sea

Geography - note: world's fourth-largest island; strategic location
along Mozambique Channel



Madagascar    People

Population: 15,982,563 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  45.02% (male 3,607,803; female 3,587,532)

15-64 years:  51.77% (male 4,093,720; female 4,180,430)

65 years and over:  3.21% (male 239,839; female 273,239) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 3.02% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 42.66 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 12.42 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.03 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.01 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  0.98 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.88 male(s)/female

total population:  0.99 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 83.58 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  55.35 years

male:  53.08 years

female:  57.68 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 5.8 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 0.15% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 11,000 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: 870 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Malagasy (singular and plural)

adjective:  Malagasy

Ethnic groups: Malayo-Indonesian (Merina and related Betsileo),
Cotiers (mixed African, Malayo-Indonesian, and Arab ancestry -
Betsimisaraka, Tsimihety, Antaisaka, Sakalava), French, Indian,
Creole, Comoran

Religions: indigenous beliefs 52%, Christian 41%, Muslim 7%

Languages: French (official), Malagasy (official)

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  80%

male:  88%

female:  73% (1990 est.)



Madagascar    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Republic of Madagascar

conventional short form:  Madagascar

local long form:  Republique de Madagascar

local short form:  Madagascar

former:  Malagasy Republic

Government type: republic

Capital: Antananarivo

Administrative divisions: 6 provinces (faritany); Antananarivo,
Antsiranana, Fianarantsoa, Mahajanga, Toamasina, Toliara

Independence: 26 June 1960 (from France)

National holiday: Independence Day, 26 June (1960)

Constitution: 19 August 1992 by national referendum

Legal system: based on French civil law system and traditional
Malagasy law; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Didier RATSIRAKA (since
10 February 1997)

head of government:  Prime Minister Tantely Rene Gabriot
ANDRIANARIVO (since NA 1998)

cabinet:  Council of Ministers appointed by the prime minister

elections:  president elected by popular vote for a five-year term;
election last held 29 December 1996 (next to be held NA November
2001); prime minister appointed by the president from a list of
candidates nominated by the National Assembly

election results:  Didier RATSIRAKA elected president; percent of
vote - Didier RATSIRAKA (AREMA) 50.7%, Albert ZAFY (AFFA) 49.3%

Legislative branch: unicameral National Assembly or Assemblee
Nationale (150 seats; members are directly elected by popular vote
to serve four-year terms); note - the legislature is scheduled to
become a bicameral Parliament with the establishment of a Senate;
two-thirds of the seats of this Senate will be filled by regional
assemblies whose members will be elected by popular vote; the
remaining one-third of the seats will be appointed by the president;
the total number of seats will be determined by the National
Assembly; all members will serve four-year terms

elections:  National Assembly - last held 17 May 1998 (next to be
held NA 2002)

election results:  National Assembly - percent of vote by party -
NA%; seats by party - AREMA 63, LEADER/Fanilo 16, AVI 14, RPSD 11,
AFFA 6, MFM 3, AKFM/Fanavaozana 3, GRAD/Iloafo 1, Fihaonana 1,
independents 32

Judicial branch: Supreme Court or Cour Supreme; High Constitutional
Court or Haute Cour Constitutionnelle

Political parties and leaders: Action, Truth, Development, and
Harmony or AFFA [Professor Albert ZAFY]; Association for the Rebirth
of Madagascar or AREMA [leader vacant]; Congress Party for Malagasy
Independence or AKFM/Fanavaozana; Economic Liberalism and Democratic
Action for National Recovery or LEADER/Fanilo [Herizo
RAZAFIMAHALEO]; Fihaonana Rally or Fihaonana [Guy RAZANAMASY]; Group
of Reflection and Action for the Development of Madagascar or
GRAD/Iloafo; Judged by Your Work or AVI [Norbert RATSIRAHONANA];
Movement for the Progress of Madagascar or MFM [Manandafy
RAKOTONIRINA]; Renewal of the Social Democratic Party or RPSD
[Evariste MARSON]; Tranobe (Big House) [Ny Hasina ANDRIAMANJATO]

Political pressure groups and leaders: Federalist Movement; National
Council of Christian Churches or FFKM

International organization participation: ACCT, ACP, AfDB, CCC, ECA,
FAO, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC,
IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, InOC, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM (observer),
ISO (correspondent), ITU, NAM, OAU, OPCW, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR,
UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Zina ANDRIANARIVELO-RAZAFY

chancery:  2374 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone:  [1] (202) 265-5525, 5526

consulate(s) general:  New York

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Shirley E. BARNES

embassy:  14-16 Rue Rainitovo, Antsahavola, Antananarivo

mailing address:  B. P. 620, Antsahavola, Antananarivo

telephone:  [261] (20) 22-212-57

FAX:  [261] (20) 22-345-39

Flag description: two equal horizontal bands of red (top) and green
with a vertical white band of the same width on hoist side



Madagascar    Economy

Economy - overview: Madagascar faces problems of chronic
malnutrition, underfunded health and education facilities, a roughly
3% annual population growth rate, and severe loss of forest cover,
accompanied by erosion. Agriculture, including fishing and forestry,
is the mainstay of the economy, accounting for 30% of GDP and
contributing more than 70% to export earnings. Industry features
textile manufacturing and the processing of agricultural products.
Growth in output in 1992-97 averaged less than the growth rate of
the population. Growth has been held back by antigovernment strikes
and demonstrations, a decline in world coffee prices, and the
erratic commitment of the government to economic reform. The extent
of government reforms, outside financial aid, and foreign investment
will be key determinants of future growth. For 2001, growth should
again be about 5%.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $12.3 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 4.8% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $800 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  30%

industry:  14%

services:  56% (1999 est.)

Population below poverty line: 70% (1994 est.)

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:
1.9%

highest 10%:  36.7% (1993)

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 10% (1999 est.)

Labor force: 7 million (1999)

Unemployment rate: NA%

Budget: revenues:  $553 million

expenditures:  $735 million, including capital expenditures of $NA
(1998 est.)

Industries: meat processing, soap, breweries, tanneries, sugar,
textiles, glassware, cement, automobile assembly plant, paper,
petroleum, tourism

Industrial production growth rate: 3% (2000 est.)

Electricity - production: 810 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  37.04%

hydro:  62.96%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 753.3 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: coffee, vanilla, sugarcane, cloves, cocoa,
rice, cassava (tapioca), beans, bananas, peanuts; livestock products

Exports: $538 million (f.o.b., 1998)

Exports - commodities: coffee, vanilla, shellfish, sugar; cotton
cloth, chromite, petroleum products

Exports - partners: France 41%, US 19%, Germany 13%, UK 8%, Japan 6%
(1999)

Imports: $693 million (f.o.b., 1998)

Imports - commodities: intermediate manufactures, capital goods,
petroleum, consumer goods, food

Imports - partners: France 34%, Hong Kong 6%, China 6%, Japan 5%,
Singapore 4% (1999)

Debt - external: $4.4 billion (1999)

Economic aid - recipient: $838 million (1997)

Currency: Malagasy franc (MGF)

Currency code: MGF

Exchange rates: Malagasy francs per US dollar - 6,656.3 (November
2000), 6,283.8 (1999), 5,441.4 (1998), 5,090.9 (1997), 4,061.3 (1996)

Fiscal year: calendar year



Madagascar    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 43,000 (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 4,000 (1997)

Telephone system: general assessment:  system is above average for
the region

domestic:  open-wire lines, coaxial cables, microwave radio relay,
and tropospheric scatter links

international:  submarine cable to Bahrain; satellite earth stations
- 1 Intelsat (Indian Ocean) and 1 Intersputnik (Atlantic Ocean
region)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 2 (plus 8 repeater stations), FM 7,
shortwave 5 (1998)

Radios: 3.05 million (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 1 (plus 36 repeaters) (1997)

Televisions: 325,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .mg

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 2 (2000)

Internet users: 8,000 (2000)



Madagascar    Transportation

Railways: total:  883 km

narrow gauge:  883 km 1.000-m gauge (1994)

Highways: total:  49,837 km

paved:  5,781 km

unpaved:  44,056 km (1996)

Waterways: note:  of local importance only

Ports and harbors: Antsiranana, Antsohimbondrona, Mahajanga,
Toamasina, Toliara

Merchant marine: total:  13 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
24,819 GRT/34,173 DWT

ships by type:  cargo 7, chemical tanker 1, liquefied gas 1,
petroleum tanker 2, roll on/roll off 2 (2000 est.)

Airports: 130 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  29

over 3,047 m:  1

2,438 to 3,047 m:  2

1,524 to 2,437 m:  5

914 to 1,523 m:  19

under 914 m:  2 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  101

1,524 to 2,437 m:  2

914 to 1,523 m:  56

under 914 m:  43 (2000 est.)



Madagascar    Military

Military branches: Popular Armed Forces (includes Intervention
Forces, Development Forces, Aeronaval Forces - includes Navy and Air
Force), Gendarmerie, Presidential Security Regiment

Military manpower - military age: 20 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  3,640,554 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
2,159,767 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  153,856
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $29 million (FY94)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 1% (FY94)



Madagascar    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: claims Bassas da India, Europa Island,
Glorioso Islands, Juan de Nova Island, and Tromelin Island (all
administered by France)

Illicit drugs: illicit producer of cannabis (cultivated and wild
varieties) used mostly for domestic consumption; transshipment point
for heroin

======================================================================

@Malawi




Malawi    Introduction

Background: Established in 1891, the British protectorate of
Nyasaland became the independent nation of Malawi in 1964. After
three decades of one-party rule, the country held multiparty
elections in 1994 under a provisional constitution, which took full
effect the following year. National multiparty elections were held
again in 1999.



Malawi    Geography

Location: Southern Africa, east of Zambia

Geographic coordinates: 13 30 S, 34 00 E

Map references: Africa

Area: total:  118,480 sq km

land:  94,080 sq km

water:  24,400 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly smaller than Pennsylvania

Land boundaries: total:  2,881 km

border countries:  Mozambique 1,569 km, Tanzania 475 km, Zambia 837
km

Coastline: 0 km (landlocked)

Maritime claims: none (landlocked)

Climate: sub-tropical; rainy season (November to May); dry season
(May to November)

Terrain: narrow elongated plateau with rolling plains, rounded
hills, some mountains

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  junction of the Shire River and
international boundary with Mozambique 37 m

highest point:  Sapitwa 3,002 m

Natural resources: limestone, arable land, hydropower, unexploited
deposits of uranium, coal, and bauxite

Land use: arable land:  34%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  20%

forests and woodland:  39%

other:  7% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 280 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: NA

Environment - current issues: deforestation; land degradation; water
pollution from agricultural runoff, sewage, industrial wastes;
siltation of spawning grounds endangers fish populations

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental
Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Marine Life Conservation, Nuclear
Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands

signed, but not ratified:  Law of the Sea

Geography - note: landlocked



Malawi    People

Population: 10,548,250

note:  estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
life expectancy, higher infant mortality and death rates, lower
population and growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  44.43% (male 2,348,940; female 2,337,290)

15-64 years:  52.78% (male 2,741,622; female 2,825,966)

65 years and over:  2.79% (male 119,283; female 175,149) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 1.5% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 37.8 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 22.81 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.03 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  0.97 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.68 male(s)/female

total population:  0.98 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 121.12 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  37.08 years

male:  36.61 years

female:  37.55 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 5.18 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 15.96% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 800,000 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: 70,000 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Malawian(s)

adjective:  Malawian

Ethnic groups: Chewa, Nyanja, Tumbuko, Yao, Lomwe, Sena, Tonga,
Ngoni, Ngonde, Asian, European

Religions: Protestant 55%, Roman Catholic 20%, Muslim 20%,
indigenous beliefs

Languages: English (official), Chichewa (official), other languages
important regionally

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  58%

male:  72.8%

female:  43.4% (1999 est.)



Malawi    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Republic of Malawi

conventional short form:  Malawi

former:  British Central African Protectorate, Nyasaland
Protectorate, Nyasaland

Government type: multiparty democracy

Capital: Lilongwe

Administrative divisions: 24 districts; Blantyre, Chikwawa,
Chiradzulu, Chitipa, Dedza, Dowa, Karonga, Kasungu, Lilongwe,
Machinga (Kasupe), Mangochi, Mchinji, Mulanje, Mwanza, Mzimba,
Ntcheu, Nkhata Bay, Nkhotakota, Nsanje, Ntchisi, Rumphi, Salima,
Thyolo, Zomba; note - there may be three new districts named Balaka,
Likoma, and Phalombe

Independence: 6 July 1964 (from UK)

National holiday: Independence Day, 6 July (1964)

Constitution: 18 May 1994

Legal system: based on English common law and customary law;
judicial review of legislative acts in the Supreme Court of Appeal;
has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Bakili MULUZI (since 21
May 1994); note - the president is both the chief of state and head
of government

head of government:  President Bakili MULUZI (since 21 May 1994);
note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
government

cabinet:  36-member Cabinet named by the president

elections:  president elected by popular vote for a five-year term;
election last held 15 June 1999 (next to be held NA 2004)

election results:  Bakili MULUZI reelected president; percent of
vote - Bakili MULUZI (UDF) 51.4%, Gwandaguluwe CHAKUAMBA (MCP-AFORD)
44.3%

Legislative branch: unicameral National Assembly (193 seats; members
elected by popular vote to serve five-year terms)

elections:  last held 15 June 1999 (next to be held NA 2004)

election results:  percent of vote by party - UDF 48%, MCP 34%,
AFORD 15%, others 3%; seats by party - UDF 94, MCP 66, AFORD 29,
others 4

Judicial branch: Supreme Court of Appeal; High Court (chief justice
appointed by the president, puisne judges appointed on the advice of
the Judicial Service Commission); magistrate's courts

Political parties and leaders: Alliance for Democracy or AFORD
[Chakufwa CHIHANA, president]; Malawi Congress Party or MCP [Gwanda
CHAKUAMBA, president, John TEMBO, vice president]; Malawi Democratic
Party or MDP [Kampelo KALUA, president]; National Independence
Party; Social Democratic Party or SDP [Eston KAKHOME, president];
United Democratic Front or UDF [Bakili MULUZI] - governing party

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: ACP, AfDB, C, CCC, ECA,
FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF,
IMO, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, ISO (correspondent), ITU, NAM, OAU,
OPCW, SADC, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNMIK, UPU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO,
WMO, WToO, WTrO

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Paul Tony Steven KANDIERO

chancery:  2408 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone:  [1] (202) 797-1007

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Roger A. MEECE

embassy:  Area 40, Plot 24, Kenyatta Road

mailing address:  P. O. Box 30016, Lilongwe 3, Malawi

telephone:  [265] 773 166

FAX:  [265] 770 471

Flag description: three equal horizontal bands of black (top), red,
and green with a radiant, rising, red sun centered in the black band

Government - note: the executive exerts considerable influence over
the legislature



Malawi    Economy

Economy - overview: Landlocked Malawi ranks among the world's least
developed countries. The economy is predominately agricultural, with
about 90% of the population living in rural areas. Agriculture
accounts for 37% of GDP and 85% of export revenues. The economy
depends on substantial inflows of economic assistance from the IMF,
the World Bank, and individual donor nations. In late 2000, Malawi
was approved for relief under the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries
(HIPC) program. The government faces strong challenges, e.g., to
fully develop a market economy, to improve educational facilities,
to face up to environmental problems, and to deal with the rapidly
growing problem of HIV/AIDS.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $9.4 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 3% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $900 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  37%

industry:  29%

services:  34% (1998 est.)

Population below poverty line: 54% (FY90/91 est.)

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 29.5% (2000)

Labor force: 3.5 million

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture 86% (1997 est.)

Unemployment rate: NA%

Budget: revenues:  $490 million

expenditures:  $523 million, including capital expenditures of $NA
(FY99/00 est.)

Industries: tobacco, tea, sugar, sawmill products, cement, consumer
goods

Industrial production growth rate: NA%

Electricity - production: 1.025 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  2.44%

hydro:  97.56%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 950 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 3 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: tobacco, sugarcane, cotton, tea, corn,
potatoes, cassava (tapioca), sorghum, pulses; cattle, goats

Exports: $416 million (f.o.b., 2000)

Exports - commodities: tobacco, tea, sugar, cotton, coffee, peanuts,
wood products

Exports - partners: South Africa 16%, Germany 16%, US 15%,
Netherlands 7%, Japan (1999)

Imports: $435 million (f.o.b., 2000)

Imports - commodities: food, petroleum products, semimanufactures,
consumer goods, transportation equipment

Imports - partners: South Africa 43%, Zimbabwe 14%, UK 5%, Germany
5%, Zambia, Japan, US (1999)

Debt - external: $2.9 billion (2000 est.)

Economic aid - recipient: $427 million (1999)

Currency: Malawian kwacha (MWK)

Currency code: MWK

Exchange rates: Malawian kwachas per US dollar - 80.0946 (December
2000), 59.5438 (2000), 44.0881 (1999), 31.0727 (1998), 16.4442
(1997), 15.3085 (1996)

Fiscal year: 1 July - 30 June



Malawi    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 37,000 (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 7,000 (1997)

Telephone system: general assessment:  NA

domestic:  fair system of open-wire lines, microwave radio relay
links, and radiotelephone communications stations

international:  satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat (1 Indian
Ocean and 1 Atlantic Ocean)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 9, FM 4 (plus 15 repeater stations),
shortwave 3 (1998)

Radios: 2.6 million (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 1 (1999)

Televisions: 0 (1999)

Internet country code: .mw

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 8 (2001)

Internet users: 10,000 (2000)



Malawi    Transportation

Railways: total:  789 km

narrow gauge:  789 km 1.067-m gauge

Highways: total:  16,451 km

paved:  3,126 km

unpaved:  13,325 km (1997)

Waterways: 144 km

note:  on Lake Nyasa (Lake Malawi) and Shire Riverall

Ports and harbors: Chipoka, Monkey Bay, Nkhata Bay, Nkhotakota,
Chilumba

Airports: 44 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  6

over 3,047 m:  1

1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

914 to 1,523 m:  4 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  38

1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

914 to 1,523 m:  14

under 914 m:  23 (2000 est.)



Malawi    Military

Military branches: Army (includes Air Wing and Naval Detachment),
Police (includes paramilitary Mobile Force Unit)

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  2,466,708 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
1,265,893 (2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $9.5 million (FY00/01)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 0.76% (FY00/01)



Malawi    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: dispute with Tanzania over the boundary in
Lake Nyasa (Lake Malawi)

======================================================================

@Malaysia




Malaysia    Introduction

Background: Malaysia was created in 1963 through the merging of
Malaya (independent in 1957) and the former British Singapore, both
of which formed West Malaysia, and Sabah and Sarawak in north
Borneo, which composed East Malaysia. The first three years of
independence were marred by hostilities with Indonesia. Singapore
separated from the union in 1965.



Malaysia    Geography

Location: Southeastern Asia, peninsula and northern one-third of the
island of Borneo, bordering Indonesia and the South China Sea, south
of Vietnam

Geographic coordinates: 2 30 N, 112 30 E

Map references: Southeast Asia

Area: total:  329,750 sq km

land:  328,550 sq km

water:  1,200 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly larger than New Mexico

Land boundaries: total:  2,669 km

border countries:  Brunei 381 km, Indonesia 1,782 km, Thailand 506 km

Coastline: 4,675 km (Peninsular Malaysia 2,068 km, East Malaysia
2,607 km)

Maritime claims: continental shelf:  200-m depth or to the depth of
exploitation; specified boundary in the South China Sea

exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: tropical; annual southwest (April to October) and northeast
(October to February) monsoons

Terrain: coastal plains rising to hills and mountains

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Indian Ocean 0 m

highest point:  Gunung Kinabalu 4,100 m

Natural resources: tin, petroleum, timber, copper, iron ore, natural
gas, bauxite

Land use: arable land:  3%

permanent crops:  12%

permanent pastures:  0%

forests and woodland:  68%

other:  17% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 2,941 sq km (1998 est.)

Natural hazards: flooding, landslides

Environment - current issues: air pollution from industrial and
vehicular emissions; water pollution from raw sewage; deforestation;
smoke/haze from Indonesian forest fires

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous
Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Life Conservation, Nuclear Test Ban,
Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical
Timber 94, Wetlands

signed, but not ratified:  Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol

Geography - note: strategic location along Strait of Malacca and
southern South China Sea



Malaysia    People

Population: 22,229,040 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  34.5% (male 3,943,324; female 3,724,634)

15-64 years:  61.35% (male 6,828,670; female 6,808,623)

65 years and over:  4.15% (male 404,042; female 519,747) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 1.96% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 24.75 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 5.2 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

note:  does not reflect net flow of an unknown number of illegal
immigrants from other countries in the region

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.07 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.06 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.78 male(s)/female

total population:  1.01 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 20.31 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  71.11 years

male:  68.48 years

female:  73.92 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 3.24 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 0.42% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 49,000 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: 1,900 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Malaysian(s)

adjective:  Malaysian

Ethnic groups: Malay and other indigenous 58%, Chinese 27%, Indian
8%, others 7% (2000)

Religions: Islam, Buddhism, Daoism, Hinduism, Christianity, Sikhism;
note - in addition, Shamanism is practiced in East Malaysia

Languages: Bahasa Melayu (official), English, Chinese dialects
(Cantonese, Mandarin, Hokkien, Hakka, Hainan, Foochow), Tamil,
Telugu, Malayalam, Panjabi, Thai; note - in addition, in East
Malaysia several indigenous languages are spoken, the largest of
which are Iban and Kadazan

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  83.5%

male:  89.1%

female:  78.1% (1995 est.)



Malaysia    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  none

conventional short form:  Malaysia

former:  Federation of Malaysia

Government type: constitutional monarchy

note:  Malaya (what is now Peninsular Malaysia) formed 31 August
1957; Federation of Malaysia (Malaya, Sabah, Sarawak, and Singapore)
formed 9 July 1963 (Singapore left the federation on 9 August 1965);
nominally headed by the paramount ruler and a bicameral Parliament
consisting of a nonelected upper house and an elected lower house;
Peninsular Malaysian states - hereditary rulers in all but Melaka,
Penang, Sabah, and Sarawak, where governors are appointed by the
Malaysian Government; powers of state governments are limited by the
federal constitution; under terms of the federation, Sabah and
Sarawak retain certain constitutional prerogatives (e.g., the right
to maintain their own immigration controls); Sabah - holds 20 seats
in House of Representatives, with foreign affairs, defense, internal
security, and other powers delegated to federal government; Sarawak
- holds 28 seats in House of Representatives, with foreign affairs,
defense, internal security, and other powers delegated to federal
government

Capital: Kuala Lumpur

Administrative divisions: 13 states (negeri-negeri, singular -
negeri) and 2 federal territories* (wilayah-wilayah persekutuan,
singular - wilayah persekutuan); Johor, Kedah, Kelantan, Labuan*,
Melaka, Negeri Sembilan, Pahang, Perak, Perlis, Pulau Pinang, Sabah,
Sarawak, Selangor, Terengganu, Wilayah Persekutuan*

note:  the city of Kuala Lumpur is located within the federal
territory of Wilayah Persekutuan; the terms therefore are not
interchangeable; there may be a new federal territory named Putrajaya

Independence: 31 August 1957 (from UK)

National holiday: Independence Day/Malaysia Day, 31 August (1957)

Constitution: 31 August 1957, amended 16 September 1963

Legal system: based on English common law; judicial review of
legislative acts in the Supreme Court at request of supreme head of
the federation; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Suffrage: 21 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  Paramount Ruler Sultan TUNKU
SALAHUDDIN Abdul Aziz Shah ibni Al-Marhum Sultan Hisammuddin Alam
Shah (since 26 April 1999); Deputy Paramount Ruler Sultan MIZAN
Zainal Abidin ibni A-Marhum Sultan Mahmud Al-Muktafi Billah Shah

head of government:  Prime Minister Dr. MAHATHIR bin Mohamad (since
16 July 1981); Deputy Prime Minister ABDULLAH bin Ahmad Badawi
(since 8 January 1999)

cabinet:  Cabinet appointed by the prime minister from among the
members of Parliament with consent of the paramount ruler

elections:  paramount ruler and deputy paramount ruler elected by
and from the hereditary rulers of nine of the states for five-year
terms; election last held 27 February 1999 (next to be held NA
2004); prime minister designated from among the members of the House
of Representatives; following legislative elections, the leader of
the party that wins a plurality of seats in the House of
Representatives becomes prime minister

election results:  Sultan TUNKU SALAHUDDIN Abdul Aziz Shah ibni
Al-Marhum Sultan Hisammuddin Alam Shah elected paramount ruler;
Sultan MIZAN Zainal Abidin ibni A-Marhum Sultan Mahmud Al-Muktafi
Billah Shah elected deputy paramount ruler

Legislative branch: bicameral Parliament or Parlimen consists of
nonelected Senate or Dewan Negara (69 seats; 43 appointed by the
paramount ruler, 26 appointed by the state legislatures) and the
House of Representatives or Dewan Rakyat (193 seats; members elected
by popular vote weighted toward the rural Malay population to serve
five-year terms)

elections:  House of Representatives - last held 29 November 1999
(next must be held by 20 December 2004)

election results:  House of Representatives - percent of vote by
party - NF 56%, other 44%; seats by party - NF 148, PAS 27, DAP 10,
NJP 5, PBS 3

Judicial branch: Federal Court (judges appointed by the paramount
ruler on the advice of the prime minister)

Political parties and leaders: Alternative Coalition or Barisan
Alternatif-BA (includes the following parties: Party Islam
Se-Malaysia or PAS [FADZIL Mohamad Noor], National Justice Party or
NJP [WAN AZIZAH Wan Ismail], Democratic Action Party or DAP [LIM Kit
Siang], and Malaysian People's Party or PRM [SYED HUSIN]); National
Front or NF (ruling coalition dominated by the United Malays
National Organization or UMNO [MAHATHIR bin Mohammad], includes the
following parties: Malaysian Indian Congress or MIC [S. Samy VELLU],
Malaysian Chinese Association or MCA [LING Liong Sik], Gerakan
Rakyat Malaysia or Gerakan [LIM Keng Yaik], Parti Pesaka Bumiputra
Bersatu or PBB [Patinggi Haji Abdul TAIB Mahmud], Parti Angkatan
Keadilan Rakyat Bersatu or Akar [PANDIKAR Amin Mulia], Parti Bangsa
Dayak Sarawak or PBDS [Leo MOGGIE], Sarawak United People's Party or
SUPP [George CHAN Hong Nam], Liberal Democratic Party or LDP [CHONG
Kah Kiat], Sabah Progressive Party or SAPP [YONG Teck Lee], People's
Progressive Party or PPP [M. KAYVEAS], Parti Bersatu Rakyat Sabah or
PBRS [Joseph KURUP], Sarawak National Party or SNAP [Amar James
WONG], Parti Demokratik Sabah or PDS [leader NA], and United Pasok
Momogun Kadazan Organization or UPKO (state level only) [Bernard
DOMPOK]); Parti Bersatu Sabah or PBS [Joseph PAIRIN Kitingan]; Parti
Bersekutu [HARRIS Salleh]; State Reform Party of Sarawak or STAR
[PATAU Rubis]

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: APEC, ARF, AsDB, ASEAN,
BIS, C, CCC, CP, ESCAP, FAO, G-15, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU,
ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat,
Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, ISO, ITU, MINURSO, MONUC, NAM, OIC, OPCW,
UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNIKOM, UNMEE, UNMIBH, UNMIK, UNTAET,
UPU, WCL, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
GHAZZALI Sheikh Abdul Khalid

chancery:  2401 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone:  [1] (202) 328-2700

FAX:  [1] (202) 483-7661

consulate(s) general:  Los Angeles and New York

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
B. Lynn PASCOE

embassy:  376 Jalan Tun Razak, 50400 Kuala Lumpur

mailing address:  P. O. Box No. 10035, 50700 Kuala Lumpur; American
Embassy Kuala Lumpur, APO AP 96535-8152

telephone:  [60] (3) 2168-5000

FAX:  [60] (3) 2168-4961

Flag description: 14 equal horizontal stripes of red (top)
alternating with white (bottom); there is a blue rectangle in the
upper hoist-side corner bearing a yellow crescent and a yellow
fourteen-pointed star; the crescent and the star are traditional
symbols of Islam; the design was based on the flag of the US



Malaysia    Economy

Economy - overview: GDP grew at 8.6% in 2000, mainly on the strength
of double-digit export growth and continued government fiscal
stimulus. As an oil exporter, Malaysia also benefited from higher
petroleum prices. Higher export revenues allowed the country to
register a current account surplus, but foreign exchange reserves
have been declining - from a peak of $34.5 billion in April 2000 to
$29.7 billion by December - as foreign investors pulled money out of
the country. Despite this development, Kuala Lumpur is unlikely to
abandon its currency peg soon. An economic slowdown in key Western
markets, especially the United States, and lower world demand for
electronics products will slow GDP growth to 3%-6% in 2001,
according to private forecasters. Over the longer term, Malaysia's
failure to make substantial progress on key reforms of the corporate
and financial sectors clouds prospects for sustained growth and the
return of critical foreign investment.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $223.7 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 8.6% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $10,300 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  14%

industry:  44%

services:  42% (2000)

Population below poverty line: 6.8% (1997 est.)

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:
1.4%

highest 10%:  20.4% (1997 est.)

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 1.7% (2000)

Labor force: 9.6 million (2000 est.)

Labor force - by occupation: local trade and tourism 28%,
manufacturing 27%, agriculture, forestry, and fisheries 16%,
services 10%, government 10%, construction 9% (2000 est.)

Unemployment rate: 2.8% (2000 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $16.4 billion

expenditures:  $17.8 billion, including capital expenditures of $43
billion (2000 est.)

Industries: Peninsular Malaysia - rubber and oil palm processing and
manufacturing, light manufacturing industry, electronics, tin mining
and smelting, logging and processing timber; Sabah - logging,
petroleum production; Sarawak - agriculture processing, petroleum
production and refining, logging

Industrial production growth rate: 12.1% (2000 est.)

Electricity - production: 59.044 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  91.61%

hydro:  8.39%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 54.872 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 50 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 11 million kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: Peninsular Malaysia - rubber, palm oil,
cocoa, rice; Sabah - subsistence crops, rubber, timber, coconuts,
rice; Sarawak - rubber, pepper; timber

Exports: $97.9 billion (2000 est.)

Exports - commodities: electronic equipment, petroleum and liquefied
natural gas, chemicals, palm oil, wood and wood products, rubber,
textiles

Exports - partners: US 21%, Singapore 18%, Japan 13%, Hong Kong 5%,
Netherlands 4%, Taiwan 4%, Thailand 3% (2000 est.)

Imports: $82.6 billion (2000 est.)

Imports - commodities: machinery and transport equipment, chemicals,
food, fuel and lubricants

Imports - partners: Japan 21%, US 17%, Singapore 14%, Taiwan 6%,
South Korea 5%, Thailand 4%, China 4% (2000 est.)

Debt - external: $41.8 billion (2000 est.)

Currency: ringgit (MYR)

Currency code: MYR

Exchange rates: ringgits per US dollar - 3.8000 (January 2001),
3.8000 (2000), 3.8000 (1999), 3.9244 (1998), 2.8133 (1997), 2.5159
(1996)

Fiscal year: calendar year



Malaysia    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 4.5 million (1999)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 2.698 million (1999)

Telephone system: general assessment:  modern system; international
service excellent

domestic:  good intercity service provided on Peninsular Malaysia
mainly by microwave radio relay; adequate intercity microwave radio
relay network between Sabah and Sarawak via Brunei; domestic
satellite system with 2 earth stations

international:  submarine cables to India, Hong Kong, and Singapore;
satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat (1 Indian Ocean and 1 Pacific
Ocean) (2001)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 56, FM 31 (plus 13 repeater stations),
shortwave 5 (1999)

Radios: 10.9 million (1999)

Television broadcast stations: 27 (plus 15 high-power repeaters)
(1999)

Televisions: 10.8 million (1999)

Internet country code: .my

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 7 (2000)

Internet users: 1.5 million (2000)



Malaysia    Transportation

Railways: total:  1,801 km

narrow gauge:  1,801 km 1.000-m gauge (148 km electrified) (2000)

Highways: total:  64,672 km

paved:  48,707 km (including 1,192 km of expressways)

unpaved:  15,965 km

note:  in addition to these national and main regional roads,
Malaysia has thousands of kilometers of local roads that are
maintained by local jurisdictions (1999)

Waterways: 7,296 km

note:  Peninsular Malaysia 3,209 km, Sabah 1,569 km, Sarawak 2,518 km

Pipelines: crude oil 1,307 km; natural gas 379 km

Ports and harbors: Bintulu, Kota Kinabalu, Kuantan, Kuching, Kudat,
Labuan, Lahad Datu, Lumut, Miri, Pasir Gudang, Penang, Port Dickson,
Port Kelang, Sandakan, Sibu, Tanjung Berhala, Tanjung Kidurong, Tawau

Merchant marine: total:  362 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
5,103,657 GRT/7,574,999 DWT

ships by type:  bulk 62, cargo 110, chemical tanker 35, container
60, liquefied gas 20, livestock carrier 1, passenger 2, petroleum
tanker 58, refrigerated cargo 1, roll on/roll off 6, specialized
tanker 1, vehicle carrier 6 (2000 est.)

Airports: 115 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  33

over 3,047 m:  5

2,438 to 3,047 m:  4

1,524 to 2,437 m:  11

914 to 1,523 m:  6

under 914 m:  7 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  82

1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

914 to 1,523 m:  8

under 914 m:  73 (2000 est.)

Heliports: 1 (2000 est.)



Malaysia    Military

Military branches: Malaysian Army, Royal Malaysian Navy, Royal
Malaysian Air Force, Royal Malaysian Police Force, Marine Police,
Sarawak Border Scouts

Military manpower - military age: 21 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  5,800,456 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
3,514,023 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  196,042
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $1.69 billion (FY00 est.)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 2.03% (FY00)



Malaysia    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: involved in a complex dispute over the
Spratly Islands with China, Philippines, Taiwan, Vietnam, and
possibly Brunei; Philippines have not fully revoked claim to Sabah
State; Pulau Batu Putih (Pedra Branca Island) disputed with
Singapore; Sipadan and Ligitan Islands in dispute with Indonesia

Illicit drugs: transit point for some illicit drugs; drug
trafficking prosecuted vigorously and carries severe penalties

======================================================================

@Maldives




Maldives    Introduction

Background: The Maldives were long a sultanate, first under Dutch
and then under British protection. They became a republic in 1968,
three years after independence. Tourism and fishing are being
developed on the archipelago.



Maldives    Geography

Location: Southern Asia, group of atolls in the Indian Ocean,
south-southwest of India

Geographic coordinates: 3 15 N, 73 00 E

Map references: Asia

Area: total:  300 sq km

land:  300 sq km

water:  0 sq km

Area - comparative: about 1.7 times the size of Washington, DC

Land boundaries: 0 km

Coastline: 644 km

Maritime claims: measured from claimed archipelagic baselines

contiguous zone:  24 NM

exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: tropical; hot, humid; dry, northeast monsoon (November to
March); rainy, southwest monsoon (June to August)

Terrain: flat, with white sandy beaches

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Indian Ocean 0 m

highest point:  unnamed location on Wilingili island in the Addu
Atoll 2.4 m

Natural resources: fish

Land use: arable land:  10%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  3%

forests and woodland:  3%

other:  84% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: NA sq km

Natural hazards: low level of islands makes them very sensitive to
sea level rise

Environment - current issues: depletion of freshwater aquifers
threatens water supplies; global warming and sea level rise; coral
reef bleaching

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Hazardous Wastes, Law
of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection

signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Geography - note: 1,190 coral islands grouped into 26 atolls (200
inhabited islands, plus 80 islands with tourist resorts);
archipelago of strategic location astride and along major sea lanes
in Indian Ocean



Maldives    People

Population: 310,764 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  45.63% (male 72,920; female 68,895)

15-64 years:  51.37% (male 81,506; female 78,149)

65 years and over:  3% (male 4,806; female 4,488) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 3.01% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 38.15 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 8.09 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.06 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  1.07 male(s)/female

total population:  1.05 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 63.72 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  62.56 years

male:  61.39 years

female:  63.8 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 5.5 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 0.05% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: NA

HIV/AIDS - deaths: NA

Nationality: noun:  Maldivian(s)

adjective:  Maldivian

Ethnic groups: South Indians, Sinhalese, Arabs

Religions: Sunni Muslim

Languages: Maldivian Dhivehi (dialect of Sinhala, script derived
from Arabic), English spoken by most government officials

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  93.2%

male:  93.3%

female:  93% (1995 est.)



Maldives    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Republic of Maldives

conventional short form:  Maldives

local long form:  Dhivehi Raajjeyge Jumhooriyyaa

local short form:  Dhivehi Raajje

Government type: republic

Capital: Male

Administrative divisions: 19 atolls (atholhu, singular and plural)
and 1 other first-order administrative division*; Alifu, Baa,
Dhaalu, Faafu, Gaafu Alifu, Gaafu Dhaalu, Gnaviyani, Haa Alifu, Haa
Dhaalu, Kaafu, Laamu, Lhaviyani, Maale*, Meemu, Noonu, Raa, Seenu,
Shaviyani, Thaa, Vaavu

Independence: 26 July 1965 (from UK)

National holiday: Independence Day, 26 July (1965)

Constitution: adopted January 1998

Legal system: based on Islamic law with admixtures of English common
law primarily in commercial matters; has not accepted compulsory ICJ
jurisdiction

Suffrage: 21 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Maumoon Abdul GAYOOM
(since 11 November 1978); note - the president is both the chief of
state and head of government

head of government:  President Maumoon Abdul GAYOOM (since 11
November 1978); note - the president is both the chief of state and
head of government

cabinet:  appointed by the president; note - need not be members of
Majlis

elections:  president nominated by the Majlis and then that
nomination must be ratified by a national referendum (at least a 51%
approval margin is required); president elected for a five-year
term; election last held 16 October 1998 (next to be held NA October
2003)

election results:  President Maumoon Abdul GAYOOM reelected; percent
of popular vote - Maumoon Abdul GAYOOM 90.9%

Legislative branch: unicameral People's Council or Majlis (50 seats;
42 elected by popular vote, 8 appointed by the president; members
serve five-year terms)

elections:  last held 20 November 1999 (next to be held NA November
2004)

election results:  percent of vote - NA%; seats - independents 42

Judicial branch: High Court

Political parties and leaders: although political parties are not
banned, none exist

Political pressure groups and leaders: none

International organization participation: AsDB, C, CCC, CP, ESCAP,
FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IMF, IMO, Intelsat
(nonsignatory user), Interpol, IOC, ITU, NAM, OIC, OPCW, SAARC, UN,
UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WHO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Diplomatic representation in the US: Maldives does not have an
embassy in the US, but does have a Permanent Mission to the UN in
New York

Diplomatic representation from the US: the US does not have an
embassy in Maldives; the US Ambassador to Sri Lanka is accredited to
Maldives and makes periodic visits there

Flag description: red with a large green rectangle in the center
bearing a vertical white crescent; the closed side of the crescent
is on the hoist side of the flag



Maldives    Economy

Economy - overview: Tourism, Maldives largest industry, accounts for
20% of GDP and more than 60% of the Maldives' foreign exchange
receipts. Over 90% of government tax revenue comes from import
duties and tourism-related taxes. Almost 400,000 tourists visited
the islands in 1998. Fishing is a second leading sector. The
Maldivian Government began an economic reform program in 1989
initially by lifting import quotas and opening some exports to the
private sector. Subsequently, it has liberalized regulations to
allow more foreign investment. Agriculture and manufacturing
continue to play a minor role in the economy, constrained by the
limited availability of cultivable land and the shortage of domestic
labor. Most staple foods must be imported. Industry, which consists
mainly of garment production, boat building, and handicrafts,
accounts for about 18% of GDP. Maldivian authorities worry about the
impact of erosion and possible global warming on their low-lying
country; 80% of the area is one meter or less above sea level.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $594 million (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 7.6% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $2,000 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  20%

industry:  18%

services:  62% (2000 est.)

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 3% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 67,000 (1995)

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture 22%, industry 18%, services
60% (1995)

Unemployment rate: NEGL%

Budget: revenues:  $166 million (excluding foreign grants)

expenditures:  $192 million, including capital expenditures of $80
million (1999 est.)

Industries: fish processing, tourism, shipping, boat building,
coconut processing, garments, woven mats, rope, handicrafts, coral
and sand mining

Industrial production growth rate: 4.4% (1996 est.)

Electricity - production: 101 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  100%

hydro:  0%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 93.9 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: coconuts, corn, sweet potatoes; fish

Exports: $88 million (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Exports - commodities: fish, clothing

Exports - partners: US, UK, Sri Lanka, Japan

Imports: $372 million (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Imports - commodities: consumer goods, intermediate and capital
goods, petroleum products

Imports - partners: Singapore, India, Sri Lanka, Japan, Canada

Debt - external: $237 million (2000 est.)

Economic aid - recipient: $NA

Currency: rufiyaa (MVR)

Currency code: MVR

Exchange rates: rufiyaa per US dollar - 11.770 (fixed rate since
1995)

Fiscal year: calendar year



Maldives    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 21,000 (1999)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 1,290 (1997)

Telephone system: general assessment:  minimal domestic and
international facilities

domestic:  interatoll communication through microwave links; all
inhabited islands are connected with telephone and fax service

international:  satellite earth station - 3 Intelsat (Indian Ocean)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 1, FM 1, shortwave 1 (1998)

Radios: 35,000 (1999)

Television broadcast stations: 1 (1997)

Televisions: 10,000 (1999)

Internet country code: .mv

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 1 (2000)

Internet users: 2,000 (2000)



Maldives    Transportation

Railways: 0 km

Highways: total:  NA km

paved:  NA km

unpaved:  NA km; note - Male has 9.6 km of coral highways within the
city (1988 est.)

Waterways: none

Ports and harbors: Gan, Male

Merchant marine: total:  17 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
58,604 GRT/81,451 DWT

ships by type:  cargo 16, short-sea passenger 1 (2000 est.)

Airports: 5 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  2

over 3,047 m:  1

2,438 to 3,047 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  3

914 to 1,523 m:  3 (2000 est.)



Maldives    Military

Military branches: National Security Service

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  71,856 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
40,006 (2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $NA

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: NA%



Maldives    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

======================================================================

@Mali




Mali    Introduction

Background: The Sudanese Republic and Senegal became independent of
France in 1960 as the Mali Federation. When Senegal withdrew after
only a few months, the Sudanese Republic was renamed Mali. Rule by
dictatorship was brought to a close in 1991 with a transitional
government, and in 1992 when Mali's first democratic presidential
election was held. Since his reelection in 1997, President KONARE
has continued to push through political and economic reforms and to
fight corruption. In 1999 he indicated he would not run for a third
term.



Mali    Geography

Location: Western Africa, southwest of Algeria

Geographic coordinates: 17 00 N, 4 00 W

Map references: Africa

Area: total:  1.24 million sq km

land:  1.22 million sq km

water:  20,000 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly less than twice the size of Texas

Land boundaries: total:  7,243 km

border countries:  Algeria 1,376 km, Burkina Faso 1,000 km, Guinea
858 km, Cote d'Ivoire 532 km, Mauritania 2,237 km, Niger 821 km,
Senegal 419 km

Coastline: 0 km (landlocked)

Maritime claims: none (landlocked)

Climate: subtropical to arid; hot and dry February to June; rainy,
humid, and mild June to November; cool and dry November to February

Terrain: mostly flat to rolling northern plains covered by sand;
savanna in south, rugged hills in northeast

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Senegal River 23 m

highest point:  Hombori Tondo 1,155 m

Natural resources: gold, phosphates, kaolin, salt, limestone,
uranium, hydropower

note:  bauxite, iron ore, manganese, tin, and copper deposits are
known but not exploited

Land use: arable land:  2%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  25%

forests and woodland:  6%

other:  67% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 780 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: hot, dust-laden harmattan haze common during dry
seasons; recurring droughts

Environment - current issues: deforestation; soil erosion;
desertification; inadequate supplies of potable water; poaching

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous
Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands

signed, but not ratified:  Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Nuclear
Test Ban

Geography - note: landlocked



Mali    People

Population: 11,008,518 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  47.2% (male 2,612,215; female 2,583,370)

15-64 years:  49.73% (male 2,610,142; female 2,864,127)

65 years and over:  3.07% (male 158,486; female 180,178) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 2.97% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 48.79 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 18.71 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: -0.36 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.03 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.01 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  0.91 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.88 male(s)/female

total population:  0.96 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 121.44 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  47.02 years

male:  45.84 years

female:  48.24 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 6.81 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 2.03% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 100,000 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: 9,900 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Malian(s)

adjective:  Malian

Ethnic groups: Mande 50% (Bambara, Malinke, Soninke), Peul 17%,
Voltaic 12%, Songhai 6%, Tuareg and Moor 10%, other 5%

Religions: Muslim 90%, indigenous beliefs 9%, Christian 1%

Languages: French (official), Bambara 80%, numerous African languages

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  31%

male:  39.4%

female:  23.1% (1995 est.)



Mali    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Republic of Mali

conventional short form:  Mali

local long form:  Republique de Mali

local short form:  Mali

former:  French Sudan and Sudanese Republic

Government type: republic

Capital: Bamako

Administrative divisions: 8 regions (regions, singular - region);
Gao, Kayes, Kidal, Koulikoro, Mopti, Segou, Sikasso, Tombouctou

Independence: 22 September 1960 (from France)

National holiday: Independence Day, 22 September (1960)

Constitution: adopted 12 January 1992

Legal system: based on French civil law system and customary law;
judicial review of legislative acts in Constitutional Court (which
was formally established on 9 March 1994); has not accepted
compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Suffrage: 21 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Alpha Oumar KONARE
(since 8 June 1992)

head of government:  Prime Minister Mande SIDIBE (since September
2000)

cabinet:  Council of Ministers appointed by the prime minister

elections:  president elected by popular vote for a five-year term;
election last held 11 May 1997 (next to be held NA May 2002); prime
minister appointed by the president

election results:  Alpha Oumar KONARE reelected president; percent
of vote - Alpha Oumar KONARE 95.9%, Mamadou DIABY 4.1%

Legislative branch: unicameral National Assembly or Assemblee
Nationale (147 seats; members are elected by popular vote to serve
five-year terms)

elections:  last held 20 July and 3 August 1997 (next to be held in
two rounds in 2002); note - much of the opposition boycotted the
election

election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
ADEMA 130, PARENA 8, CDS 4, UDD 3, PDP 2

Judicial branch: Supreme Court or Cour Supreme

Political parties and leaders: Alliance for Democracy or ADEMA
[Ibrahim Boubacar KEITA, party chairman]; Block of Alternative for
the Renewal of Africa or BARA [Yoro DIAKITE]; Democratic and Social
Convention or CDS [Mamadou Bakary SANGARE, chairman]; Movement for
the Independence, Renaissance and Integration of Africa or MIRIA
[Mohamed Lamine TRAORE, Mouhamedou DICKO]; National Congress for
Democratic Initiative or CNID [Mountaga TALL, chairman]; Party for
Democracy and Progress or PDP [Me Idrissa TRAORE]; Party for
National Renewal or PARENA [Yoro DIAKITE, chairman; Tiebile DRAME,
secretary general]; Rally for Democracy and Labor or RDT [Ali
GNANGADO]; Rally for Democracy and Progress or RDP [Almamy SYLLA,
chairman]; Sudanese Union/African Democratic Rally or US/RDA
[Mamadou Bamou TOURE, secretary general]; Union of Democratic Forces
for Progress or UFDP [Youssouf TOURE, secretary general]; Union for
Democracy and Development or UDD [Moussa Balla COULIBALY]

Political pressure groups and leaders: Patriotic Movement of the
Ghanda Koye or MPGK; United Movement and Fronts of Azawad or MFUA

International organization participation: ACCT, ACP, AfDB, CCC, ECA,
ECOWAS, FAO, FZ, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IDB,
IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO
(subscriber), ITU, MIPONUH, MONUC, NAM, OAU, OIC, OPCW, UN, UN
Security Council (temporary), UNAMSIL, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU,
WADB, WAEMU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Cheick Oumar DIARRAH

chancery:  2130 R Street NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone:  [1] (202) 332-2249, 939-8950

FAX:  [1] (202) 332-6603

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Michael RANNEBERGER

embassy:  Rue Rochester NY and Rue Mohamed V, Bamako

mailing address:  B. P. 34, Bamako

telephone:  [223] 22 54 70

FAX:  [223] 22 37 12

Flag description: three equal vertical bands of green (hoist side),
yellow, and red; uses the popular pan-African colors of Ethiopia



Mali    Economy

Economy - overview: Mali is among the poorest countries in the
world, with 65% of its land area desert or semidesert. Economic
activity is largely confined to the riverine area irrigated by the
Niger. About 10% of the population is nomadic and some 80% of the
labor force is engaged in farming and fishing. Industrial activity
is concentrated on processing farm commodities. Mali is heavily
dependent on foreign aid and vulnerable to fluctuations in world
prices for cotton, its main export. In 1997, the government
continued its successful implementation of an IMF-recommended
structural adjustment program that is helping the economy grow,
diversify, and attract foreign investment. Mali's adherence to
economic reform and the 50% devaluation of the African franc in
January 1994 have pushed up economic growth to a sturdy 5% average
in 1996-2000. Growth should remain around 5% in 2001-02, and
inflation should stay less than 2%.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $9.1 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 4.8% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $850 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  46%

industry:  21%

services:  33% (1998)

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:
1.8%

highest 10%:  40.4% (1994)

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 0.8% (2000 est.)

Labor force: NA

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture and fishing 80% (1998 est.)

Unemployment rate: NA%

Budget: revenues:  $730 million

expenditures:  $770 million, including capital expenditures of $320
million (1997 est.)

Industries: minor local consumer goods production and food
processing; construction; phosphate and gold mining

Industrial production growth rate: NA

Electricity - production: 445 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  44.94%

hydro:  55.06%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 413.9 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: cotton, millet, rice, corn, vegetables,
peanuts; cattle, sheep, goats

Exports: $480 million (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Exports - commodities: cotton 50%, gold, livestock (1999 est.)

Exports - partners: Italy 18%, Thailand 15%, Germany 7%, Portugal 4%
(1999)

Imports: $575 million (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Imports - commodities: machinery and equipment, construction
materials, petroleum, foodstuffs, textiles

Imports - partners: Cote d'Ivoire 19%, France 19%, Senegal 4%,
Benelux 3% (1999)

Debt - external: $3 billion (1999)

Economic aid - recipient: $596.4 million (1995)

Currency: Communaute Financiere Africaine franc (XOF); note -
responsible authority is the Central Bank of the West African States

Currency code: XOF

Exchange rates: Communaute Financiere Africaine francs (XOF) per US
dollar - 699.21 (January 2001), 711.98 (2000), 615.70 (1999), 589.95
(1998), 583.67 (1997), 511.55 (1996); note - from 1 January 1999,
the XOF is pegged to the euro at a rate of 655.957 XOF per euro

Fiscal year: calendar year



Mali    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 23,000 (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 2,842 (1997)

Telephone system: general assessment:  domestic system poor but
improving; provides only minimal service

domestic:  network consists of microwave radio relay, open wire, and
radiotelephone communications stations; expansion of microwave radio
relay in progress

international:  satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat (1 Atlantic
Ocean and 1 Indian Ocean)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 1, FM 14, shortwave 7 (1998)

Radios: 570,000 (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 1 (plus two repeaters) (1997)

Televisions: 45,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .ml

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 1 (2000)

Internet users: 10,000 (2000)



Mali    Transportation

Railways: total:  729 km (linked to Senegal's rail system through
Kayes)

narrow gauge:  729 km 1.000-m gauge

Highways: total:  15,100 km

paved:  1,827 km

unpaved:  13,273 km (1996)

Waterways: 1,815 km

Ports and harbors: Koulikoro

Airports: 27 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  7

2,438 to 3,047 m:  4

1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

914 to 1,523 m:  2 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  20

1,524 to 2,437 m:  4

914 to 1,523 m:  7

under 914 m:  9 (2000 est.)



Mali    Military

Military branches: Army, Air Force, Gendarmerie, Republican Guard,
National Guard, National Police (Surete Nationale)

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  2,284,632 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
1,309,612 (2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $49 million (FY96)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 2% (FY96)



Mali    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

======================================================================

@Malta




Malta    Introduction

Background: Great Britain formally acquired possession of Malta in
1814. The island staunchly supported the UK through both World Wars
and remained in the Commonwealth when it became independent in 1964.
A decade later Malta became a republic. Over the last 15 years, the
island has become a major freight transshipment point, financial
center, and tourist destination. It is an official candidate for EU
membership.



Malta    Geography

Location: Southern Europe, islands in the Mediterranean Sea, south
of Sicily (Italy)

Geographic coordinates: 35 50 N, 14 35 E

Map references: Europe

Area: total:  316 sq km

land:  316 sq km

water:  0 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly less than twice the size of Washington,
DC

Land boundaries: 0 km

Coastline: 196.8 km (does not include 56.01 km for the island of
Gozo)

Maritime claims: contiguous zone:  24 NM

continental shelf:  200-m depth or to the depth of exploitation

exclusive fishing zone:  25 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: Mediterranean with mild, rainy winters and hot, dry summers

Terrain: mostly low, rocky, flat to dissected plains; many coastal
cliffs

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Mediterranean Sea 0 m

highest point:  Ta'Dmejrek 253 m (near Dingli)

Natural resources: limestone, salt, arable land

Land use: arable land:  32%

permanent crops:  3%

permanent pastures:  0%

forests and woodland:  4%

other:  61% (2000 est.)

Irrigated land: 11.45 sq km (2000 est.)

Natural hazards: NA

Environment - current issues: very limited natural fresh water
resources; increasing reliance on desalination

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Air Pollution,
Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species,
Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Nuclear Test Ban,
Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands

signed, but not ratified:  Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol

Geography - note: the country comprises an archipelago, with only
the three largest islands (Malta, Ghawdex or Gozo, and Kemmuna or
Comino) being inhabited; numerous bays provide good harbors; Malta
and Tunisia are discussing the commercial exploitation of the
continental shelf between their countries, particularly for oil
exploration



Malta    People

Population: 394,583 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  19.98% (male 40,791; female 38,062)

15-64 years:  67.49% (male 133,914; female 132,402)

65 years and over:  12.53% (male 20,643; female 28,771) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 0.74% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 12.75 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 7.74 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 2.37 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.09 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.07 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1.01 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.72 male(s)/female

total population:  0.98 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 5.83 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  78.1 years

male:  75.64 years

female:  80.79 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 1.92 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 0.52% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: NA

HIV/AIDS - deaths: less than 100 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Maltese (singular and plural)

adjective:  Maltese

Ethnic groups: Maltese (descendants of ancient Carthaginians and
Phoenicians, with strong elements of Italian and other Mediterranean
stock)

Religions: Roman Catholic 91%

Languages: Maltese (official), English (official)

Literacy: definition:  age 10 and over can read and write

total population:  88.76%

male:  86.91%

female:  89.55% (1995 census)



Malta    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Republic of Malta

conventional short form:  Malta

local long form:  Repubblika ta' Malta

local short form:  Malta

Government type: republic

Capital: Valletta

Administrative divisions: none (administered directly from Valletta)

Independence: 21 September 1964 (from UK)

National holiday: Independence Day, 21 September (1964)

Constitution: 1964 constitution substantially amended on 13 December
1974

Legal system: based on English common law and Roman civil law;
accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction, with reservations

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Guido DE MARCO (since 4
April 1999)

head of government:  Prime Minister Eddie FENECH ADAMI (since 6
September 1998); Deputy Prime Minister Lawrence GONZE (since 4 April
1999)

cabinet:  Cabinet appointed by the president on the advice of the
prime minister

elections:  president elected by the House of Representatives for a
five-year term; election last held NA April 1999 (next to be held by
NA April 2004); following legislative elections, the leader of the
majority party or leader of a majority coalition is usually
appointed prime minister by the president for a five-year term; the
deputy prime minister is appointed by the president on the advice of
the prime minister

election results:  Guido DE MARCO elected president; percent of
House of Representatives vote - 54%

Legislative branch: unicameral House of Representatives (usually 65
seats; note - additional seats are given to the party with the
largest popular vote to ensure a legislative majority; members are
elected by popular vote on the basis of proportional representation
to serve five-year terms)

elections:  last held 5 September 1998 (next to be held by September
2003)

election results:  percent of vote by party - PN 51.8%, MLP 46.9%,
AD 1.2%; seats by party - PN 35, MLP 30

Judicial branch: Constitutional Court; Court of Appeal; judges for
both courts are appointed by the president on the advice of the
prime minister

Political parties and leaders: Alternativa Demokratika/Alliance for
Social Justice or AD [Harry VASSALLO]; Malta Labor Party or MLP
[Alfred SANT]; Nationalist Party or PN [Edward FENECH ADAMI]

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: C, CCC, CE, EBRD, ECE, EU
(applicant), FAO, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, ICRM, IFAD, IFRCS,
ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM (observer),
ISO, ITU, NAM, OPCW, OSCE, PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WCL,
WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
George SALIBA

chancery:  2017 Connecticut Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone:  [1] (202) 462-3611, 3612

FAX:  [1] (202) 387-5470

consulate(s):  New York

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
George SALIBA

embassy:  3rd Floor, Development House, Saint Anne Street, Floriana,
Malta VLT 01

mailing address:  P. O. Box 535, Valletta, Malta, CMR 01

telephone:  [356] 235960 through 235965

FAX:  [356] 243229

Flag description: two equal vertical bands of white (hoist side) and
red; in the upper hoist-side corner is a representation of the Saint
George Cross, edged in red



Malta    Economy

Economy - overview: Major resources are limestone, a favorable
geographic location, and a productive labor force. Malta produces
only about 20% of its food needs, has limited freshwater supplies,
and has no domestic energy sources. The economy is dependent on
foreign trade, manufacturing (especially electronics and textiles),
and tourism. Malta is privatizing state-controlled firms and
liberalizing markets in order to prepare for membership in the
European Union. However, the island is divided politically over the
question of joining the EU. The sizable budget deficit remains a key
concern.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $5.6 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 3.4% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $14,300 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  2.8%

industry:  25.5%

services:  71.7% (1999)

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 2.5% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 145,901 (1999)

Labor force - by occupation: industry 24%, services 71%, agriculture
5% (1999 est.)

Unemployment rate: 4.5% (3rd Quarter 2000)

Budget: revenues:  $1.6 billion

expenditures:  $1.73 billion, including capital expenditures of
$265.4 million (1999)

Industries: tourism; electronics, ship building and repair,
construction; food and beverages, textiles, footwear, clothing,
tobacco

Industrial production growth rate: NA%

Electricity - production: 1.65 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  100%

hydro:  0%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 1.534 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: potatoes, cauliflower, grapes, wheat,
barley, tomatoes, citrus, cut flowers, green peppers; pork, milk,
poultry, eggs

Exports: $2 billion (f.o.b., 1999)

Exports - commodities: machinery and transport equipment,
manufactures

Exports - partners: US 21.4%, France 15.2%, Germany 12.6%, UK 9.3%,
Italy 4.9% (1999)

Imports: $2.6 billion (f.o.b., 1999)

Imports - commodities: machinery and transport equipment,
manufactured and semi-manufactured goods; food, drink, and tobacco

Imports - partners: France 19.1%, Italy 16.7%, UK 10.9%, Germany
10.0%, US 8.5% (1999)

Debt - external: $130 million (1997)

Economic aid - recipient: $NA

Currency: Maltese lira (MTL)

Currency code: MTL

Exchange rates: Maltese liri per US dollar - 0.4370 (January 2001),
0.4376 (2000), 0.3994 (1999), 0.3885 (1998), 0.3857 (1997), 0.3604
(1996)

Fiscal year: 1 April - 31 March



Malta    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 187,000 (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 17,691 (1997)

Telephone system: general assessment:  automatic system satisfies
normal requirements

domestic:  submarine cable and microwave radio relay between islands

international:  2 submarine cables; satellite earth station - 1
Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 1, FM 18, shortwave 6 (1999)

Radios: 255,000 (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 6 (2000)

Televisions: 280,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .mt

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 2 (2000)

Internet users: 40,000 (2000)



Malta    Transportation

Railways: 0 km

Highways: total:  1,742 km

paved:  1,677 km

unpaved:  65 km (1997)

Waterways: none

Ports and harbors: Marsaxlokk, Valletta

Merchant marine: total:  1,414 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
28,191,090 GRT/46,773,603 DWT

ships by type:  bulk 443, cargo 394, chemical tanker 48, combination
bulk 12, combination ore/oil 14, container 69, liquefied gas 2,
livestock carrier 3, multi-functional large-load carrier 2,
passenger 7, passenger/cargo 1, petroleum tanker 296, refrigerated
cargo 37, roll on/roll off 50, short-sea passenger 15, specialized
tanker 3, vehicle carrier 18

note:  includes some foreign-owned ships registered here as a flag
of convenience: Argentina 1, Bermuda 1, Belgium 1, Bangladesh 2,
Bulgaria 11, China 7, Costa Rica 1, Cuba 2, Cyprus 15, Denmark 1,
Estonia 2, Finland 1, Germany 23, Greece 258, Hong Kong 3, Croatia
9, Hungary 1, India 2, Israel 2, Italy 17, South Korea 1, Lebanon 2,
Latvia 2, Lithuania 1, Monaco 14, Nigeria 1, Netherlands 10, Norway
31, Poland 8, Romania 3, Russia 39, Singapore 6, Spain 3, Sweden 3,
Syria 1, Switzerland 25, UAE 2, Turkey 24, UK 8, Ukraine 9, US 9,
Venezuela 1, Vietnam 1 (2000 est.)

Airports: 1 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  1

over 3,047 m:  1 (2000 est.)



Malta    Military

Military branches: Armed Forces (including land forces, an air
squadron, a maritime squadron, and the Revenue Security Corps),
Maltese Police Force

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  98,953 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
78,783 (2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $201 million (FY98)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 5.5% (FY98)



Malta    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

Illicit drugs: minor transshipment point for hashish from North
Africa to Western Europe

======================================================================

@Man, Isle of





Man, Isle of    Introduction

Background: Part of the Norwegian Kingdom of the Hebrides until the
13th century when it was ceded to Scotland, the isle came under the
British crown in 1765. Current concerns include reviving the almost
extinct Manx Celtic language.



Man, Isle of    Geography

Location: Western Europe, island in the Irish Sea, between Great
Britain and Ireland

Geographic coordinates: 54 15 N, 4 30 W

Map references: Europe

Area: total:  572 sq km

land:  572 sq km

water:  0 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly more than three times the size of
Washington, DC

Land boundaries: 0 km

Coastline: 160 km

Maritime claims: exclusive fishing zone:  12 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: cool summers and mild winters; temperate; overcast about
one-third of the time

Terrain: hills in north and south bisected by central valley

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Irish Sea 0 m

highest point:  Snaefell 621 m

Natural resources: none

Land use: arable land:  9%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  46%

forests and woodland:  6%

other:  39% (includes 25% mountain and heathland)

Irrigated land: 0 sq km

Natural hazards: NA

Environment - current issues: waste disposal (both household and
industrial); transboundary air pollution

Geography - note: one small islet, the Calf of Man, lies to the
southwest, and is a bird sanctuary



Man, Isle of    People

Population: 73,489 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  17.51% (male 6,562; female 6,306)

15-64 years:  65.19% (male 24,061; female 23,845)

65 years and over:  17.3% (male 5,076; female 7,639) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 0.52% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 11.58 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 11.84 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 5.44 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1.01 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.66 male(s)/female

total population:  0.94 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 6.42 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  77.64 years

male:  74.26 years

female:  81.2 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 1.65 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: NA%

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: NA

HIV/AIDS - deaths: NA

Nationality: noun:  Manxman (men), Manxwoman (women)

adjective:  Manx

Ethnic groups: Manx (Norse-Celtic descent), Briton

Religions: Anglican, Roman Catholic, Methodist, Baptist,
Presbyterian, Society of Friends

Languages: English, Manx Gaelic

Literacy: definition:  NA

total population:  NA%

male:  NA%

female:  NA%



Man, Isle of    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  none

conventional short form:  Isle of Man

Dependency status: British crown dependency

Government type: parliamentary democracy

Capital: Douglas

Administrative divisions: there are 24 local authorities each with
its own elections

Independence: none (British crown dependency)

National holiday: Tynwald Day, 5 July

Constitution: unwritten; note - The Isle of Man Constitution Act,
1961, does not embody the Manx Constitution

Legal system: English common law and Manx statute

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  Lord of Mann Queen ELIZABETH II
(since 6 February 1952), represented by Lieutenant Governor His
Excellency Sir Timothy DAUNT (since 27 October 1995)

head of government:  Chief Minister Donald GELLING (since 3 December
1996)

cabinet:  Council of Ministers

elections:  the monarch is hereditary; lieutenant governor appointed
by the monarch for a five-year term; the Chief Minister is elected
by the Tynwald; election last held 3 December 1996 (next to be held
NA 2001)

election results:  Donald GELLING elected chief minister by the
Tynwald

Legislative branch: bicameral Tynwald consists of the Legislative
Council (a 11-member body composed of the President of Tynwald, the
Lord Bishop of Sodor and Man, a nonvoting attorney general, and 8
others named by the House of Keys) and the House of Keys (24 seats;
members are elected by popular vote to serve five-year terms)

elections:  House of Keys - last held 21 November 1996 (next to be
held NA November 2001)

election results:  House of Keys - percent of vote by party - NA%;
seats by party - independents 24

Judicial branch: High Court of Justice (justices are appointed by
the Lord Chancellor of England on the nomination of the lieutenant
governor)

Political parties and leaders: there is no party system; members sit
as independents

Political pressure groups and leaders: none

International organization participation: none

Diplomatic representation in the US: none (British crown dependency)

Diplomatic representation from the US: none (British crown
dependency)

Flag description: red with the Three Legs of Man emblem (Trinacria),
in the center; the three legs are joined at the thigh and bent at
the knee; in order to have the toes pointing clockwise on both sides
of the flag, a two-sided emblem is used



Man, Isle of    Economy

Economy - overview: Offshore banking, manufacturing, and tourism are
key sectors of the economy. The government's policy of offering
incentives to high-technology companies and financial institutions
to locate on the island has paid off in expanding employment
opportunities in high-income industries. As a result, agriculture
and fishing, once the mainstays of the economy, have declined in
their shares of GDP. Banking and other services now contribute 42%
to GDP. Trade is mostly with the UK. The Isle of Man enjoys free
access to EU markets.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $1.4 billion (1999 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 13.5% (1999 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $18,800 (1999 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  1%

industry:  9%

services:  90% (1999 est.)

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 2.5% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 36,610 (1998)

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture, forestry and fishing 3%,
manufacturing 11%, construction 10%, transport and communication 8%,
wholesale and retail distribution 11%, professional and scientific
services 18%, public administration 6%, banking and finance 18%,
tourism 2%, entertainment and catering 3%, miscellaneous services 10%

Unemployment rate: 0.6% (August 2000)

Budget: revenues:  $485 million

expenditures:  $463 million, including capital expenditures of $NA
(FY00/01 est.)

Industries: financial services, light manufacturing, tourism

Industrial production growth rate: 3.2% (FY96/97)

Agriculture - products: cereals, vegetables; cattle, sheep, pigs,
poultry

Exports: $NA

Exports - commodities: tweeds, herring, processed shellfish, beef,
lamb

Exports - partners: UK

Imports: $NA

Imports - commodities: timber, fertilizers, fish

Imports - partners: UK

Debt - external: $NA

Economic aid - recipient: $NA

Currency: British pound (GBP); note - there is also a Manx pound

Currency code: GBP

Exchange rates: Manx pounds per US dollar - 0.6764 (January 2001),
0.6596 (2000), 0.6180 (1999), 0.6037 (1998), 0.6106 (1997), 0.6403
(1996); the Manx pound is at par with the British pound

Fiscal year: 1 April - 31 March



Man, Isle of    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 51,000 (1999)

Telephones - mobile cellular: NA

Telephone system: general assessment:  NA

domestic:  landline, telefax, mobile cellular telephone system

international:  fiber-optic cable, microwave radio relay, satellite
earth station, submarine cable

Radio broadcast stations: AM 1, FM 1, shortwave 0 (1998)

Radios: NA

Television broadcast stations: 0 (receives broadcasts from the UK
and satellite) (1999)

Televisions: 27,490 (1999)

Internet country code: .im

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): NA

Internet users: NA



Man, Isle of    Transportation

Railways: total:  68.5 km (43.5 km electrified)

Highways: total:  800 km

paved:  800 km

unpaved:  0 km (1999)

Waterways: none

Ports and harbors: Castletown, Douglas, Peel, Ramsey

Merchant marine: total:  157 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
4,917,402 GRT/8,333,858 DWT

ships by type:  bulk 27, cargo 13, chemical tanker 11, combination
bulk 3, container 20, liquefied gas 13, petroleum tanker 43,
refrigerated cargo 3, roll on/roll off 18, specialized tanker 1,
vehicle carrier 5

note:  includes some foreign-owned ships registered here as a flag
of convenience: Belgium 1, Denmark 1, Germany 1, Netherlands 1,
Sweden 1, UK 3 (2000 est.)

Airports: 1 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  1

1,524 to 2,437 m:  1 (2000 est.)



Man, Isle of    Military

Military - note: defense is the responsibility of the UK



Man, Isle of    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

======================================================================

@Marshall Islands




Marshall Islands    Introduction

Background: After almost four decades under US administration as the
easternmost part of the UN Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands,
the Marshall Islands attained independence in 1986 under a Compact
of Free Association. Compensation claims continue as a result of US
nuclear testing on some of the islands between 1947 and 1962.



Marshall Islands    Geography

Location: Oceania, group of atolls and reefs in the North Pacific
Ocean, about one-half of the way from Hawaii to Papua New Guinea

Geographic coordinates: 9 00 N, 168 00 E

Map references: Oceania

Area: total:  181.3 sq km

land:  181.3 sq km

water:  0 sq km

note:  includes the atolls of Bikini, Enewetak, and Kwajalein

Area - comparative: about the size of Washington, DC

Land boundaries: 0 km

Coastline: 370.4 km

Maritime claims: contiguous zone:  24 NM

exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: wet season from May to November; hot and humid; islands
border typhoon belt

Terrain: low coral limestone and sand islands

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Pacific Ocean 0 m

highest point:  unnamed location on Likiep 10 m

Natural resources: phosphate deposits, marine products, deep seabed
minerals

Land use: arable land:  0%

permanent crops:  60%

permanent pastures:  0%

forests and woodland:  0%

other:  40%

Irrigated land: NA sq km

Natural hazards: occasional typhoons

Environment - current issues: inadequate supplies of potable water

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Desertification, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer
Protection, Ship Pollution

signed, but not ratified:  Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol

Geography - note: two archipelagic island chains of 30 atolls and
1,152 islands; Bikini and Enewetak are former US nuclear test sites;
Kwajalein, the famous World War II battleground, is now used as a US
missile test range



Marshall Islands    People

Population: 70,822 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  49.29% (male 17,808; female 17,101)

15-64 years:  48.61% (male 17,573; female 16,853)

65 years and over:  2.1% (male 707; female 780) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 3.88% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 45.07 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 6.23 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.91 male(s)/female

total population:  1.04 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 39.82 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  65.84 years

male:  64.04 years

female:  67.73 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 6.55 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: NA%

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: NA

HIV/AIDS - deaths: NA

Nationality: noun:  Marshallese (singular and plural)

adjective:  Marshallese

Ethnic groups: Micronesian

Religions: Christian (mostly Protestant)

Languages: English (universally spoken and is the official
language), two major Marshallese dialects from the Malayo-Polynesian
family, Japanese

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  93%

male:  100%

female:  88% (1980 est.)



Marshall Islands    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Republic of the Marshall
Islands

conventional short form:  Marshall Islands

former:  Marshall Islands District (Trust Territory of the Pacific
Islands)

Government type: constitutional government in free association with
the US; the Compact of Free Association entered into force 21
October 1986

Capital: Majuro

Administrative divisions: 33 municipalities; Ailinginae,
Ailinglaplap, Ailuk, Arno, Aur, Bikar, Bikini, Bokak, Ebon,
Enewetak, Erikub, Jabat, Jaluit, Jemo, Kili, Kwajalein, Lae, Lib,
Likiep, Majuro, Maloelap, Mejit, Mili, Namorik, Namu, Rongelap,
Rongrik, Toke, Ujae, Ujelang, Utirik, Wotho, Wotje

Independence: 21 October 1986 (from the US-administered UN
trusteeship)

National holiday: Constitution Day, 1 May (1979)

Constitution: 1 May 1979

Legal system: based on adapted Trust Territory laws, acts of the
legislature, municipal, common, and customary laws

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Kessai Hesa NOTE (since
3 January 2000); note - the president is both the chief of state and
head of government

head of government:  President Kessai Hesa NOTE (since 3 January
2000); note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
government

cabinet:  Cabinet selected by the president from among the members
of Parliament

elections:  president elected by Parliament from among its own
members for a four-year term; election last held 15 November 1999
(next to be held NA November 2003)

election results:  Kessai Hesa NOTE elected president; percent of
Parliament vote - 100%

Legislative branch: unicameral Parliament or Nitijela (33 seats;
members elected by popular vote to serve four-year terms)

elections:  last held 15 November 1999 (next to be held NA November
2003)

election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
NA

note:  the Council of Chiefs is a 12-member body that advises on
matters affecting customary law and practice

Judicial branch: Supreme Court; High Court

Political parties and leaders: traditionally there have been no
formally organized political parties; what has existed more closely
resembles factions or interest groups because they do not have party
headquarters, formal platforms, or party structures; the following
two "groupings" have competed in legislative balloting in recent
years - Kabua Party [Imata KABUA] and United Democratic Party or UDP
[Litokwa TOMEING]

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: ACP, AsDB, ESCAP, FAO,
G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, IDA, IFC, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat
(nonsignatory user), Interpol, ITU, OPCW, Sparteca, SPC, SPF, UN,
UNCTAD, UNESCO, WHO

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Banny DE BRUM

chancery:  2433 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone:  [1] (202) 234-5414

FAX:  [1] (202) 232-3236

consulate(s) general:  Honolulu

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Joan M. PLAISTED

embassy:  Oceanside, Mejen Weto, Long Island, Majuro

mailing address:  P. O. Box 1379, Majuro, Republic of the Marshall
Islands 96960-1379

telephone:  [692] 247-4011

FAX:  [692] 247-4012

Flag description: blue with two stripes radiating from the lower
hoist-side corner - orange (top) and white; there is a white star
with four large rays and 20 small rays on the hoist side above the
two stripes



Marshall Islands    Economy

Economy - overview: US Government assistance is the mainstay of this
tiny island economy. Agricultural production is concentrated on
small farms, and the most important commercial crops are coconuts,
tomatoes, melons, and breadfruit. Small-scale industry is limited to
handicrafts, fish processing, and copra. The tourist industry, now a
small source of foreign exchange employing less than 10% of the
labor force, remains the best hope for future added income. The
islands have few natural resources, and imports far exceed exports.
Under the terms of the Compact of Free Association, the US provides
roughly $65 million in annual aid. Negotiations were underway in
1999 for an extended agreement. Government downsizing, drought, a
drop in construction, and the decline in tourism and foreign
investment due to the Asian financial difficulties caused GDP to
fall in 1996-98.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $105 million (1998 est.),
supplemented by approximately $65 million annual US aid

GDP - real growth rate: -5% (1998 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $1,670 (1998 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  15%

industry:  13%

services:  72% (1995)

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 5% (1997)

Labor force: NA

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture NA%, industry NA%, services
NA%

Unemployment rate: 16% (1991 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $80.1 million

expenditures:  $77.4 million, including capital expenditures of
$19.5 million (FY95/96 est.)

Industries: copra, fish, tourism, craft items from shell, wood, and
pearls, offshore banking (embryonic)

Industrial production growth rate: NA%

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  NA%

hydro:  NA%

nuclear:  NA%

other:  NA%

Agriculture - products: coconuts, tomatoes, melons, cacao, taro,
breadfruit, fruits; pigs, chickens

Exports: $28 million (f.o.b., 1997 est.)

Exports - commodities: fish, coconut oil, trochus shells

Exports - partners: US, Japan, Australia

Imports: $58 million (f.o.b., 1997 est.)

Imports - commodities: foodstuffs, machinery and equipment, fuels,
beverages and tobacco

Imports - partners: US, Japan, Australia, NZ, Guam, Singapore

Debt - external: $125 million (FY96/97 est.)

Economic aid - recipient: approximately $65 million annually from
the US

Currency: US dollar (USD)

Currency code: USD

Exchange rates: the US dollar is used

Fiscal year: 1 October - 30 September



Marshall Islands    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 3,000 (1996)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 365 (1996)

Telephone system: general assessment:  telex services

domestic:  Majuro Atoll and Ebeye and Kwajalein islands have
regular, seven-digit, direct-dial telephones; other islands
interconnected by shortwave radiotelephone (used mostly for
government purposes)

international:  satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat (Pacific
Ocean); US Government satellite communications system on Kwajalein

Radio broadcast stations: AM 3, FM 4, shortwave 0 (1998)

Radios: NA

Television broadcast stations: 3 (of which two are US military
stations) (1997)

Televisions: NA

Internet country code: .mh

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 1 (2000)

Internet users: 500 (2000)



Marshall Islands    Transportation

Railways: 0 km

Highways: total:  NA km

paved:  NA km

unpaved:  NA km

note:  paved roads on major islands (Majuro, Kwajalein), otherwise
stone-, coral-, or laterite-surfaced roads and tracks

Waterways: none

Ports and harbors: Majuro

Merchant marine: total:  212 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
9,768,406 GRT/16,242,699 DWT

ships by type:  bulk 63, cargo 9, chemical tanker 10, combination
ore/oil 2, container 29, liquefied gas 10, multi-functional
large-load carrier 1, petroleum tanker 87, vehicle carrier 1

note:  includes some foreign-owned ships registered here as a flag
of convenience: Cyprus 1, Germany 1, Japan 1, US 6 (2000 est.)

Airports: 16 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  4

1,524 to 2,437 m:  3

914 to 1,523 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  12

914 to 1,523 m:  9

under 914 m:  3 (2000 est.)



Marshall Islands    Military

Military branches: no regular military forces (a coast guard may be
established); Police Force

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $NA

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: NA%

Military - note: defense is the responsibility of the US



Marshall Islands    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: claims US territory of Wake Island

======================================================================

@Martinique





Martinique    Introduction

Background: Colonized by France in 1635, the island has subsequently
remained a French possession except for three brief periods of
foreign occupation.



Martinique    Geography

Location: Caribbean, island in the Caribbean Sea, north of Trinidad
and Tobago

Geographic coordinates: 14 40 N, 61 00 W

Map references: Central America and the Caribbean

Area: total:  1,100 sq km

land:  1,060 sq km

water:  40 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly more than six times the size of
Washington, DC

Land boundaries: 0 km

Coastline: 350 km

Maritime claims: exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: tropical; moderated by trade winds; rainy season (June to
October); vulnerable to devastating cyclones (hurricanes) every
eight years on average; average temperature 17.3 degrees C; humid

Terrain: mountainous with indented coastline; dormant volcano

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Caribbean Sea 0 m

highest point:  Montagne Pelee 1,397 m

Natural resources: coastal scenery and beaches, cultivable land

Land use: arable land:  8%

permanent crops:  8%

permanent pastures:  17%

forests and woodland:  44%

other:  23% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 40 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: hurricanes, flooding, and volcanic activity (an
average of one major natural disaster every five years)

Environment - current issues: NA



Martinique    People

Population: 418,454 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  23.1% (male 49,016; female 47,653)

15-64 years:  66.77% (male 139,106; female 140,291)

65 years and over:  10.13% (male 18,893; female 23,495) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 0.93% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 15.76 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 6.39 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: -0.08 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.02 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.03 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  0.99 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.8 male(s)/female

total population:  0.98 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 7.8 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  78.41 years

male:  79.11 years

female:  77.69 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 1.8 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: NA%

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: NA

HIV/AIDS - deaths: NA

Nationality: noun:  Martiniquais (singular and plural)

adjective:  Martiniquais

Ethnic groups: African and African-white-Indian mixture 90%, white
5%, East Indian, Chinese less than 5%

Religions: Roman Catholic 95%, Hindu and pagan African 5%

Languages: French, Creole patois

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  93%

male:  92%

female:  93% (1982 est.)



Martinique    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Department of Martinique

conventional short form:  Martinique

local long form:  Departement de la Martinique

local short form:  Martinique

Dependency status: overseas department of France

Government type: NA

Capital: Fort-de-France

Administrative divisions: none (overseas department of France)

Independence: none (overseas department of France)

National holiday: Bastille Day, 14 July (1789)

Constitution: 28 September 1958 (French Constitution)

Legal system: French legal system

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Jacques CHIRAC of
France (since 17 May 1995); Prefect Jean-Francois CORDET (since NA)

head of government:  President of the General Council Claude LISE
(since 22 March 1992); President of the Regional Council Alfred
MARIE-JEANNE (since NA March 1998)

cabinet:  NA

elections:  French president elected by popular vote for a
seven-year term; prefect appointed by the French president on the
advice of the French Ministry of Interior; the presidents of the
General and Regional Councils are elected by the members of those
councils

Legislative branch: unicameral General Council or Conseil General
(45 seats; members are elected by popular vote to serve six-year
terms) and a unicameral Regional Assembly or Conseil Regional (41
seats; members are elected by popular vote to serve six-year terms)

elections:  General Council - last held NA March 2000 (next to be
held NA 2006); Regional Assembly - last held on 15 March 1998 (next
to be held by March 2004)

election results:  General Council - percent of vote by party - NA%;
seats by party - NA; note - the PPM won a plurality; Regional
Assembly - percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party - RPR-UDF
14, MIM 13, PPM 7, left parties 4, PMS 3

note:  Martinique elects 2 seats to the French Senate; elections
last held NA September 1998 (next to be held September 2001);
results - percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party - PPM 2;
Martinique also elects 4 seats to the French National Assembly;
elections last held 1 June 1997 (next to be held NA 2002); results -
percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party - RPR 2, PS 1,
independent 1

Judicial branch: Court of Appeal or Cour d'Appel

Political parties and leaders: Martinique Independence Movement or
MIM [Alfred MARIE-JEANNE]; Martinique Progressive Party or PPM
[Camille DARSIERES]; Martinique Socialist Party or PMS [Ernest
WAN-AJOUHU]; Rally for the Republic or RPR [Michel CHARLONE]; Union
for French Democracy or UDF (replaced by Martinique Forces of
Progress) [Jean MAREN]

Political pressure groups and leaders: Association for the
Protection of Martinique's Heritage (ecologist) [Garcin MALSA];
Caribbean Revolutionary Alliance or ARC; Central Union for
Martinique Workers or CSTM [Marc PULVAR]; Frantz Fanon Circle;
League of Workers and Peasants; Proletarian Action Group or GAP;
Socialist Revolution Group or GRS [Philippe PIERRE-CHARLES]

International organization participation: FZ, WCL, WFTU

Diplomatic representation in the US: none (overseas department of
France)

Diplomatic representation from the US: none (overseas department of
France)

Flag description: a light blue background is divided into four
quadrants by a white cross; in the center of each rectangle is a
white snake; the flag of France is used for official occasions



Martinique    Economy

Economy - overview: The economy is based on sugarcane, bananas,
tourism, and light industry. Agriculture accounts for about 6% of
GDP and the small industrial sector for 11%. Sugar production has
declined, with most of the sugarcane now used for the production of
rum. Banana exports are increasing, going mostly to France. The bulk
of meat, vegetable, and grain requirements must be imported,
contributing to a chronic trade deficit that requires large annual
transfers of aid from France. Tourism has become more important than
agricultural exports as a source of foreign exchange. The majority
of the work force is employed in the service sector and in
administration.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $4.39 billion (1997 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: NA%

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $11,000 (1997 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  6%

industry:  11%

services:  83% (1997 est.)

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 3.9% (1990)

Labor force: 170,000 (1997)

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture 10%, industry 17%, services
73% (1997)

Unemployment rate: 27.2% (1998)

Budget: revenues:  $900 million

expenditures:  $2.5 billion, including capital expenditures of $140
million (1996)

Industries: construction, rum, cement, oil refining, sugar, tourism

Industrial production growth rate: NA%

Electricity - production: 1.1 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  100%

hydro:  0%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 1.023 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: pineapples, avocados, bananas, flowers,
vegetables, sugarcane

Exports: $250 million (f.o.b., 1997)

Exports - commodities: refined petroleum products, bananas, rum,
pineapples

Exports - partners: France 45%, Guadeloupe 28% (1997)

Imports: $2 billion (c.i.f., 1997)

Imports - commodities: petroleum products, crude oil, foodstuffs,
construction materials, vehicles, clothing and other consumer goods

Imports - partners: France 62%, Venezuela 6%, Germany 4%, Italy 4%,
US 3% (1997)

Debt - external: $180 million (1994)

Economic aid - recipient: $NA; note - substantial annual aid from
France

Currency: French franc (FRF); euro (EUR)

Currency code: FRF; EUR

Exchange rates: euros per US dollar - 1.0659 (January 2001), 1.0854
(2000), 0.9386 (1999); French francs per US dollar - 5.8995 (1998),
5.8367 (1997), 5.1155 (1996)

Fiscal year: calendar year



Martinique    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 170,000 (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 15,000 (1997)

Telephone system: general assessment:  domestic facilities are
adequate

domestic:  NA

international:  microwave radio relay to Guadeloupe, Dominica, and
Saint Lucia; satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 0, FM 14, shortwave 0 (1998)

Radios: 82,000 (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 11 (plus nine repeaters) (1997)

Televisions: 66,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .mq

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 2 (2000)

Internet users: 5,000 (2000)



Martinique    Transportation

Railways: 0 km

Highways: total:  2,105 km (2000)

paved:  NA km

unpaved:  NA km

Waterways: none

Ports and harbors: Fort-de-France, La Trinite

Merchant marine: none (2000 est.)

Airports: 2 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  1

over 3,047 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  1

under 914 m:  1 (2000 est.)



Martinique    Military

Military branches: French forces (Army, Navy, Air Force), Gendarmerie

Military - note: defense is the responsibility of France



Martinique    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

Illicit drugs: transshipment point for cocaine and marijuana bound
for the US and Europe

======================================================================

@Mauritania




Mauritania    Introduction

Background: Independent from France in 1960, Mauritania annexed the
southern third of the former Spanish Sahara (now Western Sahara) in
1976, but relinquished it after three years of raids by the
Polisario guerrilla front seeking independence for the territory.
Opposition parties were legalized and a new constitution approved in
1991. Two multiparty presidential elections since then were widely
seen as being flawed; Mauritania remains, in reality, a one-party
state. The country continues to experience ethnic tensions between
its black minority population and the dominant Maur (Arab-Berber)
populace.



Mauritania    Geography

Location: Northern Africa, bordering the North Atlantic Ocean,
between Senegal and Western Sahara

Geographic coordinates: 20 00 N, 12 00 W

Map references: Africa

Area: total:  1,030,700 sq km

land:  1,030,400 sq km

water:  300 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly larger than three times the size of New
Mexico

Land boundaries: total:  5,074 km

border countries:  Algeria 463 km, Mali 2,237 km, Senegal 813 km,
Western Sahara 1,561 km

Coastline: 754 km

Maritime claims: contiguous zone:  24 NM

continental shelf:  200 NM or to the edge of the continental margin

exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: desert; constantly hot, dry, dusty

Terrain: mostly barren, flat plains of the Sahara; some central hills

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Sebkha de Ndrhamcha -3 m

highest point:  Kediet Ijill 910 m

Natural resources: iron ore, gypsum, fish, copper, phosphate,
diamonds, gold

Land use: arable land:  0%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  38%

forests and woodland:  4%

other:  58% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 490 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: hot, dry, dust/sand-laden sirocco wind blows
primarily in March and April; periodic droughts

Environment - current issues: overgrazing, deforestation, and soil
erosion aggravated by drought are contributing to desertification;
very limited natural fresh water resources away from the Senegal
which is the only perennial river

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous
Wastes, Law of the Sea, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection,
Ship Pollution, Wetlands

signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Geography - note: most of the population concentrated in the cities
of Nouakchott and Nouadhibou and along the Senegal River in the
southern part of the country



Mauritania    People

Population: 2,747,312 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  46.14% (male 634,940; female 632,654)

15-64 years:  51.59% (male 698,433; female 718,883)

65 years and over:  2.27% (male 25,840; female 36,562) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 2.93% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 42.95 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 13.65 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.03 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  0.97 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.71 male(s)/female

total population:  0.98 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 76.7 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  51.14 years

male:  49.06 years

female:  53.29 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 6.22 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 1.8% (2000 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 6,600 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: 610 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Mauritanian(s)

adjective:  Mauritanian

Ethnic groups: mixed Maur/black 40%, Maur 30%, black 30%

Religions: Muslim 100%

Languages: Hasaniya Arabic (official), Pular, Soninke, Wolof
(official), French

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  46.7%

male:  53.4%

female:  40% (1998 est.)



Mauritania    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Islamic Republic of Mauritania

conventional short form:  Mauritania

local long form:  Al Jumhuriyah al Islamiyah al Muritaniyah

local short form:  Muritaniyah

Government type: republic

Capital: Nouakchott

Administrative divisions: 12 regions (regions, singular - region)
and 1 capital district*; Adrar, Assaba, Brakna, Dakhlet Nouadhibou,
Gorgol, Guidimaka, Hodh Ech Chargui, Hodh El Gharbi, Inchiri,
Nouakchott*, Tagant, Tiris Zemmour, Trarza

Independence: 28 November 1960 (from France)

National holiday: Independence Day, 28 November (1960)

Constitution: 12 July 1991

Legal system: a combination of Shari'a (Islamic law) and French
civil law

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Col. Maaouya Ould Sid
Ahmed TAYA (since 12 December 1984)

head of government:  Prime Minister Cheik El Avia Ould Mohamed
KHOUNA (since 17 November 1998)

cabinet:  Council of Ministers

elections:  president elected by popular vote for a six-year term;
election last held 12 December 1997 (next to be held NA December
2003); prime minister appointed by the president

election results:  President Col. Maaouya Ould Sid Ahmed TAYA
reelected with 90.9% of the vote

Legislative branch: bicameral legislature consists of the Senate or
Majlis al-Shuyukh (56 seats; 17 up for election every two years;
members elected by municipal leaders to serve six-year terms) and
the National Assembly or Majlis al-Watani (79 seats; members elected
by popular vote to serve five-year terms)

elections:  Senate - last held 17 April 1998 (next to be held NA
2001); National Assembly - last held 11 and 18 October 1996 (next to
be held NA 2001)

election results:  Senate - percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by
party - NA; National Assembly - percent of vote by party - NA%;
seats by party - PRDS 71, AC 1, independents and other 7

Judicial branch: Supreme Court or Cour Supreme; Court of Appeals;
lower courts

Political parties and leaders: Action for Change or AC [Messoud Ould
BOULKHEIR]; Assembly for Democracy and Unity or RDU [Ahmed Ould SIDI
BABA]; Democratic and Social Republican Party or PRDS (ruling party)
[President Col. Maaouya Ould Sid Ahmed TAYA]; Mauritanian Party for
Renewal and Concorde or PMRC [Molaye El Hassen Ould JIYID]; National
Union for Democracy and Development or UNDD [Tidjane KOITA]; Party
for Liberty, Equality and Justice or PLEJ [Daouda M'BAGNIGA];
Popular Front or FP [Ch'bih Ould CHEIKH MALAININE]; Popular Progress
Alliance or APP [Mohamed El Hafed Ould ISMAEL]; Popular Social and
Democratic Union or UPSD [Mohamed Mahmoud Ould MAH]; Progress Force
Union or UFP [Mohamed Ould MOLOUD]; Union for Progress and Democracy
or UNDD [Naha Mint MOUKNASS]

note:  parties legalized by constitution ratified 12 July 1991;
however, politics continue to be tribally based

Political pressure groups and leaders: Arab nationalists;
Ba'athists; General Confederation of Mauritanian Workers or CGTM
[Abdallahi Ould MOHAMED, secretary general]; Independent
Confederation of Mauritanian Workers or CLTM [Samory Ould BEYE];
Islamists; Mauritanian Workers Union or UTM [Mohamed Ely Ould
BRAHIM, secretary general]

International organization participation: ABEDA, ACCT (associate),
ACP, AfDB, AFESD, AL, AMF, AMU, CAEU, CCC, ECA, ECOWAS, FAO, G-77,
IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO (pending
member), ILO, IMF, IMO, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, ITU, NAM, OAU, OIC,
OPCW, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Ahmed Ben Khalifa BEN JIDOU

chancery:  2129 Leroy Place NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone:  [1] (202) 232-5700

FAX:  [1] (202) 319-2623

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
John W. LIMBERT

embassy:  Rue Abdallaye, Nouakchott

mailing address:  B. P. 222, Nouakchott

telephone:  [222] 25-26-60, 25-26-63

FAX:  [222] 25-15-92

Flag description: green with a yellow five-pointed star above a
yellow, horizontal crescent; the closed side of the crescent is
down; the crescent, star, and color green are traditional symbols of
Islam



Mauritania    Economy

Economy - overview: A majority of the population still depends on
agriculture and livestock for a livelihood, even though most of the
nomads and many subsistence farmers were forced into the cities by
recurrent droughts in the 1970s and 1980s. Mauritania has extensive
deposits of iron ore, which account for half of total exports. The
decline in world demand for this ore, however, has led to cutbacks
in production. The nation's coastal waters are among the richest
fishing areas in the world, but overexploitation by foreigners
threatens this key source of revenue. The country's first deepwater
port opened near Nouakchott in 1986. In the past, drought and
economic mismanagement have resulted in a buildup of foreign debt.
In March 1999, the government signed an agreement with a joint World
Bank-IMF mission on a $54 million enhanced structural adjustment
facility (ESAF). Mauritania withdrew its membership in the Economic
Community of West African States (ECOWAS) in 2000. Privatization and
debt relief are in full swing, and the rate of economic growth
appears to be accelerating, especially in the construction,
telecommunication, and information sectors. Diamonds and petroleum
are beginning to be explored and exploited.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $5.4 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 5% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $2,000 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  25%

industry:  31%

services:  44% (1997)

Population below poverty line: 50% (1996 est.)

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:
2.3%

highest 10%:  29.9% (1995)

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 4.5% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 750,000 (1999)

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture 47%, services 39%, industry
14%

Unemployment rate: 23% (1995 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $329 million

expenditures:  $265 million, including capital expenditures of $75
million (1996 est.)

Industries: fish processing, mining of iron ore and gypsum

Industrial production growth rate: 2.2% (1999)

Electricity - production: 151 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  82.78%

hydro:  17.22%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 140.4 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: dates, millet, sorghum, rice, corn, dates;
cattle, sheep

Exports: $333 million (f.o.b., 1999)

Exports - commodities: iron ore, fish and fish products, gold

Exports - partners: Japan 18%, France 17%, Italy 16%, Spain 11%
(1998)

Imports: $305 million (f.o.b., 1999)

Imports - commodities: machinery and equipment, petroleum products,
capital goods, foodstuffs, consumer goods

Imports - partners: France 27%, Benelux 9%, Germany 7%, Spain 7%
(1998)

Debt - external: $2.1 billion (1999)

Economic aid - recipient: $300 million (1998)

Currency: ouguiya (MRO)

Currency code: MRO

Exchange rates: ouguiyas per US dollar - 250.870 (December 2000),
238.923 (2000), 209.514 (1999), 188.476 (1998), 151.853 (1997),
137.222 (1996)

Fiscal year: calendar year



Mauritania    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 26,000 (2000)

Telephones - mobile cellular: NA

Telephone system: general assessment:  limited system of cable and
open-wire lines, minor microwave radio relay links, and
radiotelephone communications stations (improvements being made)

domestic:  mostly cable and open-wire lines; a recently completed
domestic satellite telecommunications system links Nouakchott with
regional capitals

international:  satellite earth stations - 1 Intelsat (Atlantic
Ocean) and 2 Arabsat

Radio broadcast stations: AM 1, FM 2, shortwave 1 (1998)

Radios: 360,000 (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 1 (1997)

Televisions: 87,000 (1998)

Internet country code: .mr

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 5 (2000)

Internet users: 3,500 (2000)



Mauritania    Transportation

Railways: total:  750 km (single track); note - owned and operated
by government mining company

standard gauge:  750 km 1.435-m gauge (1995)

Highways: total:  7,660 km

paved:  866 km

unpaved:  6,794 km (1996)

Waterways: note:  ferry traffic on the Senegal River

Ports and harbors: Bogue, Kaedi, Nouadhibou, Nouakchott, Rosso

Merchant marine: none (2000 est.)

Airports: 26 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  8

2,438 to 3,047 m:  3

1,524 to 2,437 m:  5 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  18

2,438 to 3,047 m:  2

1,524 to 2,437 m:  4

914 to 1,523 m:  9

under 914 m:  3 (2000 est.)



Mauritania    Military

Military branches: Army, Navy, Air Force, National Gendarmerie,
National Guard, National Police, Presidential Guard

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  624,375 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
302,699 (2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $41 million (FY97/98)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 2.7% (FY97/98)



Mauritania    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

======================================================================

@Mauritius




Mauritius    Introduction

Background: Discovered by the Portuguese in 1505, Mauritius was
subsequently held by the Dutch, French, and British before
independence was attained in 1968. A stable democracy with regular
free elections and a positive human rights record, the country has
attracted considerable foreign investment and has earned one of
Africa's highest per capita incomes. Recent poor weather and
declining sugar prices have slowed economic growth leading to some
protests over standards of living in the Creole community.



Mauritius    Geography

Location: Southern Africa, island in the Indian Ocean, east of
Madagascar

Geographic coordinates: 20 17 S, 57 33 E

Map references: World

Area: total:  1,860 sq km

land:  1,850 sq km

water:  10 sq km

note:  includes Agalega Islands, Cargados Carajos Shoals (Saint
Brandon), and Rodrigues

Area - comparative: almost 11 times the size of Washington, DC

Land boundaries: 0 km

Coastline: 177 km

Maritime claims: continental shelf:  200 NM or to the edge of the
continental margin

exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: tropical, modified by southeast trade winds; warm, dry
winter (May to November); hot, wet, humid summer (November to May)

Terrain: small coastal plain rising to discontinuous mountains
encircling central plateau

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Indian Ocean 0 m

highest point:  Mont Piton 828 m

Natural resources: arable land, fish

Land use: arable land:  49%

permanent crops:  3%

permanent pastures:  3%

forests and woodland:  22%

other:  23% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 170 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: cyclones (November to April); almost completely
surrounded by reefs that may pose maritime hazards

Environment - current issues: water pollution, degradation of coral
reefs

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental
Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Life
Conservation, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship
Pollution

signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements



Mauritius    People

Population: 1,189,825 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  25.53% (male 153,691; female 150,094)

15-64 years:  68.24% (male 404,940; female 407,056)

65 years and over:  6.23% (male 29,588; female 44,456) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 0.88% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 16.5 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 6.82 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: -0.92 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.02 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.02 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  0.99 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.67 male(s)/female

total population:  0.98 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 17.19 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  71.25 years

male:  67.26 years

female:  75.31 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 2.01 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 0.08% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: NA

HIV/AIDS - deaths: NA

Nationality: noun:  Mauritian(s)

adjective:  Mauritian

Ethnic groups: Indo-Mauritian 68%, Creole 27%, Sino-Mauritian 3%,
Franco-Mauritian 2%

Religions: Hindu 52%, Christian 28.3% (Roman Catholic 26%,
Protestant 2.3%), Muslim 16.6%, other 3.1%

Languages: English (official), Creole, French, Hindi, Urdu, Hakka,
Bojpoori

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  82.9%

male:  87.1%

female:  78.8% (1995 est.)



Mauritius    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Republic of Mauritius

conventional short form:  Mauritius

Government type: parliamentary democracy

Capital: Port Louis

Administrative divisions: 9 districts and 3 dependencies*; Agalega
Islands*, Black River, Cargados Carajos Shoals*, Flacq, Grand Port,
Moka, Pamplemousses, Plaines Wilhems, Port Louis, Riviere du
Rempart, Rodrigues*, Savanne

Independence: 12 March 1968 (from UK)

National holiday: Independence Day, 12 March (1968)

Constitution: 12 March 1968; amended 12 March 1992

Legal system: based on French civil law system with elements of
English common law in certain areas

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Cassam UTEEM (since 1
July 1992) and Vice President Angidi Verriah CHETTIAR (since 28 June
1997)

head of government:  Prime Minister Sir Anerood JUGNAUTH (since 17
September 2000) and Deputy Prime Minister Paul BERENGER (since 17
September 2000)

cabinet:  Council of Ministers appointed by the president on the
recommendation of the prime minister

elections:  president and vice president elected by the National
Assembly for five-year terms; election last held 28 June 1997 (next
to be held NA 2002); prime minister and deputy prime minister
appointed by the president and are responsible to the National
Assembly

election results:  Cassam UTEEM reelected president and Angidi
Verriah CHETTIAR elected vice president; percent of vote by the
National Assembly - NA%

Legislative branch: unicameral National Assembly (66 seats - 62
elected by popular vote, 4 appointed by the election commission from
the losing political parties to give representation to various
ethnic minorities; members serve five-year terms)

elections:  last held on 11 September 2000 (next to be held by
September 2005)

election results:  percent of vote by party - MSM/MMM 52.3%,
MLP/PMSD 36.9%, OPR 10.8%; seats by party - MSM/MMM 54, MLP/PMSD 6,
OPR 2

Judicial branch: Supreme Court

Political parties and leaders: Hizbullah [Cehl Mohamed FAKEEMEEAH];
Mauritian Labor Party or MLP [Navinchandra RAMGOOLAM]; Mauritian
Militant Movement or MMM [Paul BERENGER] - in coalition with MSM;
Mauritian Militant Renaissance or MMR [Dr. Paramhansa NABABSING];
Mauritian Social Democrat Party or PMSD [Charles Xavier-Luc DUVAL];
Militant Socialist Movement or MSM [Sir Anerood JUGNAUTH] -
governing party; Rodrigues Movement or OPR [Joseph (Nicholas) Von
MALLY]

Political pressure groups and leaders: various labor unions

International organization participation: ACCT, ACP, AfDB, C, CCC,
ECA, FAO, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC,
IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, InOC, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, ISO,
ITU, NAM, OAU, OPCW, SADC, UN, UN Security Council (temporary),
UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Usha JEETAH

chancery:  Suite 441, 4301 Connecticut Avenue NW, Washington, DC
20008

telephone:  [1] (202) 244-1491, 1492

FAX:  [1] (202) 966-0983

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Mark W. ERWIN

embassy:  4th Floor, Rogers House, John Kennedy Street, Port Louis

mailing address:  international mail: P. O. Box 544, Port Louis; US
mail: American Embassy, Port Louis, Department of State, Washington,
DC 20521-2450

telephone:  [230] 208-2347, 208-2354, 208-9763 through 9767

FAX:  [230] 208-9534

Flag description: four equal horizontal bands of red (top), blue,
yellow, and green



Mauritius    Economy

Economy - overview: Since independence in 1968, Mauritius has
developed from a low-income, agriculturally based economy to a
middle-income diversified economy with growing industrial,
financial, and tourist sectors. For most of the period, annual
growth has been in the order of 5% to 6%. This remarkable
achievement has been reflected in increased life expectancy, lowered
infant mortality, and a much-improved infrastructure. Sugarcane is
grown on about 90% of the cultivated land area and accounts for 25%
of export earnings. The government's development strategy centers on
foreign investment. Mauritius has attracted more than 9,000 offshore
entities, many aimed at commerce in India and South Africa, and
investment in the banking sector alone has reached over $1 billion.
Economic performance since 1991 has continued strong with solid
growth and low unemployment.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $12.3 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 7.5% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $10,400 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  10%

industry:  29%

services:  61% (1996)

Population below poverty line: 10.6% (1992 est.)

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 5.3% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 514,000 (1995)

Labor force - by occupation: construction and industry 36%, services
24%, agriculture and fishing 14%, trade, restaurants, hotels 16%,
transportation and communication 7%, finance 3% (1995)

Unemployment rate: 6.4% (1999 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $1.1 billion

expenditures:  $1.2 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
(1999 est.)

Industries: food processing (largely sugar milling), textiles,
clothing; chemicals, metal products, transport equipment,
nonelectrical machinery; tourism

Industrial production growth rate: 8% (2000 est.)

Electricity - production: 1.26 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  91.27%

hydro:  8.73%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 1.172 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: sugarcane, tea, corn, potatoes, bananas,
pulses; cattle, goats; fish

Exports: $1.6 billion (f.o.b., 1999)

Exports - commodities: clothing and textiles, sugar, cut flowers,
molasses

Exports - partners: UK 32%, France 19%, US 15%, Germany 6%, Italy 4%
(1999 est.)

Imports: $2.3 billion (f.o.b., 1999)

Imports - commodities: manufactured goods, capital equipment,
foodstuffs, petroleum products, chemicals (1996)

Imports - partners: France 14%, South Africa 11%, India 8%, UK 5%
(1999 est.)

Debt - external: $1.9 billion (1998 est.)

Economic aid - recipient: $42 million (1997)

Currency: Mauritian rupee (MUR)

Currency code: MUR

Exchange rates: Mauritian rupees per US dollar - 27.900 (January
2001), 26.250 (2000), 25.186 (1999), 22.993 (1998), 21.057 (1997),
17.948 (1996)

Fiscal year: 1 July - 30 June



Mauritius    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 223,000 (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 37,000 (1997)

Telephone system: general assessment:  small system with good service

domestic:  primarily microwave radio relay

international:  satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (Indian Ocean);
new microwave link to Reunion; HF radiotelephone links to several
countries

Radio broadcast stations: AM 5, FM 9, shortwave 2 (1998)

Radios: 420,000 (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 2 (plus 11 repeaters) (1997)

Televisions: 258,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .mu

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 2 (2000)

Internet users: 55,000 (2000)



Mauritius    Transportation

Railways: 0 km

Highways: total:  1,910 km

paved:  1,834 km (including 36 km of expressways)

unpaved:  76 km (1998)

Waterways: none

Ports and harbors: Port Louis

Merchant marine: total:  9 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 61,909
GRT/87,313 DWT

ships by type:  cargo 2, combination bulk 2, container 2, liquefied
gas 1, refrigerated cargo 2

note:  includes a foreign-owned ship registered here as a flag of
convenience: India 1 (2000 est.)

Airports: 5 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  2

over 3,047 m:  1

914 to 1,523 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  3

914 to 1,523 m:  1

under 914 m:  2 (2000 est.)



Mauritius    Military

Military branches: National Police Force (includes the paramilitary
Special Mobile Force or SMF and National Coast Guard)

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  339,473 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
171,206 (2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $11 million (FY97/98)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 0.3% (FY97/98)



Mauritius    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: claims the Chagos Archipelago
(UK-administered British Indian Ocean Territory); claims
French-administered Tromelin Island

Illicit drugs: minor consumer and transshipment point for heroin
from South Asia; small amounts of cannabis produced and consumed
locally

======================================================================

@Mayotte





Mayotte    Introduction

Background: Mayotte was ceded to France along with the other Comoros
in 1843. It was the only island in the archipelago that voted in
1974 to retain its link with France and forgo independence.



Mayotte    Geography

Location: Southern Africa, island in the Mozambique Channel, about
one-half of the way from northern Madagascar to northern Mozambique

Geographic coordinates: 12 50 S, 45 10 E

Map references: Africa

Area: total:  374 sq km

land:  374 sq km

water:  0 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly more than twice the size of Washington,
DC

Land boundaries: 0 km

Coastline: 185.2 km

Maritime claims: exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: tropical; marine; hot, humid, rainy season during
northeastern monsoon (November to May); dry season is cooler (May to
November)

Terrain: generally undulating, with deep ravines and ancient
volcanic peaks

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Indian Ocean 0 m

highest point:  Benara 660 m

Natural resources: NEGL

Land use: arable land:  NA%

permanent crops:  NA%

permanent pastures:  NA%

forests and woodland:  NA%

other:  NA%

Irrigated land: NA sq km

Natural hazards: cyclones during rainy season

Environment - current issues: NA

Geography - note: part of Comoro Archipelago; 18 islands



Mayotte    People

Population: 163,366 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  46.59% (male 38,188; female 37,920)

15-64 years:  51.73% (male 46,132; female 38,378)

65 years and over:  1.68% (male 1,361; female 1,387) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 4.58% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 44.39 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 8.84 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 10.28 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.03 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.01 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1.2 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.98 male(s)/female

total population:  1.1 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 69.54 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  59.83 years

male:  57.77 years

female:  61.96 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 6.24 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: NA%

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: NA

HIV/AIDS - deaths: NA

Nationality: noun:  Mahorais (singular and plural)

adjective:  Mahoran

Ethnic groups: NA

Religions: Muslim 97%, Christian (mostly Roman Catholic)

Languages: Mahorian (a Swahili dialect), French (official language)
spoken by 35% of the population

Literacy: definition:  NA

total population:  NA%

male:  NA%

female:  NA%



Mayotte    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Territorial Collectivity of
Mayotte

conventional short form:  Mayotte

Dependency status: territorial collectivity of France

Government type: NA

Capital: Mamoutzou

Administrative divisions: none (territorial collectivity of France)

Independence: none (territorial collectivity of France)

National holiday: Bastille Day, 14 July (1789)

Constitution: 28 September 1958 (French Constitution)

Legal system: French law

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Jacques CHIRAC of
France (since 17 May 1995), represented by Prefect Pierre BAYLE
(since 15 July 1998)

head of government:  President of the General Council Younoussa
BAMANA (since NA 1977)

cabinet:  NA

elections:  French president elected by popular vote for a
seven-year term; prefect appointed by the French president on the
advice of the French Ministry of the Interior; president of the
General Council elected by the members of the General Council for a
six-year term

Legislative branch: unicameral General Council or Conseil General
(19 seats; members are elected by popular vote to serve three-year
terms)

elections:  last held 7 October 2000 (next to be held NA 2003)

election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
NA

note:  Mayotte elects one member of the French Senate; elections
last held 24 September 1995 (next to be held 24 September 2001);
results - percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party - MPM 1;
Mayotte also elects one member to the French National Assembly;
elections last held 25 May and 1 June 1997 (next to be held as a
special election on NA May 2002); results - percent of vote by party
- UDF/FD 51.7%, RPR 48.3%; seats by party - UDF/FD 1

Judicial branch: Supreme Court or Tribunal Superieur d'Appel

Political parties and leaders: Democratic Front or FD [Youssouf
MOUSSA]; Mahoran Popular Movement or MPM [Younoussa BAMANA]; Mahoran
Rally for the Republic or RPR [Mansour KAMARDINE]; Movement for
Department Status Mayotte or MDM [Henri JEAN-BAPTISTE]; Socialist
Party or PS (local branch of French Parti Socialiste) [Ibrahim
ABUBACAR]; Union for French Democracy or UDF [Henri JEAN-BAPTISTE]

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: FZ

Diplomatic representation in the US: none (territorial collectivity
of France)

Diplomatic representation from the US: none (territorial
collectivity of France)

Flag description: the flag of France is used



Mayotte    Economy

Economy - overview: Economic activity is based primarily on the
agricultural sector, including fishing and livestock raising.
Mayotte is not self-sufficient and must import a large portion of
its food requirements, mainly from France. The economy and future
development of the island are heavily dependent on French financial
assistance, an important supplement to GDP. Mayotte's remote
location is an obstacle to the development of tourism.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $85 million (1998 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: NA%

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $600 (1998 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  NA%

industry:  NA%

services:  NA%

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): NA%

Labor force: NA

Unemployment rate: 45% (1997)

Budget: revenues:  $NA

expenditures:  $73 million, including capital expenditures of $NA
(1991 est.)

Industries: newly created lobster and shrimp industry, construction

Industrial production growth rate: NA%

Electricity - production: NA kWh

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  NA%

hydro:  NA%

nuclear:  NA%

other:  NA%

Electricity - consumption: NA kWh

Agriculture - products: vanilla, ylang-ylang (perfume essence),
coffee, copra

Exports: $3.44 million (f.o.b., 1997)

Exports - commodities: ylang-ylang (perfume essence), vanilla,
copra, coconuts, coffee, cinnamon

Exports - partners: France 80%, Comoros 15%, Reunion

Imports: $141.3 million (f.o.b., 1997)

Imports - commodities: food, machinery and equipment, transportation
equipment, metals, chemicals

Imports - partners: France 66%, Africa 14%, Southeast Asia 11% (1997)

Debt - external: $NA

Economic aid - recipient: $107.7 million (1995); note - extensive
French financial assistance

Currency: French franc (FRF); euro (EUR)

Currency code: FRF; EUR

Exchange rates: euros per US dollar - 1.0659 (January 2001), 1.0854
(2000), 0.9386 (1999); French francs per US dollar - 5.8995 (1998),
5.8367 (1997), 5.1155 (1996)

Fiscal year: calendar year



Mayotte    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 9,314 (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 0 (2000)

Telephone system: general assessment:  small system administered by
French Department of Posts and Telecommunications

domestic:  NA

international:  microwave radio relay and HF radiotelephone
communications to Comoros and other international connections

Radio broadcast stations: AM 1, FM 4, shortwave 0 (1998)

Radios: NA

Television broadcast stations: 3 (1997)

Televisions: 3,500 (1994)

Internet country code: .yt

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): NA

Internet users: NA



Mayotte    Transportation

Railways: 0 km

Highways: total:  93 km

paved:  72 km

unpaved:  21 km

Waterways: none

Ports and harbors: Dzaoudzi

Merchant marine: none (2000 est.)

Airports: 1 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  1

1,524 to 2,437 m:  1 (2000 est.)



Mayotte    Military

Military - note: defense is the responsibility of France; small
contingent of French forces stationed on the island



Mayotte    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: claimed by Comoros

======================================================================

@Mexico




Mexico    Introduction

Background: The site of advanced Amerindian civilizations, Mexico
came under Spanish rule for three centuries before achieving
independence early in the 19th century. A devaluation of the peso in
late 1994 threw Mexico into economic turmoil, triggering the worst
recession in over half a century. The nation continues to make an
impressive recovery. Ongoing economic and social concerns include
low real wages, underemployment for a large segment of the
population, inequitable income distribution, and few advancement
opportunities for the largely Amerindian population in the
impoverished southern states.



Mexico    Geography

Location: Middle America, bordering the Caribbean Sea and the Gulf
of Mexico, between Belize and the US and bordering the North Pacific
Ocean, between Guatemala and the US

Geographic coordinates: 23 00 N, 102 00 W

Map references: North America

Area: total:  1,972,550 sq km

land:  1,923,040 sq km

water:  49,510 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly less than three times the size of Texas

Land boundaries: total:  4,538 km

border countries:  Belize 250 km, Guatemala 962 km, US 3,326 km

Coastline: 9,330 km

Maritime claims: contiguous zone:  24 NM

continental shelf:  200 NM or to the edge of the continental margin

exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: varies from tropical to desert

Terrain: high, rugged mountains; low coastal plains; high plateaus;
desert

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Laguna Salada -10 m

highest point:  Volcan Pico de Orizaba 5,700 m

Natural resources: petroleum, silver, copper, gold, lead, zinc,
natural gas, timber

Land use: arable land:  12%

permanent crops:  1%

permanent pastures:  39%

forests and woodland:  26%

other:  22% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 61,000 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: tsunamis along the Pacific coast, volcanoes and
destructive earthquakes in the center and south, and hurricanes on
the Gulf of Mexico and Caribbean coasts

Environment - current issues: natural fresh water resources scarce
and polluted in north, inaccessible and poor quality in center and
extreme southeast; raw sewage and industrial effluents polluting
rivers in urban areas; deforestation; widespread erosion;
desertification; serious air pollution in the national capital and
urban centers along US-Mexico border

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification,
Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine
Dumping, Marine Life Conservation, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer
Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands, Whaling

signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Geography - note: strategic location on southern border of US



Mexico    People

Population: 101,879,171 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  33.32% (male 17,312,220; female
16,635,438)

15-64 years:  62.28% (male 30,888,015; female 32,558,359)

65 years and over:  4.4% (male 1,997,219; female 2,487,920) (2001
est.)

Population growth rate: 1.5% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 22.77 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 5.02 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: -2.77 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  0.95 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.8 male(s)/female

total population:  0.97 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 25.36 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  71.76 years

male:  68.73 years

female:  74.93 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 2.62 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 0.29% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 150,000 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: 4,700 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Mexican(s)

adjective:  Mexican

Ethnic groups: mestizo (Amerindian-Spanish) 60%, Amerindian or
predominantly Amerindian 30%, white 9%, other 1%

Religions: nominally Roman Catholic 89%, Protestant 6%, other 5%

Languages: Spanish, various Mayan, Nahuatl, and other regional
indigenous languages

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  89.6%

male:  91.8%

female:  87.4% (1995 est.)



Mexico    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  United Mexican States

conventional short form:  Mexico

local long form:  Estados Unidos Mexicanos

local short form:  Mexico

Government type: federal republic

Capital: Mexico

Administrative divisions: 31 states (estados, singular - estado) and
1 federal district* (distrito federal); Aguascalientes, Baja
California, Baja California Sur, Campeche, Chiapas, Chihuahua,
Coahuila de Zaragoza, Colima, Distrito Federal*, Durango,
Guanajuato, Guerrero, Hidalgo, Jalisco, Mexico, Michoacan de Ocampo,
Morelos, Nayarit, Nuevo Leon, Oaxaca, Puebla, Queretaro de Arteaga,
Quintana Roo, San Luis Potosi, Sinaloa, Sonora, Tabasco, Tamaulipas,
Tlaxcala, Veracruz-Llave, Yucatan, Zacatecas

Independence: 16 September 1810 (from Spain)

National holiday: Independence Day, 16 September (1810)

Constitution: 5 February 1917

Legal system: mixture of US constitutional theory and civil law
system; judicial review of legislative acts; accepts compulsory ICJ
jurisdiction, with reservations

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal and compulsory (but not
enforced)

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Vicente FOX Quesada
(since 1 December 2000); note - the president is both the chief of
state and head of government

head of government:  President Vicente FOX Quesada (since 1 December
2000); note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
government

cabinet:  Cabinet appointed by the president; note - appointment of
attorney general requires consent of the Senate

elections:  president elected by popular vote for a six-year term;
election last held 2 July 2000 (next to be held NA July 2006)

election results:  Vicente FOX Quesada elected president; percent of
vote - Vicente FOX Quesada (PAN) 42.52%, Francisco LABASTIDA Ochoa
(PRI) 36.1%, Cuauhtemoc CARDENAS Solorzano (PRD) 16.64%, other 4.74%

Legislative branch: bicameral National Congress or Congreso de la
Union consists of the Senate or Camara de Senadores (128 seats; 96
are elected by popular vote to serve six-year terms, and 32 are
allocated on the basis of each party's popular vote) and the Federal
Chamber of Deputies or Camara Federal de Diputados (500 seats; 300
members are directly elected by popular vote to serve three-year
terms; remaining 200 members are allocated on the basis of each
party's popular vote, also for three-year terms)

elections:  Senate - last held 2 July 2000 for all of the seats
(next to be held NA 2006); Chamber of Deputies - last held 2 July
2000 (next to be held NA 2003)

election results:  Senate - percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by
party - PRI 59, PAN 45, PRD 17, PVEM 5, PT 1, PCD 1; Chamber of
Deputies - percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party - PRI 211,
PAN 208, PRD 50, PVEM 16, PT 7, PCD 3, PSN 3, PAS 2

Judicial branch: Supreme Court of Justice or Corte Suprema de
Justicia (judges are appointed by the president with consent of the
Senate)

Political parties and leaders: Convergence for Democracy or CD
[Dante DELGADO Ranauro]; Institutional Revolutionary Party or PRI
[Dulce Maria SAURI Riancho]; Mexican Green Ecological Party or PVEM
[Jorge GONZALEZ Torres]; National Action Party or PAN [Luis Felipe
BRAVO Mena]; Party of the Democratic Center or PCD [Manuel CAMACHO
Solis]; Party of the Democratic Revolution or PRD [Amalia GARCIA
Medina]; Party of the Nationalist Society or PSN [Gustavo RIOJAIS
Santana]; Social Alliance Party or PAS [Jose Antonio CALDERON
Cardoso]; Workers Party or PT [Alberto ANAYA Gutierrez]

Political pressure groups and leaders: Confederation of Employers of
the Mexican Republic or COPARMEX; Confederation of Industrial
Chambers or CONCAMIN; Confederation of Mexican Workers or CTM;
Confederation of National Chambers of Commerce or CONCANACO;
Coordinator for Foreign Trade Business Organizations or COECE;
Federation of Unions Providing Goods and Services or FESEBES;
National Chamber of Transformation Industries or CANACINTRA;
National Peasant Confederation or CNC; National Union of Workers or
UNT; Regional Confederation of Mexican Workers or CROM;
Revolutionary Confederation of Workers and Peasants or CROC; Roman
Catholic Church

International organization participation: APEC, BCIE, BIS, Caricom
(observer), CCC, CDB, CE (observer), EBRD, ECLAC, FAO, G-3, G-6,
G-11, G-15, G-19, G-24, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, ICRM,
IDA, IEA (observer), IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat,
Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM (observer), ISO, ITU, LAES, LAIA, NAM
(observer), NEA, OAS, OECD, OPANAL, OPCW, PCA, RG, UN, UNCTAD,
UNESCO, UNIDO, UNITAR, UNU, UPU, WCL, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO,
WTrO

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Juan Jose BREMER Martino

chancery:  1911 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20006

telephone:  [1] (202) 728-1600

FAX:  [1] (202) 728-1698

consulate(s) general:  Atlanta, Austin, Boston, Chicago, Dallas,
Denver, El Paso, Houston, Laredo (Texas), Los Angeles, Miami, New
Orleans, New York, Nogales (Arizona), Phoenix, Sacramento, San
Antonio, San Diego, San Francisco, San Juan (Puerto Rico)

consulate(s):  Albuquerque, Brownsville (Texas), Calexico
(California), Corpus Christi, Del Rio (Texas), Detroit, Douglas
(Arizona), Eagle Pass (Texas), Fresno (California), McAllen (Texas),
Midland (Texas), Orlando, Oxnard (California), Philadelphia,
Portland (Oregon), St. Louis, Salt Lake City, San Bernardino, San
Jose, Santa Ana (California), Seattle, Tucson

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Jeffery DAVIDOW

embassy:  Paseo de la Reforma 305, Colonia Cuauhtemoc, 06500 Mexico,
Distrito Federal

mailing address:  P. O. Box 3087, Laredo, TX 78044-3087

telephone:  [52] (5) 209-9100

FAX:  [52] (5) 208-3373, 511-9980

consulate(s) general:  Ciudad Juarez, Guadalajara, Monterrey, Tijuana

consulate(s):  Hermosillo, Matamoros, Merida, Nuevo Laredo, Nogales

Flag description: three equal vertical bands of green (hoist side),
white, and red; the coat of arms (an eagle perched on a cactus with
a snake in its beak) is centered in the white band



Mexico    Economy

Economy - overview: Mexico has a free market economy with a mixture
of modern and outmoded industry and agriculture, increasingly
dominated by the private sector. The number of state-owned
enterprises in Mexico has fallen from more than 1,000 in 1982 to
fewer than 200 in 2000. The ZEDILLO administration privatized and
expanded competition in seaports, railroads, telecommunications,
electricity, natural gas distribution, and airports. A strong export
sector helped to cushion the economy's decline in 1995 and led the
recovery in 1996-2000. Private consumption became the leading driver
of growth in 2000, accompanied by increased employment and higher
real wages. Mexico still needs to overcome many structural problems
as it strives to modernize its economy and raise living standards.
Income distribution is very unequal, with the top 20% of income
earners accounting for 55% of income. Trade with the US and Canada
has tripled since NAFTA was implemented in 1994. Mexico completed
free trade agreements with the EU, Israel, El Salvador, Honduras,
and Guatemala in 2000, and is pursuing additional trade agreements
with countries in Latin America and Asia to lessen its dependence on
the US.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $915 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 7.1% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $9,100 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  5%

industry:  27%

services:  68% (2000)

Population below poverty line: 27% (1998 est.)

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:
1.8%

highest 10%:  36.6% (1996)

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 9% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 39.8 million (2000)

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture 20%, industry 24%, services
56% (1998)

Unemployment rate: urban - 2.2% (2000); plus considerable
underemployment

Budget: revenues:  $125 billion

expenditures:  $130 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
(2000 est.)

Industries: food and beverages, tobacco, chemicals, iron and steel,
petroleum, mining, textiles, clothing, motor vehicles, consumer
durables, tourism

Industrial production growth rate: 7.5% (2000 est.)

Electricity - production: 182.492 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  74.12%

hydro:  17.75%

nuclear:  5.21%

other:  2.92% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 170.754 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 11 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 1.047 billion kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: corn, wheat, soybeans, rice, beans, cotton,
coffee, fruit, tomatoes; beef, poultry, dairy products; wood products

Exports: $168 billion (f.o.b., 2000), includes in-bond industries
(assembly plant operations)

Exports - commodities: manufactured goods, oil and oil products,
silver, fruits, vegetables, coffee, cotton

Exports - partners: US 88.6%, Canada 2%, Spain 0.9%, Germany 0.9%,
Japan 0.6%, UK 0.6%, Netherlands Antilles 0.5%, Switzerland 0.3%
Venezuela 0.3%, Chile 0.3% (2000 est.)

Imports: $176 billion (f.o.b., 2000), includes in-bond industries
(assembly plant operations)

Imports - commodities: metal-working machines, steel mill products,
agricultural machinery, electrical equipment, car parts for
assembly, repair parts for motor vehicles, aircraft, and aircraft
parts

Imports - partners: US 73.6%, Japan 3.7%, Germany 3.3%, Canada 2.3%,
South Korea 2%, China 1.6%, Taiwan 1.2%, Italy 1%, Brazil 1% (2000
est.)

Debt - external: $162 billion (2000)

Economic aid - recipient: $1.166 billion (1995)

Currency: Mexican peso (MXN)

Currency code: MXN

Exchange rates: Mexican pesos per US dollar - 9.7701 (January 2001),
9.4556 (2000), 9.5604 (1999), 9.1360 (1998), 7.9185 (1997), 7.5994
(1996)

Fiscal year: calendar year



Mexico    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 9.6 million (1998)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 2.02 million (1998)

Telephone system: general assessment:  low telephone density with
about 11 main lines per 100 persons; privatized in December 1990;
the opening to competition in January 1997 has brightened prospects
for development

domestic:  adequate telephone service for business and government,
but the population is poorly served; domestic satellite system with
120 earth stations; extensive microwave radio relay network;
considerable use of fiber-optic cable, coaxial cable, and mobile
cellular service

international:  satellite earth stations - 32 Intelsat, 2
Solidaridad (giving Mexico improved access to South America, Central
America, and much of the US as well as enhancing domestic
communications), numerous Inmarsat mobile earth stations; linked to
Central American Microwave System of trunk connections; high
capacity Columbus-2 fiber-optic submarine cable with access to the
US, Virgin Islands, Canary Islands, Morocco, Spain, and Italy (1997)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 865, FM about 500, shortwave 13 (1999)

Radios: 31 million (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 236 (plus repeaters) (1997)

Televisions: 25.6 million (1997)

Internet country code: .mx

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 51 (2000)

Internet users: 2.5 million (2000)



Mexico    Transportation

Railways: total:  31,048 km

standard gauge:  30,958 km 1.435-m gauge (246 km electrified)

narrow gauge:  90 km 0.914-m gauge (1998 est.)

Highways: total:  323,977 km

paved:  96,221 km (including 6,335 km of expressways)

unpaved:  227,756 km (1997)

Waterways: 2,900 km

note:  navigable rivers and coastal canals

Pipelines: crude oil 28,200 km; petroleum products 10,150 km;
natural gas 13,254 km; petrochemical 1,400 km

Ports and harbors: Acapulco, Altamira, Coatzacoalcos, Ensenada,
Guaymas, La Paz, Lazaro Cardenas, Manzanillo, Mazatlan, Progreso,
Salina Cruz, Tampico, Topolobampo, Tuxpan, Veracruz

Merchant marine: total:  43 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
590,657 GRT/920,456 DWT

ships by type:  bulk 2, cargo 1, chemical tanker 4, liquefied gas 3,
petroleum tanker 28, roll on/roll off 2, short-sea passenger 3 (2000
est.)

Airports: 1,848 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  238

over 3,047 m:  11

2,438 to 3,047 m:  28

1,524 to 2,437 m:  90

914 to 1,523 m:  82

under 914 m:  27 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  1,610

over 3,047 m:  1

2,438 to 3,047 m:  1

1,524 to 2,437 m:  65

914 to 1,523 m:  470

under 914 m:  1,073 (2000 est.)

Heliports: 2 (2000 est.)



Mexico    Military

Military branches: National Defense Secretariat (includes Army and
Air Force), Navy Secretariat (includes Naval Air and Naval Infantry)

Military manpower - military age: 18 years of age

note:  starting in 2000, females will be allowed to volunteer for
military service

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  26,703,300 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
19,394,184 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:
1,077,536 (2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $4 billion (FY99)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 1% (FY99)



Mexico    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

Illicit drugs: illicit cultivation of opium poppy (cultivation in
2000 - 1,900 hectares; potential heroin production - 2.4 metric
tons) and cannabis cultivation in 2000 - 3,900 hectares; government
eradication efforts have been key in keeping illicit crop levels
low; major supplier of heroin and marijuana to the US market;
continues as the primary transshipment country for US-bound cocaine
from South America; two major drug syndicates control majority of
drug trafficking throughout the country; primary supplier of
methamphetamine to the US market; growing producer and distributor
of ecstasy

======================================================================

@Micronesia, Federated States of




Micronesia, Federated States of    Introduction

Background: In 1979 the Federated States of Micronesia, a UN Trust
Territory under US administration, adopted a constitution. In 1986
independence was attained under a Compact of Free Association with
the United States. Present concerns include large-scale
unemployment, overfishing, and overdependence on US aid.



Micronesia, Federated States of    Geography

Location: Oceania, island group in the North Pacific Ocean, about
three-quarters of the way from Hawaii to Indonesia

Geographic coordinates: 6 55 N, 158 15 E

Map references: Oceania

Area: total:  702 sq km

land:  702 sq km

water:  0 sq km

note:  includes Pohnpei (Ponape), Truk (Chuuk) Islands, Yap Islands,
and Kosrae

Area - comparative: four times the size of Washington, DC

Land boundaries: 0 km

Coastline: 6,112 km

Maritime claims: exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: tropical; heavy year-round rainfall, especially in the
eastern islands; located on southern edge of the typhoon belt with
occasionally severe damage

Terrain: islands vary geologically from high mountainous islands to
low, coral atolls; volcanic outcroppings on Pohnpei, Kosrae, and Truk

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Pacific Ocean 0 m

highest point:  Totolom 791 m

Natural resources: forests, marine products, deep-seabed minerals

Land use: arable land:  NA%

permanent crops:  NA%

permanent pastures:  NA%

forests and woodland:  NA%

other:  NA%

Irrigated land: NA sq km

Natural hazards: typhoons (June to December)

Environment - current issues: overfishing

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification,
Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection

signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Geography - note: four major island groups totaling 607 islands



Micronesia, Federated States of    People

Population: 134,597 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  NA%

15-64 years:  NA%

65 years and over:  NA%

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: NA%

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: NA

HIV/AIDS - deaths: NA

Nationality: noun:  Micronesian(s)

adjective:  Micronesian; Kosrae(s), Pohnpeian(s), Trukese, Yapese

Ethnic groups: nine ethnic Micronesian and Polynesian groups

Religions: Roman Catholic 50%, Protestant 47%, other and none 3%

Languages: English (official and common language), Trukese,
Pohnpeian, Yapese, Kosrean

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  89%

male:  91%

female:  88% (1980 est.)



Micronesia, Federated States of    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Federated States of Micronesia

conventional short form:  none

former:  Ponape, Truk, and Yap Districts (Trust Territory of the
Pacific Islands)

abbreviation:  FSM

Government type: constitutional government in free association with
the US; the Compact of Free Association entered into force 3
November 1986

Capital: Palikir

Administrative divisions: 4 states; Chuuk (Truk), Kosrae, Pohnpei,
Yap

Independence: 3 November 1986 (from the US-administered UN
Trusteeship)

National holiday: Constitution Day, 10 May (1979)

Constitution: 10 May 1979

Legal system: based on adapted Trust Territory laws, acts of the
legislature, municipal, common, and customary laws

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Leo A. FALCAM (since 21
July 1999); Vice President Redley KILLION (since 21 July 1999); note
- the president is both the chief of state and head of government

head of government:  President Leo A. FALCAM (since 21 July 1999);
Vice President Redley KILLION (since 21 July 1999); note - the
president is both the chief of state and head of government

cabinet:  Cabinet

elections:  president and vice president elected by Congress from
among the four senators-at-large for four-year terms; election last
held NA May 1999 (next to be held NA May 2003)

election results:  Leo A. FALCAM elected president; percent of
Congress vote - NA%; Redley KILLION elected vice president; percent
of Congress vote - NA%

Legislative branch: unicameral Congress (14 seats; members elected
by popular vote; four - one elected from each of state - to serve
four-year terms and 10 - elected from single-member districts
delineated by population - to serve two-year terms)

elections:  elections for four-year term seats last held 2 March
1999 (next to be held NA March 2003); elections for two-year term
seats last held 6 March 2001 (next to be held NA March 2003)

election results:  percent of vote - NA%; seats - independents 14

Judicial branch: Supreme Court

Political parties and leaders: no formal parties

International organization participation: ACP, AsDB, ESCAP, G-77,
IBRD, ICAO, IDA, IFC, IMF, Intelsat, IOC, ITU, OPCW, Sparteca, SPC,
SPF, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, WHO, WMO

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Jesse Bibiano MAREHALAU

chancery:  1725 N Street NW, Washington, DC 20036

telephone:  [1] (202) 223-4383

FAX:  [1] (202) 223-4391

consulate(s) general:  Honolulu and Tamuning (Guam)

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Diane E. WATSON

embassy:  address NA, Kolonia

mailing address:  P. O. Box 1286, Kolonia, Pohnpei, Federated States
of Micronesia 96941

telephone:  [691] 320-2187

FAX:  [691] 320-2186

Flag description: light blue with four white five-pointed stars
centered; the stars are arranged in a diamond pattern



Micronesia, Federated States of    Economy

Economy - overview: Economic activity consists primarily of
subsistence farming and fishing. The islands have few mineral
deposits worth exploiting, except for high-grade phosphate. The
potential for a tourist industry exists, but the remoteness of the
location and a lack of adequate facilities hinder development. In
1996, the country experienced a 20% reduction in revenues from the
Compact of Free Association - the agreement between the US and
Micronesia in which Micronesia receives $1.3 billion in financial
and technical assistance over a 15-year period until 2001 - as a
result of the second step-down under the agreement. Since these
revenues accounted for 57% of consolidated government revenues,
reduced Compact funding resulted in a severe depression. While
Micronesia's economy appears to have bottomed out in 1999, the
country's medium-term economic outlook remains fragile due to likely
further reductions in external grants made under the US Compact
funding. Geographical isolation and a poorly developed
infrastructure remain major impediments to long-term growth.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $263 million (1999 est.)

note:  GDP is supplemented by grant aid, averaging perhaps $100
million annually

GDP - real growth rate: 0.3% (1999 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $2,000 (1999 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  19%

industry:  4%

services:  77% (1996 est.)

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 2.6% (FY98/99)

Labor force: NA

Labor force - by occupation: two-thirds are government employees

Unemployment rate: 16% (1999 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $161 million ($69 million less grants)

expenditures:  $160 million, including capital expenditures of $NA
(1998 est.)

Industries: tourism, construction, fish processing, craft items from
shell, wood, and pearls

Industrial production growth rate: NA%

Electricity - production: NA kWh

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  NA%

hydro:  NA%

nuclear:  NA%

other:  NA%

Electricity - consumption: NA kWh

Agriculture - products: black pepper, tropical fruits and
vegetables, coconuts, cassava (tapioca), sweet potatoes; pigs,
chickens

Exports: $73 million (f.o.b., 1996 est.)

Exports - commodities: fish, garments, bananas, black pepper

Exports - partners: Japan, US, Guam

Imports: $168 million (c.i.f., 1996 est.)

Imports - commodities: food, manufactured goods, machinery and
equipment, beverages

Imports - partners: US, Japan, Australia

Debt - external: $111 million (1997 est.)

Economic aid - recipient: under terms of the Compact of Free
Association, the US will provide $1.3 billion in grant aid during
the period 1986-2001

Currency: US dollar (USD)

Currency code: USD

Exchange rates: the US dollar is used

Fiscal year: 1 October - 30 September



Micronesia, Federated States of    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 11,000 (2001)

Telephones - mobile cellular: NA

Telephone system: general assessment:  adequate system

domestic:  islands interconnected by shortwave radiotelephone (used
mostly for government purposes)

international:  satellite earth stations - 4 Intelsat (Pacific Ocean)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 5, FM 1, shortwave 0 (1998)

Radios: NA

Television broadcast stations: 2 (1997)

Televisions: NA

Internet country code: .fm

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 1 (2000)

Internet users: 2,000 (2000)



Micronesia, Federated States of    Transportation

Railways: 0 km

Highways: total:  240 km

paved:  42 km

unpaved:  198 km (1996)

Waterways: none

Ports and harbors: Colonia (Yap), Kolonia (Pohnpei), Lele, Moen

Merchant marine: none (2000 est.)

Airports: 7 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  6

1,524 to 2,437 m:  4

914 to 1,523 m:  2 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  1

914 to 1,523 m:  1 (2000 est.)



Micronesia, Federated States of    Military

Military - note: Federated States of Micronesia (FSM) is a
sovereign, self-governing state in free association with the US; FSM
is totally dependent on the US for its defense



Micronesia, Federated States of    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

======================================================================

@Midway Islands




Midway Islands    Introduction

Background: The US took formal possession of the islands in 1867.
The laying of the trans-Pacific cable, which passed through the
islands, brought the first residents in 1903. Between 1935 and 1947,
Midway was used as a refueling stop for trans-Pacific flights. The
US naval victory over a Japanese fleet off Midway in 1942 was one of
the turning points of World War II. The islands continued to serve
as a naval station until closed in 1993. Today the islands are a
wildlife refuge open to the public.



Midway Islands    Geography

Location: Oceania, atoll in the North Pacific Ocean, about one-third
of the way from Honolulu to Tokyo

Geographic coordinates: 28 13 N, 177 22 W

Map references: Oceania

Area: total:  6.2 sq km

land:  6.2 sq km

water:  0 sq km

note:  includes Eastern Island, Sand Island, and Spit Island

Area - comparative: about nine times the size of The Mall in
Washington, DC

Land boundaries: 0 km

Coastline: 15 km

Maritime claims: exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: subtropical, but moderated by prevailing easterly winds

Terrain: low, nearly level

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Pacific Ocean 0 m

highest point:  unnamed location 13 m

Natural resources: wildlife, terrestrial and aquatic

Land use: arable land:  0%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  0%

forests and woodland:  0%

other:  100%

Irrigated land: 0 sq km (1998)

Natural hazards: NA

Environment - current issues: NA

Geography - note: a coral atoll managed as a national wildlife
refuge and open to the public for wildlife-related recreation in the
form of wildlife observation and photography, sport fishing,
snorkeling, and scuba diving



Midway Islands    People

Population: no indigenous inhabitants; approximately 150 people make
up the staff of US Fish and Wildlife Service and their services
cooperator living at the atoll (July 2001 est.)



Midway Islands    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  none

conventional short form:  Midway Islands

Dependency status: unincorporated territory of the US; formerly
administered from Washington, DC, by the US Navy, under Naval
Facilities Engineering Command, Pacific Division; this facility has
been operationally closed since 10 September 1993; on 31 October
1996, through a presidential executive order, the jurisdiction and
control of the atoll was transferred to the Fish and Wildlife
Service of the US Department of the Interior as part of the National
Wildlife Refuge system

Legal system: the laws of the US, where applicable, apply

Flag description: the flag of the US is used



Midway Islands    Economy

Economy - overview: The economy is based on providing support
services for the national wildlife refuge activities located on the
islands. All food and manufactured goods must be imported.



Midway Islands    Transportation

Highways: total:  NA km

paved:  NA km

unpaved:  NA km

Waterways: none

Pipelines: 7.8 km

Ports and harbors: Sand Island

Airports: 3 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  2

1,524 to 2,437 m:  2 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  1

914 to 1,523 m:  1 (2000 est.)



Midway Islands    Military

Military - note: defense is the responsibility of the US



Midway Islands    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

======================================================================

@Moldova




Moldova    Introduction

Background: Formerly ruled by Romania, Moldova became part of the
Soviet Union at the close of World War II. Although independent from
the USSR since 1991, Russian forces have remained on Moldovan
territory east of the Nistru (Dnister) River supporting the Slavic
majority population, mostly Ukrainians and Russians, who have
proclaimed a "Transnistria" republic. One of the poorest nations in
Europe and plagued by a moribund economy, in 2001 Moldova became the
first former Soviet state to elect a communist as its president.



Moldova    Geography

Location: Eastern Europe, northeast of Romania

Geographic coordinates: 47 00 N, 29 00 E

Map references: Commonwealth of Independent States

Area: total:  33,843 sq km

land:  33,371 sq km

water:  472 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly larger than Maryland

Land boundaries: total:  1,389 km

border countries:  Romania 450 km, Ukraine 939 km

Coastline: 0 km (landlocked)

Maritime claims: none (landlocked)

Climate: moderate winters, warm summers

Terrain: rolling steppe, gradual slope south to Black Sea

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Nistru (Dnister) River 2 m

highest point:  Dealul Balanesti 430 m

Natural resources: lignite, phosphorites, gypsum, arable land

Land use: arable land:  53%

permanent crops:  14%

permanent pastures:  13%

forests and woodland:  13%

other:  7% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 3,110 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: landslides (57 cases in 1998)

Environment - current issues: heavy use of agricultural chemicals,
including banned pesticides such as DDT, has contaminated soil and
groundwater; extensive soil erosion from poor farming methods

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Air Pollution,
Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification, Hazardous Wastes,
Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands

signed, but not ratified:  Air Pollution-Persistent Organic
Pollutants

Geography - note: landlocked



Moldova    People

Population: 4,431,570 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  22.44% (male 506,303; female 488,311)

15-64 years:  67.62% (male 1,437,492; female 1,559,090)

65 years and over:  9.94% (male 163,473; female 276,901) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 0.05% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 13.35 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 12.6 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: -0.3 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  0.92 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.59 male(s)/female

total population:  0.91 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 42.74 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  64.6 years

male:  60.15 years

female:  69.26 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 1.67 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 0.2% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 4,500 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: less than 100 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Moldovan(s)

adjective:  Moldovan

Ethnic groups: Moldovan/Romanian 64.5%, Ukrainian 13.8%, Russian
13%, Gagauz 3.5%, Jewish 1.5%, Bulgarian 2%, other 1.7% (1989 est.)

note:  internal disputes with ethnic Slavs in the Transnistrian
region

Religions: Eastern Orthodox 98.5%, Jewish 1.5%, Baptist (only about
1,000 members) (1991)

Languages: Moldovan (official, virtually the same as the Romanian
language), Russian, Gagauz (a Turkish dialect)

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  96%

male:  99%

female:  94% (1989 est.)



Moldova    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Republic of Moldova

conventional short form:  Moldova

local long form:  Republica Moldova

local short form:  none

former:  Soviet Socialist Republic of Moldova; Moldavia

Government type: republic

Capital: Chisinau

Administrative divisions: 10 juletule (singular - juletul), 1
municipality*, and 1 autonomous territorial unit**; Balti, Cahul,
Chisinau, Chisinau*, Dubasari, Edinet, Gagauzia**, Lapusna, Orhei,
Soroca, Tighina, Ungheni

Independence: 27 August 1991 (from Soviet Union)

National holiday: Independence Day, 27 August (1991)

Constitution: new constitution adopted 28 July 1994; replaces old
Soviet constitution of 1979

Legal system: based on civil law system; Constitutional Court
reviews legality of legislative acts and governmental decisions of
resolution; it is unclear if Moldova accepts compulsory ICJ
jurisdiction but accepts many UN and Organization for Security and
Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) documents

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Vladimir VORONIN (since
4 April 2001)

head of government:  Prime Minister Vasile TARLEV (since 15 April
2001), three Deputy Prime Ministers: Valerian CRISTEA, Andrei CUCU,
and Dmitri TODOROGLO (all since 19 April 2001)

cabinet:  selected by prime minister, subject to approval of
Parliament

elections:  president elected by Parliament for a four-year term;
election last held 4 April 2001; presidential elections were
scheduled for December 2000, but in July 2000, Parliament canceled
direct popular elections; Parliament's failure to chose a new
president in December 2000 led to early parliamentary elections
(moved up a year to February 2001); according to the Moldovan
constitution, the president, on consulting with Parliament, will
designate a candidate for the office of prime minister; within 15
days from designation, the prime minister-designate will request a
vote of confidence from the Parliament regarding his/her work
program and entire cabinet; prime minister designated on 15 April
2001, cabinet received vote of confidence on 19 April 2001

election results:  Vladimir VORONIN elected president; parliamentary
votes - Vladimir VORONIN 71, Dumitru BRAGHIS 15, Valerian CHRISTEA
3; Vasile TARLEV elected Prime Minister; parliamentary votes of
confidence - 75 of 101

Legislative branch: unicameral Parliament or Parlamentul (101 seats;
parties and electoral blocs, as well as independent candidates,
elected by popular vote to serve four-year terms)

elections:  last held 25 February 2001 (next to be held NA 2005)

election results:  percent of vote by party - PCM 50.1%, Braghis
Alliance 13.4%, PPCD 8.2%, other parties 28.3%; seats by party - PCM
71, Braghis Alliance 19, PPCD 11

Judicial branch: Supreme Court; Constitutional Court (the sole
authority for constitutional judicature)

Political parties and leaders: Braghis Alliance [Dumitru BRAGHIS];
Popular Christian Democratic Party or PPCD [Iurie ROSCA]; Communist
Party or PCM [Vladimir VORONIN, first chairman]

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: ACCT, BIS, BSEC, CCC, CE,
CEI, CIS, EAPC, EBRD, ECE, FAO, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, IDA, IFAD,
IFC, ILO, IMF, Intelsat (nonsignatory user), Interpol, IOC, IOM
(observer), ISO (correspondent), ITU, OPCW, OSCE, PFP, UN, UNCTAD,
UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO (observer)

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Ceslav CIOBANU

chancery:  2101 S Street NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone:  [1] (202) 667-1130

FAX:  [1] (202) 667-1204

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Rudolf Vilem PERINA

embassy:  Strada Alexei Mateevicie, #103, Chisinau 2009

mailing address:  use embassy street address; pouch address -
American Embassy Chisinau, Department of State, Washington, DC
20521-7080

telephone:  [373] (2) 23-37-72

FAX:  [373] (2) 23-30-44

Flag description: same color scheme as Romania - three equal
vertical bands of blue (hoist side), yellow, and red; emblem in
center of flag is of a Roman eagle of gold outlined in black with a
red beak and talons carrying a yellow cross in its beak and a green
olive branch in its right talons and a yellow scepter in its left
talons; on its breast is a shield divided horizontally red over blue
with a stylized ox head, star, rose, and crescent all in
black-outlined yellow



Moldova    Economy

Economy - overview: Moldova enjoys a favorable climate and good
farmland but has no major mineral deposits. As a result, the economy
depends heavily on agriculture, featuring fruits, vegetables, wine,
and tobacco. Moldova must import all of its supplies of oil, coal,
and natural gas, largely from Russia. Energy shortages contributed
to sharp production declines after the breakup of the Soviet Union
in 1991. As part of an ambitious reform effort, Moldova introduced a
convertible currency, freed all prices, stopped issuing preferential
credits to state enterprises, backed steady land privatization,
removed export controls, and freed interest rates. Yet these efforts
could not offset the impact of political and economic difficulties,
both internal and regional. In 1998, the economic troubles of
Russia, by far Moldova's leading trade partner, were a major cause
of the 8.6% drop in GDP. In 1999, GDP fell again, by 4.4%, the fifth
drop in the past seven years; exports were down, and energy supplies
continued to be erratic. GDP declined slightly in 2000, with a
serious drought hurting agriculture. Growth should turn positive in
2001.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $11.3 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: -1.5% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $2,500 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  31%

industry:  35%

services:  34% (1998)

Population below poverty line: 75% (1999 est.)

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:
2.7%

highest 10%:  25.8% (1992)

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 32% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 1.7 million (1998)

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture 40%, industry 14%, other
46% (1998)

Unemployment rate: 1.9% (includes only officially registered
unemployed; large numbers of underemployed workers) (November 2000)

Budget: revenues:  $536 million

expenditures:  $594 million, including capital expenditures of $NA
(1998 est.)

Industries: food processing, agricultural machinery, foundry
equipment, refrigerators and freezers, washing machines, hosiery,
sugar, vegetable oil, shoes, textiles

Industrial production growth rate: 3% (2000 est.)

Electricity - production: 4.155 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  93.62%

hydro:  6.38%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 5.78 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 1.916 billion kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: vegetables, fruits, wine, grain, sugar
beets, sunflower seed, tobacco; beef, milk

Exports: $500 million (f.o.b., 2000)

Exports - commodities: foodstuffs 57%, wine, tobacco; textiles and
footwear, machinery (1999)

Exports - partners: Russia 41%, Romania 9%, Germany 8%, Ukraine 7%,
Italy, Belarus (1999)

Imports: $761 million (f.o.b., 2000)

Imports - commodities: mineral products and fuel 38%, machinery and
equipment, chemicals, textiles (1999)

Imports - partners: Russia 21%, Romania 16%, Ukraine 14%, Germany
12%, Italy 6%, Belarus (1999)

Debt - external: $900 million (2000)

Economic aid - recipient: $100.8 million (1995); note - $547 million
from the IMF and World Bank (1992-99)

Currency: Moldovan leu (MDL)

Currency code: MDL

Exchange rates: lei per US dollar - 12.3728 (January 2001), 12.4342
(2000), 10.5158 (1999), 5.3707 (1998), 4.6236 (1997), 4.6045 (1996);
note - lei is the plural form of leu

Fiscal year: calendar year



Moldova    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 627,000 (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 2,200 (1997)

Telephone system: general assessment:  inadequate, outmoded, poor
service outside Chisinau, some effort to modernize is under way

domestic:  new subscribers face long wait for service; mobile
cellular telephone service being introduced

international:  service through Romania and Russia via landline;
satellite earth stations - Intelsat, Eutelsat, and Intersputnik

Radio broadcast stations: AM 7, FM 50, shortwave 3 (1998)

Radios: 3.22 million (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 1 (plus 30 repeaters) (1995)

Televisions: 1.26 million (1997)

Internet country code: .md

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 2 (1999)

Internet users: 15,000 (2000)



Moldova    Transportation

Railways: total:  1,328 km

broad gauge:  1,328 km 1.520-m gauge (1992)

Highways: total:  20,000 km

paved:  13,900 km (these roads are said to be hard-surfaced, and
include, in addition to conventionally paved roads, some that are
surfaced with gravel or other coarse aggregate, making them
trafficable in all weather)

unpaved:  6,100 km (these roads are made of unstabilized earth and
are difficult to negotiate in wet weather) (1990)

Waterways: 424 km (1994)

Pipelines: natural gas 310 km (1992)

Ports and harbors: none

Airports: 30 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  7

over 3,047 m:  1

2,438 to 3,047 m:  2

1,524 to 2,437 m:  3

under 914 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  23

2,438 to 3,047 m:  4

1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

914 to 1,523 m:  4

under 914 m:  14 (2000 est.)



Moldova    Military

Military branches: Ground Forces, Air and Air Defense Forces,
Republic Security Forces (internal and border troops)

Military manpower - military age: 18 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  1,164,018 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
921,210 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  42,268
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $6 million (FY99)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 1% (FY99)



Moldova    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: separatist Transnistria region, comprising
the area between the Nistru (Dniester) River and Ukraine, has its
own de facto government, dominated by Moldovan Slavs

Illicit drugs: limited cultivation of opium poppy and cannabis,
mostly for CIS consumption; transshipment point for illicit drugs
from Southwest Asia via Central Asia to Russia, Western Europe, and
possibly the US

======================================================================

@Monaco




Monaco    Introduction

Background: Economic development was spurred in the late 19th
century with a railroad linkup to France and the opening of a
casino. Since then, the principality's mild climate, splendid
scenery, and gambling facilities have made Monaco world famous as a
tourist and recreation center.



Monaco    Geography

Location: Western Europe, bordering the Mediterranean Sea on the
southern coast of France, near the border with Italy

Geographic coordinates: 43 44 N, 7 24 E

Map references: Europe

Area: total:  1.95 sq km

land:  1.95 sq km

water:  0 sq km

Area - comparative: about three times the size of The Mall in
Washington, DC

Land boundaries: total:  4.4 km

border countries:  France 4.4 km

Coastline: 4.1 km

Maritime claims: territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: Mediterranean with mild, wet winters and hot, dry summers

Terrain: hilly, rugged, rocky

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Mediterranean Sea 0 m

highest point:  Mont Agel 140 m

Natural resources: none

Land use: arable land:  0%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  0%

forests and woodland:  0%

other:  100% (urban area)

Irrigated land: NA sq km

Natural hazards: NA

Environment - current issues: NA

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Air Pollution,
Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species,
Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer
Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands, Whaling

signed, but not ratified:  Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol

Geography - note: second smallest independent state in the world
(after Holy See); almost entirely urban



Monaco    People

Population: 31,842 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  15.32% (male 2,503; female 2,375)

15-64 years:  62.23% (male 9,731; female 10,083)

65 years and over:  22.45% (male 2,921; female 4,229) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 0.46% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 9.74 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 13 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 7.85 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  0.97 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.69 male(s)/female

total population:  0.91 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 5.83 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  78.98 years

male:  75.04 years

female:  83.12 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 1.76 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: NA%

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: NA

HIV/AIDS - deaths: NA

Nationality: noun:  Monegasque(s) or Monacan(s)

adjective:  Monegasque or Monacan

Ethnic groups: French 47%, Monegasque 16%, Italian 16%, other 21%

Religions: Roman Catholic 90%

Languages: French (official), English, Italian, Monegasque

Literacy: definition:  NA

total population:  99%

male:  NA%

female:  NA%



Monaco    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Principality of Monaco

conventional short form:  Monaco

local long form:  Principaute de Monaco

local short form:  Monaco

Government type: constitutional monarchy

Capital: Monaco

Administrative divisions: none; there are no first-order
administrative divisions as defined by the US Government, but there
are four quarters (quartiers, singular - quartier); Fontvieille, La
Condamine, Monaco-Ville, Monte-Carlo

Independence: 1419 (beginning of the rule by the House of Grimaldi)

National holiday: National Day (Prince of Monaco Holiday), 19
November

Constitution: 17 December 1962

Legal system: based on French law; has not accepted compulsory ICJ
jurisdiction

Suffrage: 21 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  Prince RAINIER III (since 9 May
1949); Heir Apparent Prince ALBERT Alexandre Louis Pierre, son of
the monarch (born 14 March 1958)

head of government:  Minister of State Patrick LECLERQUE (since 5
January 2000)

cabinet:  Council of Government is under the authority of the monarch

elections:  none; the monarch is hereditary; minister of state
appointed by the monarch from a list of three French national
candidates presented by the French Government

Legislative branch: unicameral National Council or Conseil National
(18 seats; members are elected by popular vote to serve five-year
terms)

elections:  last held 1 and 8 February 1998 (next to be held NA
January 2003)

election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
UND 18

Judicial branch: Supreme Court or Tribunal Supreme (judges appointed
by the monarch on the basis of nominations by the National Council)

Political parties and leaders: National and Democratic Union or UND
[leader NA]; National Union for the Future of Monaco or UNAM [leader
NA]; Rally for the Monegasque Family [leader NA]

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: ACCT, ECE, IAEA, ICAO,
ICRM, IFRCS, IHO, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, ITU, OPCW,
OSCE, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UPU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO

Diplomatic representation in the US: Monaco does not have an embassy
in the US

consulate(s) general:  New York

Diplomatic representation from the US: the US does not have an
embassy in Monaco; the US Consul General in Marseille (France) is
accredited to Monaco

Flag description: two equal horizontal bands of red (top) and white;
similar to the flag of Indonesia which is longer and the flag of
Poland which is white (top) and red



Monaco    Economy

Economy - overview: Monaco, situated on the French Mediterranean
coast, is a popular resort, attracting tourists to its casino and
pleasant climate. The Principality has successfully sought to
diversify into services and small, high-value-added, nonpolluting
industries. The state has no income tax and low business taxes and
thrives as a tax haven both for individuals who have established
residence and for foreign companies that have set up businesses and
offices. The state retains monopolies in a number of sectors,
including tobacco, the telephone network, and the postal service.
Living standards are high, roughly comparable to those in prosperous
French metropolitan areas. Monaco does not publish national income
figures; the estimates below are extremely rough.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $870 million (1999 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: NA%

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $27,000 (1999 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  NA%

industry:  NA%

services:  NA%

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): NA%

Labor force: 30,540 (January 1994)

Unemployment rate: 3.1% (1998)

Budget: revenues:  $518 million

expenditures:  $531 million, including capital expenditures of $NA
(1995)

Industries: tourism, construction, small-scale industrial and
consumer products

Industrial production growth rate: NA%

Electricity - consumption: NA kWh

Electricity - imports: NA kWh

note:  electricity supplied by France (1999)

Agriculture - products: none

Exports: $NA; full customs integration with France, which collects
and rebates Monegasque trade duties; also participates in EU market
system through customs union with France

Imports: $NA; full customs integration with France, which collects
and rebates Monegasque trade duties; also participates in EU market
system through customs union with France

Debt - external: $NA

Economic aid - recipient: $NA

Currency: French franc (FRF); euro (EUR)

Currency code: FRF; EUR

Exchange rates: euros per US dollar - 1.0659 (January 2001), 1.0854
(2000), 0.9386 (1999); French francs per US dollar - 5.8995 (1998),
5.8367 (1997), 5.1155 (1996)

Fiscal year: calendar year



Monaco    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 31,027 (1995)

Telephones - mobile cellular: NA

Telephone system: general assessment:  modern automatic telephone
system

domestic:  NA

international:  no satellite earth stations; connected by cable into
the French communications system

Radio broadcast stations: AM 1, FM NA, shortwave 8 (1998)

Radios: 34,000 (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 5 (1998)

Televisions: 25,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .mc

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 2 (2000)

Internet users: NA



Monaco    Transportation

Railways: total:  1.7 km

standard gauge:  1.7 km 1.435-m gauge

Highways: total:  50 km

paved:  50 km

unpaved:  0 km (2001)

Waterways: none

Ports and harbors: Monaco

Merchant marine: none (2000 est.)

Airports: linked to airport in Nice, France, by helicopter service

Heliports: 1 (shuttle service between the international airport at
Nice, France, and Monaco's heliport at Fontvieille)



Monaco    Military

Military - note: defense is the responsibility of France



Monaco    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

======================================================================

@Mongolia




Mongolia    Introduction

Background: Long a province of China, Mongolia won its independence
in 1921 with Soviet backing. A communist regime was installed in
1924. During the early 1990s, the ex-communist Mongolian People's
Revolutionary Party (MPRP) gradually yielded its monopoly on power.
In 1996, the Democratic Union Coalition (DUC) defeated the MPRP in a
national election. Over the next four years the Coalition
implemented a number of key reforms to modernize the economy and
institutionalize democratic reforms. However, the former communists
were a strong opposition that stalled additional reforms and made
implementation difficult. In 2000, the MPRP won 72 of the 76 seats
in Parliament and completely reshuffled the government. While it
continues many of the reform policies, the MPRP is focusing on
social welfare and public order priorities.



Mongolia    Geography

Location: Northern Asia, between China and Russia

Geographic coordinates: 46 00 N, 105 00 E

Map references: Asia

Area: total:  1.565 million sq km

land:  1.565 million sq km

water:  0 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly smaller than Alaska

Land boundaries: total:  8,161.9 km

border countries:  China 4,676.9 km, Russia 3,485 km

Coastline: 0 km (landlocked)

Maritime claims: none (landlocked)

Climate: desert; continental (large daily and seasonal temperature
ranges)

Terrain: vast semidesert and desert plains, grassy steppe, mountains
in west and southwest; Gobi Desert in south-central

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Hoh Nuur 518 m

highest point:  Nayramadlin Orgil (Huyten Orgil) 4,374 m

Natural resources: oil, coal, copper, molybdenum, tungsten,
phosphates, tin, nickel, zinc, wolfram, fluorspar, gold, silver,
iron, phosphate

Land use: arable land:  5.7%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  81%

forests and woodland:  11.4%

other:  1.9% (2000 est.)

Irrigated land: 800 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: dust and snow storms, grassland and forest fires,
drought and "zud", which is a combination of drought followed by
harsh winter conditions

Environment - current issues: limited natural fresh water resources
in some areas; policies of the former communist regime promoting
rapid urbanization and industrial growth have raised concerns about
their negative effects on the environment; the burning of soft coal
in power plants and the lack of enforcement of environmental laws
have severely polluted the air in Ulaanbaatar; deforestation,
overgrazing, the converting of virgin land to agricultural
production have increased soil erosion from wind and rain;
desertification and mining activities have also had a deleterious
effect on the environment

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification,
Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes,
Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands

signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Geography - note: landlocked; strategic location between China and
Russia



Mongolia    People

Population: 2,654,999 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  32.99% (male 445,252; female 430,758)

15-64 years:  63.13% (male 837,771; female 838,384)

65 years and over:  3.88% (male 44,436; female 58,398) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 1.47% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 21.8 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 7.1 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.03 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.76 male(s)/female

total population:  1 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 53.5 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  64.26 years

male:  62.14 years

female:  66.5 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 2.39 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: less than 0.01% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: less than 100 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: NA

Nationality: noun:  Mongolian(s)

adjective:  Mongolian

Ethnic groups: Mongol (predominantly Khalkha) 85%, Turkic (of which
Kazakh is the largest group) 7%, Tungusic 4.6%, other (including
Chinese and Russian) 3.4% (1998)

Religions: Tibetan Buddhist Lamaism 96%, Muslim (primarily in the
southwest), Shamanism, and Christian 4% (1998)

Languages: Khalkha Mongol 90%, Turkic, Russian (1999)

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  97%

male:  98%

female:  97.5% (2000)



Mongolia    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  none

conventional short form:  Mongolia

local long form:  none

local short form:  Mongol Uls

former:  Outer Mongolia

Government type: parliamentary

Capital: Ulaanbaatar

Administrative divisions: 18 provinces (aymguud, singular - aymag)
and 3 municipalities* (hotuud, singular - hot); Arhangay,
Bayanhongor, Bayan-Olgiy, Bulgan, Darhan*, Dornod, Dornogovi,
Dundgovi, Dzavhan, Erdenet*, Govi-Altay, Hentiy, Hovd, Hovsgol,
Omnogovi, Ovorhangay, Selenge, Suhbaatar, Tov, Ulaanbaatar*, Uvs

note:  there may be a new province named Gobi-Sumber; further, there
may now be 21 provinces and 1 capital city instead of 18 provinces
and 3 municipalities

Independence: 11 July 1921 (from China)

National holiday: Independence Day/Revolution Day, 11 July (1921)

Constitution: 12 February 1992

Legal system: blend of Russian, Chinese, Turkish, and Western
systems of law that combines aspects of a parliamentary system with
some aspects of a presidential system; constitution ambiguous on
judicial review of legislative acts; has not accepted compulsory ICJ
jurisdiction

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Natsagiyn BAGABANDI
(since 20 June 1997)

head of government:  Prime Minister Nambaryn ENKHBAYAR (since 26
July 2000)

cabinet:  Cabinet appointed by the State Great Hural in consultation
with the president

elections:  president nominated by parties in the State Great Hural
and elected by popular vote for a four-year term; election last held
20 May 2001 (next to be held NA May 2005); following legislative
elections, the leader of the majority party or majority coalition is
usually elected prime minister by the State Great Hural; election
last held 2 July 2000 (next to be held NA 2004)

election results:  Natsagiyn BAGABANDI reelected president; percent
of vote - NA%; Nambaryn ENKHBAYAR elected prime minister by a vote
in the State Great Hural of 68 to 3

Legislative branch: unicameral State Great Hural (76 seats; members
elected by popular vote to serve four-year terms)

elections:  last held 2 July 2000 (next to be held NA July 2004)

election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
MPRP 72, other 4

Judicial branch: Supreme Court (serves as appeals court for people's
and provincial courts, but rarely overturns verdicts of lower
courts; judges are nominated by the General Council of Courts for
approval by the president)

Political parties and leaders: Citizens' Will Party or CWP (also
called Civil Will Party) [Sanjaasurengyn OYUN]; Democratic Party or
DP [D. DORLIGAN]; Mongolian People's Revolutionary Party or MPRP
[Nambaryn ENKHBAYAR]; Mongolian Democratic New Socialist Party or
MDNSP [B. ERDENEBAT]; Mongolian Republican Party or MRP [B.
JARGALSAIHAN]

note:  the MPRP is the ruling party

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: ARF (dialogue partner),
AsDB, ASEAN (observer), CCC, EBRD, ESCAP, FAO, G-77, IAEA, IBRD,
ICAO, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Intelsat,
Interpol, IOC, ISO, ITU, NAM, OPCW, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU,
WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Jalbuugiyn CHOINHOR

chancery:  2833 M Street NW, Washington, DC 20007

telephone:  [1] (202) 333-7117

FAX:  [1] (202) 298-9227

consulate(s) general:  New York

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
John DINGER

embassy:  inner north side of the Big Ring, just west of the Selbe
Gol, Ulaanbaatar

mailing address:  United States Embassy in Mongolia, P. O. Box 1021,
Ulaanbaatar 13; PSC 461, Box 300, FPO AP 96521-0002

telephone:  [976] (11) 329095

FAX:  [976] (11) 320776

Flag description: three equal, vertical bands of red (hoist side),
blue, and red; centered on the hoist-side red band in yellow is the
national emblem ("soyombo" - a columnar arrangement of abstract and
geometric representation for fire, sun, moon, earth, water, and the
yin-yang symbol)



Mongolia    Economy

Economy - overview: Economic activity traditionally has been based
on agriculture and breeding of livestock. Mongolia also has
extensive mineral deposits: copper, coal, molybdenum, tin, tungsten,
and gold account for a large part of industrial production. Soviet
assistance, at its height one-third of GDP, disappeared almost
overnight in 1990-91, at the time of the dismantlement of the USSR.
Mongolia was driven into deep recession, which was prolonged by the
Mongolian People's Revolutionary Party's (MPRP) reluctance to
undertake serious economic reform. The Democratic Coalition (DC)
government has embraced free-market economics, easing price
controls, liberalizing domestic and international trade, and
attempting to restructure the banking system and the energy sector.
Major domestic privatization programs were undertaken, as well as
the fostering of foreign investment through international tender of
the oil distribution company, a leading cashmere company, and banks.
Reform was held back by the ex-communist MPRP opposition and by the
political instability brought about through four successive
governments under the DC. Economic growth picked up in 1997-99 after
stalling in 1996 due to a series of natural disasters and declines
in world prices of copper and cashmere. In August and September
1999, the economy suffered from a temporary Russian ban on exports
of oil and oil products, and Mongolia remains vulnerable in this
sector. Mongolia joined the World Trade Organization (WTrO) in 1997.
The international donor community pledged over $300 million per year
at the last Consultative Group Meeting, held in Ulaanbaatar in June
1999. The MPRP government, elected in July 2000, is anxious to
improve the investment climate; it must also deal with a heavy
burden of external debt.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $4.7 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: -1% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $1,780 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  36%

industry:  22%

services:  42% (2000 est.)

Population below poverty line: 40% (2000 est.)

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:
2.9%

highest 10%:  24.5% (1995)

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 7.6% (1999)

Labor force: 1.3 million (1999)

Labor force - by occupation: primarily herding/agricultural

Unemployment rate: NA%

Budget: revenues:  $262 million

expenditures:  $328 million, including capital expenditures of $NA
(2000 est.)

Industries: construction materials, mining (particularly coal and
copper); food and beverages, processing of animal products

Industrial production growth rate: 2.4% (2000 est.)

Electricity - production: 2.671 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  100%

hydro:  0%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 2.767 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 80 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 363 million kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: wheat, barley, potatoes, forage crops;
sheep, goats, cattle, camels, horses

Exports: $454.3 million (f.o.b., 1999)

Exports - commodities: copper, livestock, animal products, cashmere,
wool, hides, fluorspar, other nonferrous metals

Exports - partners: China 60%, US 20%, Russia 9%, Japan 2% (2000
est.)

Imports: $510.7 million (c.i.f., 1999)

Imports - commodities: machinery and equipment, fuels, food
products, industrial consumer goods, chemicals, building materials,
sugar, tea

Imports - partners: Russia 33%, China 21%, Japan 12%, South Korea
10%, US 4% (1999)

Debt - external: $760 million (2000 est.)

Economic aid - recipient: $200 million (1998 est.)

Currency: togrog/tugrik (MNT)

Currency code: MNT

Exchange rates: togrogs/tugriks per US dollar - 1,097.00 (December
2000), 1,076.67 (2000), 1,072.37 (1999), 840.83 (1998), 789.99
(1997), 548.40 (1996)

Fiscal year: calendar year



Mongolia    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 104,100 (1999)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 110,000 (2001)

Telephone system: general assessment:  very low density: about 3.5
telephones for each thousand persons

domestic:  NA

international:  satellite earth station - 1 Intersputnik (Indian
Ocean Region)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 7, FM 9, shortwave 4 (2001)

Radios: 155,900 (1999)

Television broadcast stations: 4 (plus 18 provincial repeaters and
many low powered repeaters) (1999)

Televisions: 168,800 (1999)

Internet country code: .mn

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 5 (2001)

Internet users: between 10,000 and 15,000 (2001)



Mongolia    Transportation

Railways: 1,815 km

broad gauge:  1,815 km 1.524-m gauge (2001)

Highways: total:  3,387 km

paved:  1,563 km

unpaved:  1,824 km

note:  there are also 45,862 km of rural roads that consist of
rough, unimproved, cross-country tracks (2000)

Waterways: 400 km (1999)

Ports and harbors: none

Airports: 34 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  8

2,438 to 3,047 m:  7

under 914 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  26

over 3,047 m:  3

2,438 to 3,047 m:  5

1,524 to 2,437 m:  10

914 to 1,523 m:  3

under 914 m:  5 (2000 est.)



Mongolia    Military

Military branches: Mongolian Armed Forces (includes General Purpose
Forces, Air and Air Defense Forces, Civil Defense Troops); note -
Border Troops are under Ministry of Justice and Home Affairs in
peacetime

Military manpower - military age: 18 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  748,779 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
486,491 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  30,230
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $25.5 million (FY01)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 2.3% (FY01)



Mongolia    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

======================================================================

@Montserrat





Montserrat    Introduction

Background: Much of this island has been devastated and two-thirds
of the population has fled abroad due to the eruption of the
Soufriere Hills volcano that began on 18 July 1995.



Montserrat    Geography

Location: Caribbean, island in the Caribbean Sea, southeast of
Puerto Rico

Geographic coordinates: 16 45 N, 62 12 W

Map references: Central America and the Caribbean

Area: total:  100 sq km

land:  100 sq km

water:  0 sq km

Area - comparative: about 0.6 times the size of Washington, DC

Land boundaries: 0 km

Coastline: 40 km

Maritime claims: exclusive fishing zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  3 NM

Climate: tropical; little daily or seasonal temperature variation

Terrain: volcanic islands, mostly mountainous, with small coastal
lowland

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Caribbean Sea 0 m

highest point:  Chances Peak (in the Soufriere Hills) 914 m

Natural resources: NEGL

Land use: arable land:  20%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  10%

forests and woodland:  40%

other:  30% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: NA sq km

Natural hazards: severe hurricanes (June to November); volcanic
eruptions (full-scale eruptions of the Soufriere Hills volcano
occurred during 1996-97)

Environment - current issues: land erosion occurs on slopes that
have been cleared for cultivation



Montserrat    People

Population: 7,574

note:  an estimated 8,000 refugees left the island following the
resumption of volcanic activity in July 1995; some have returned
(July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  23.83% (male 907; female 898)

15-64 years:  64.66% (male 2,341; female 2,556)

65 years and over:  11.51% (male 464; female 408) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 13.39% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 17.43 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 7.53 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 123.98 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.01 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  0.92 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  1.14 male(s)/female

total population:  0.96 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 8.19 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  78.03 years

male:  75.95 years

female:  80.22 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 1.82 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: NA%

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: NA

HIV/AIDS - deaths: NA

Nationality: noun:  Montserratian(s)

adjective:  Montserratian

Ethnic groups: black, white

Religions: Anglican, Methodist, Roman Catholic, Pentecostal,
Seventh-Day Adventist, other Christian denominations

Languages: English

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over has ever attended school

total population:  97%

male:  97%

female:  97% (1970 est.)



Montserrat    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  none

conventional short form:  Montserrat

Dependency status: overseas territory of the UK

Government type: NA

Capital: Plymouth (abandoned in 1997 due to volcanic activity;
interim government buildings have been built at Brades, in the
Carr's Bay/Little Bay vicinity at the northwest end of Montserrat)

Administrative divisions: 3 parishes; Saint Anthony, Saint Georges,
Saint Peter's

Independence: none (overseas territory of the UK)

National holiday: Birthday of Queen ELIZABETH II, second Saturday in
June (1926)

Constitution: present constitution came into force 19 December 1989

Legal system: English common law and statutory law

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6
February 1952), represented by Governor Anthony John ABBOTT (since
NA September 1997)

head of government:  Chief Minister David BRANDT (since 22 August
1997)

cabinet:  Executive Council consists of the governor, the chief
minister, three other ministers, the attorney general, and the
finance secretary

elections:  the monarch is hereditary; governor appointed by the
monarch; following legislative elections, the leader of the majority
party usually becomes chief minister; note - as a result of the last
election, a coalition party was formed between NPP, NDP, and one of
the independent candidates

Legislative branch: unicameral Legislative Council (11 seats, 7
popularly elected; members serve five-year terms)

elections:  last held 11 November 1996 (next to be held by NA
November 2001)

election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
PPA 2, MNR 2, NPP 1, independent 2

Judicial branch: Eastern Caribbean Supreme Court (based in Saint
Lucia, one judge of the Supreme Court is a resident of the islands
and presides over the High Court)

Political parties and leaders: Movement for National Reconstruction
or MNR [Percival Austin BRAMBLE]; National Development Party or NDP
[leader NA]; National Progressive Party or NPP [Reuben T. MEADE];
People's Progressive Alliance or PPA [John A. OSBORNE]

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: Caricom, CDB, ECLAC
(associate), ICFTU, Interpol (subbureau), OECS, WCL

Diplomatic representation in the US: none (overseas territory of the
UK)

Diplomatic representation from the US: none (overseas territory of
the UK)

Flag description: blue, with the flag of the UK in the upper
hoist-side quadrant and the Montserratian coat of arms centered in
the outer half of the flag; the coat of arms features a woman
standing beside a yellow harp with her arm around a black cross



Montserrat    Economy

Economy - overview: Severe volcanic activity, which began in July
1995, has put a damper on this small, open economy. A catastrophic
eruption in June 1997 closed the airports and seaports, causing
further economic and social dislocation. Two-thirds of the 12,000
inhabitants fled the island. Some began to return in 1998, but lack
of housing limited the number. The agriculture sector continued to
be affected by the lack of suitable land for farming and the
destruction of crops. Prospects for the economy depend largely on
developments in relation to the volcano and on public sector
construction activity. The UK committed to a three year $125 million
aid program in 1999 to help reconstruct the economy.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $31 million (1999 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: -1.5% (1999 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $5,000 (1999 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  5.4%

industry:  13.6%

services:  81% (1996 est.)

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 5% (1998)

Labor force: 4,521 (1992); note - recently lowered by flight of
people from volcanic activity

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture NA%, industry NA%, services
NA%

Unemployment rate: 20% (1996 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $31.4 million

expenditures:  $31.6 million, including capital expenditures of $8.4
million (1997 est.)

Industries: tourism, rum, textiles, electronic appliances

Industrial production growth rate: NA%

Electricity - production: 10 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  100%

hydro:  0%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 9.3 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: cabbages, carrots, cucumbers, tomatoes,
onions, peppers; livestock products

Exports: $1.5 million (1998)

Exports - commodities: electronic components, plastic bags, apparel,
hot peppers, live plants, cattle

Exports - partners: US, Antigua and Barbuda (1993)

Imports: $26 million (1998)

Imports - commodities: machinery and transportation equipment,
foodstuffs, manufactured goods, fuels, lubricants, and related
materials

Imports - partners: US, UK, Trinidad and Tobago, Japan, Canada (1993)

Debt - external: $8.9 million (1997)

Economic aid - recipient: $9.8 million (1995); note - about $100
million (1996-98) in reconstruction aid from the UK; Country Policy
Plan (1999) is a three-year program for spending $122.8 million in
British budgetary assistance

Currency: East Caribbean dollar (XCD)

Currency code: XCD

Exchange rates: East Caribbean dollars per US dollar - 2.7000 (fixed
rate since 1976)

Fiscal year: 1 April - 31 March



Montserrat    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 4,000 (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 70 (1994)

Telephone system: general assessment:  NA

domestic:  NA

international:  NA

Radio broadcast stations: AM 1, FM 2, shortwave 0 (1998)

Radios: 7,000 (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 1 (1997)

Televisions: 3,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .ms

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 17 (2000)

Internet users: NA



Montserrat    Transportation

Railways: 0 km

Highways: total:  269 km

paved:  203 km

unpaved:  66 km (1995)

Waterways: none

Ports and harbors: Plymouth (abandoned), Little Bay (anchorages and
ferry landing), Carr's Bay

Merchant marine: none (2000 est.)

Airports: 1 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  1

under 914 m:  1 (2000 est.)



Montserrat    Military

Military branches: Police Force

Military - note: defense is the responsibility of the UK



Montserrat    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

Illicit drugs: transshipment point for South American narcotics
destined for the US and Europe

======================================================================

@Morocco




Morocco    Introduction

Background: Morocco's long struggle for independence from France
ended in 1956. The internationalized city of Tangier was turned over
to the new country that same year. Morocco virtually annexed Western
Sahara during the late 1970s, but final resolution on the status of
the territory remains unresolved. Gradual political reforms in the
1990s resulted in the establishment of a bicameral legislature in
1997.



Morocco    Geography

Location: Northern Africa, bordering the North Atlantic Ocean and
the Mediterranean Sea, between Algeria and Western Sahara

Geographic coordinates: 32 00 N, 5 00 W

Map references: Africa

Area: total:  446,550 sq km

land:  446,300 sq km

water:  250 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly larger than California

Land boundaries: total:  2,017.9 km

border countries:  Algeria 1,559 km, Western Sahara 443 km, Spain
(Ceuta) 6.3 km, Spain (Melilla) 9.6 km

Coastline: 1,835 km

Maritime claims: contiguous zone:  24 NM

continental shelf:  200-m depth or to the depth of exploitation

exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: Mediterranean, becoming more extreme in the interior

Terrain: northern coast and interior are mountainous with large
areas of bordering plateaus, intermontane valleys, and rich coastal
plains

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Sebkha Tah -55 m

highest point:  Jbel Toubkal 4,165 m

Natural resources: phosphates, iron ore, manganese, lead, zinc,
fish, salt

Land use: arable land:  21%

permanent crops:  1%

permanent pastures:  47%

forests and woodland:  20%

other:  11% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 12,580 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: northern mountains geologically unstable and
subject to earthquakes; periodic droughts

Environment - current issues: land degradation/desertification (soil
erosion resulting from farming of marginal areas, overgrazing,
destruction of vegetation); water supplies contaminated by raw
sewage; siltation of reservoirs; oil pollution of coastal waters

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous
Wastes, Marine Dumping, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection,
Ship Pollution, Wetlands, Whaling

signed, but not ratified:  Environmental Modification, Law of the Sea

Geography - note: strategic location along Strait of Gibraltar



Morocco    People

Population: 30,645,305 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  34.39% (male 5,368,784; female 5,170,891)

15-64 years:  60.93% (male 9,270,095; female 9,402,561)

65 years and over:  4.68% (male 646,567; female 786,407) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 1.71% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 24.16 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 5.94 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: -1.15 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  0.99 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.82 male(s)/female

total population:  1 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 48.11 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  69.43 years

male:  67.2 years

female:  71.76 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 3.05 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 0.03% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: NA

HIV/AIDS - deaths: NA

Nationality: noun:  Moroccan(s)

adjective:  Moroccan

Ethnic groups: Arab-Berber 99.1%, other 0.7%, Jewish 0.2%

Religions: Muslim 98.7%, Christian 1.1%, Jewish 0.2%

Languages: Arabic (official), Berber dialects, French often the
language of business, government, and diplomacy

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  43.7%

male:  56.6%

female:  31% (1995 est.)



Morocco    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Kingdom of Morocco

conventional short form:  Morocco

local long form:  Al Mamlakah al Maghribiyah

local short form:  Al Maghrib

Government type: constitutional monarchy

Capital: Rabat

Administrative divisions: 37 provinces and 2 wilayas*; Agadir, Al
Hoceima, Azilal, Beni Mellal, Ben Slimane, Boulemane, Casablanca*,
Chaouen, El Jadida, El Kelaa des Srarhna, Er Rachidia, Essaouira,
Fes, Figuig, Guelmim, Ifrane, Kenitra, Khemisset, Khenifra,
Khouribga, Laayoune, Larache, Marrakech, Meknes, Nador, Ouarzazate,
Oujda, Rabat-Sale*, Safi, Settat, Sidi Kacem, Tanger, Tan-Tan,
Taounate, Taroudannt, Tata, Taza, Tetouan, Tiznit

note:  three additional provinces of Ad Dakhla (Oued Eddahab),
Boujdour, and Es Smara as well as parts of Tan-Tan and Laayoune fall
within Moroccan-claimed Western Sahara;
decentralization/regionalization law passed by the legislature in
March 1997 creating many new provinces/regions; specific details and
scope of the reorganization not yet available

Independence: 2 March 1956 (from France)

National holiday: Throne Day (accession of King MOHAMED VI to the
throne), 30 July (1999)

Constitution: 10 March 1972, revised 4 September 1992, amended (to
create bicameral legislature) September 1996

Legal system: based on Islamic law and French and Spanish civil law
system; judicial review of legislative acts in Constitutional
Chamber of Supreme Court

Suffrage: 21 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  King MOHAMED VI (since 23 July
1999)

head of government:  Prime Minister Abderrahmane YOUSSOUFI (since 14
March 1998)

cabinet:  Council of Ministers appointed by the monarch

elections:  none; the monarch is hereditary; prime minister
appointed by the monarch following legislative elections

Legislative branch: bicameral Parliament consists of an upper house
or Chamber of Counselors (270 seats; members elected indirectly by
local councils, professional organizations, and labor syndicates for
nine-year terms; one-third of the members are renewed every three
years) and a lower house or Chamber of Representatives (325 seats;
members elected by popular vote for five-year terms)

elections:  Chamber of Counselors - last held 15 September 2000
(next to be held NA 2002); Chamber of Representatives - last held 14
November 1997 (next to be held NA November 2002)

election results:  Chamber of Counselors - percent of vote by party
- NA%; seats by party - NA; Chamber of Representatives - percent of
vote by party - NA%; seats by party - USFP 57, UC 50, RNI 46, MP 40,
MDS 32, IP 32, MNP 19, PND 10, MPCD 9, PPS 9, FFD 9, PSD 5, OADP 4,
PA 2, PDI 1

note:  CDT, UTM, UGTM, UNMT are all labor unions listed under
Political pressure groups and leaders; see explanation in the
description of Parliament

Judicial branch: Supreme Court (judges are appointed on the
recommendation of the Supreme Council of the Judiciary, presided
over by the monarch)

Political parties and leaders: Action Party or PA [Muhammad IDRISS];
Constitutional Union or UC [leader NA]; Democratic Forces Front or
FFD [Thami KHIARI]; Democratic Socialist Party or PSD [Issa
OUARDIGHI]; Democratic Party for Independence or PDI [Thami
EL-OUAZZANI, Said BOUACHRINE]; Istiqlal Party or IP [Abbas
El-FASSI]; Labor Party or UT [leader NA]; National Democratic Party
or PND [Mohamed Arsalane EL-JADIDI]; National Popular Movement or
MNP [Mahjoubi AHERDANE]; National Rally of Independents or RNI
[Ahmed OSMAN]; Organization of Democratic and Popular Action or OADP
[Mohamed BEN SAID ait Idder]; Party of Progress and Socialism or PPS
[Moulay Ismail ALAOUI]; Popular Constitutional and Democratic
Movement or MPCD (has become Party of Justice and Development or
PJD) [Dr. Abdelkarim KHATIB]; Popular Movement or MP [Mohamed
LAENSER]; Social Democratic Movement or MDS [Mahmoud ARCHANE];
Socialist Union of Popular Forces or USFP [Abd ar-Rahman
EL-YOUSSOUFI]

Political pressure groups and leaders: Association of Popular Trade
Unions or ADP [leader NA]; Democratic Confederation of Labor or CDT
[Noubir AMAOUI]; Democratic National Trade Union or USND [leader
NA]; Democratic Trade Union or SD [leader NA]; General Union of
Moroccan Workers or UGTM [Abderrazzak AFILAL]; Labor Union
Commissions or CS [leader NA]; Moroccan National Workers Union or
UNMT [leader NA]; Moroccan Union of Workers or UTM [Mahjoub
BENSEDIQ]; Party of Shura and Istiqla [Abdelwaheb MAASH]

International organization participation: ABEDA, ACCT (associate),
AfDB, AFESD, AL, AMF, AMU, CCC, EBRD, ECA, FAO, G-77, IAEA, IBRD,
ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF,
IMO, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO, ITU, MONUC, NAM, OAS
(observer), OIC, OPCW, OSCE (partner), UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR,
UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Abdullah MAAROUFI

chancery:  1601 21st Street NW, Washington, DC 20009

telephone:  [1] (202) 462-7979 through 7982

FAX:  [1] (202) 265-0161

consulate(s) general:  New York

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Edward M. GABRIEL

embassy:  2 Avenue de Mohamed El Fassi, Rabat

mailing address:  PSC 74, Box 3, APO AE 90718

telephone:  [212] (37) 76 22 65

FAX:  [212] (37) 76 56 61

consulate(s) general:  Casablanca

Flag description: red with a green pentacle (five-pointed, linear
star) known as Solomon's seal in the center of the flag; green is
the traditional color of Islam



Morocco    Economy

Economy - overview: Morocco faces the problems typical of developing
countries - restraining government spending, reducing constraints on
private activity and foreign trade, and achieving sustainable
economic growth. Following structural adjustment programs supported
by the IMF, World Bank, and the Paris Club, the dirham is now fully
convertible for current account transactions, and reforms of the
financial sector have been implemented. Drought conditions depressed
activity in the key agricultural sector and contributed to a
stagnant economy in 1999 and 2000. During that time, however,
Morocco reported large foreign exchange inflows from the sale of a
mobile telephone license and partial privatization of the
state-owned telecommunications company. Favorable rainfalls have led
Morocco to predict a growth of 1% for 2001. Formidable long-term
challenges include: servicing the external debt; preparing the
economy for freer trade with the EU; and improving education and
attracting foreign investment to boost living standards and job
prospects for Morocco's youthful population.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $105 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 0.8% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $3,500 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  15%

industry:  33%

services:  52% (1999 est.)

Population below poverty line: 19% (1999 est.)

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:
2.6%

highest 10%:  30.9% (1998-99)

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 2% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 11 million (1997 est.)

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture 50%, services 35%, industry
15% (1999 est.)

Unemployment rate: 23% (1999 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $9.6 billion

expenditures:  $8.6 billion, including capital expenditures of $2.1
billion (2001 est.)

Industries: phosphate rock mining and processing, food processing,
leather goods, textiles, construction, tourism

Industrial production growth rate: 0.5% (1999 est.)

Electricity - production: 13.695 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  89.19%

hydro:  10.81%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 13.441 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 705 million kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: barley, wheat, citrus, wine, vegetables,
olives; livestock

Exports: $7.6 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Exports - commodities: phosphates and fertilizers, food and
beverages, minerals

Exports - partners: France 35%, Spain 9%, UK 8%, Germany 7%, US 5%
(1999)

Imports: $12.2 billion (f.o.b., 1999 est.)

Imports - commodities: semiprocessed goods, machinery and equipment,
food and beverages, consumer goods, fuel

Imports - partners: France 32%, Spain 12%, Italy 7%, Germany 6%, UK
6% (1999)

Debt - external: $18.4 billion (2000 est.)

Economic aid - recipient: $565.6 million (1995)

Currency: Moroccan dirham (MAD)

Currency code: MAD

Exchange rates: Moroccan dirhams per US dollar - 10.590 (January
2001), 10.626 (2000), 9.804 (1999), 9.604 (1998), 9.527 (1997),
8.716 (1996)

Fiscal year: calendar year



Morocco    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 1.391 million (1998)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 116,645 (1998)

Telephone system: general assessment:  modern system with all
important capabilities; however density is low with only 4.6 main
lines available for each 100 persons

domestic:  good system composed of open-wire lines, cables, and
microwave radio relay links; Internet available but expensive;
principal switching centers are Casablanca and Rabat; national
network nearly 100% digital using fiber-optic links; improved rural
service employs microwave radio relay

international:  7 submarine cables; satellite earth stations - 2
Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean) and 1 Arabsat; microwave radio relay to
Gibraltar, Spain, and Western Sahara; coaxial cable and microwave
radio relay to Algeria; participant in Medarabtel; fiber-optic cable
link from Agadir to Algeria and Tunisia (1998)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 27, FM 25, shortwave 6 (1998)

Radios: 6.64 million (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 35 (plus 66 repeaters) (1995)

Televisions: 3.1 million (1997)

Internet country code: .ma

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 8 (2000)

Internet users: 120,000 (1999)



Morocco    Transportation

Railways: total:  1,907 km

standard gauge:  1,907 km 1.435-m gauge (1,003 km electrified; 540
km double track)

Highways: total:  57,847 km

paved:  30,254 km (including 327 km of expressways)

unpaved:  27,593 km (1998)

Waterways: none

Pipelines: crude oil 362 km; petroleum products 491 km (abandoned);
natural gas 241 km

Ports and harbors: Agadir, El Jadida, Casablanca, El Jorf Lasfar,
Kenitra, Mohammedia, Nador, Rabat, Safi, Tangier; also
Spanish-controlled Ceuta and Melilla

Merchant marine: total:  41 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
223,052 GRT/272,786 DWT

ships by type:  cargo 9, chemical tanker 6, container 5, petroleum
tanker 3, refrigerated cargo 9, roll on/roll off 8, short-sea
passenger 1 (2000 est.)

Airports: 69 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  26

over 3,047 m:  10

2,438 to 3,047 m:  5

1,524 to 2,437 m:  9

914 to 1,523 m:  1

under 914 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  43

2,438 to 3,047 m:  1

1,524 to 2,437 m:  11

914 to 1,523 m:  20

under 914 m:  11 (2000 est.)

Heliports: 1 (2000 est.)



Morocco    Military

Military branches: Royal Armed Forces (includes Army, Navy, Air
Force), Gendarmerie, Auxiliary Forces

Military manpower - military age: 18 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  8,182,073 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
5,160,374 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  348,380
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $1.4 billion (FY99/00)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 4% (FY99/00)



Morocco    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: claims and administers Western Sahara, but
sovereignty is unresolved and the UN is attempting to hold a
referendum on the issue; the UN-administered cease-fire has been in
effect since September 1991; Spain controls five places of
sovereignty (plazas de soberania) on and off the coast of Morocco -
the coastal enclaves of Ceuta and Melilla which Morocco contests, as
well as the islands of Penon de Alhucemas, Penon de Velez de la
Gomera, and Islas Chafarinas

Illicit drugs: illicit producer of hashish; trafficking on the
increase for both domestic and international drug markets; shipments
of hashish mostly directed to Western Europe; transit point for
cocaine from South America destined for Western Europe

======================================================================

@Mozambique




Mozambique    Introduction

Background: Almost five centuries as a Portuguese colony came to a
close with independence in 1975. Large-scale emigration by whites,
economic dependence on South Africa, a severe drought, and a
prolonged civil war hindered the country's development. The ruling
party formally abandoned Marxism in 1989, and a new constitution the
following year provided for multiparty elections and a free market
economy. A UN-negotiated peace agreement with rebel forces ended the
fighting in 1992.



Mozambique    Geography

Location: Southern Africa, bordering the Mozambique Channel, between
South Africa and Tanzania

Geographic coordinates: 18 15 S, 35 00 E

Map references: Africa

Area: total:  801,590 sq km

land:  784,090 sq km

water:  17,500 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly less than twice the size of California

Land boundaries: total:  4,571 km

border countries:  Malawi 1,569 km, South Africa 491 km, Swaziland
105 km, Tanzania 756 km, Zambia 419 km, Zimbabwe 1,231 km

Coastline: 2,470 km

Maritime claims: exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: tropical to subtropical

Terrain: mostly coastal lowlands, uplands in center, high plateaus
in northwest, mountains in west

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Indian Ocean 0 m

highest point:  Monte Binga 2,436 m

Natural resources: coal, titanium, natural gas, hydropower,
tantalum, graphite

Land use: arable land:  4%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  56%

forests and woodland:  18%

other:  22% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 1,200 sq km (2000 est.)

Natural hazards: severe droughts and floods occur in central and
southern provinces; devastating cyclones

Environment - current issues: a long civil war and recurrent drought
in the hinterlands have resulted in increased migration of the
population to urban and coastal areas with adverse environmental
consequences; desertification; pollution of surface and coastal
waters

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous
Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection

signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements



Mozambique    People

Population: 19,371,057

note:  estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
life expectancy, higher infant mortality and death rates, lower
population and growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected; the 1997
Mozambican census reported a population of 16,099,246 (July 2001
est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  42.72% (male 4,124,093; female 4,152,135)

15-64 years:  54.53% (male 5,222,477; female 5,339,615)

65 years and over:  2.75% (male 221,678; female 311,059) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 1.3% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 37.2 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 24.21 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.03 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  0.99 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  0.98 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.71 male(s)/female

total population:  0.98 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 139.2 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  36.45 years

male:  37.25 years

female:  35.62 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 4.82 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 13.22% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 1.2 million (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: 98,000 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Mozambican(s)

adjective:  Mozambican

Ethnic groups: indigenous tribal groups 99.66% (Shangaan, Chokwe,
Manyika, Sena, Makua, and others), Europeans 0.06%, Euro-Africans
0.2%, Indians 0.08%

Religions: indigenous beliefs 50%, Christian 30%, Muslim 20%

Languages: Portuguese (official), indigenous dialects

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  42.3%

male:  58.4%

female:  27% (1998 est.)



Mozambique    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Republic of Mozambique

conventional short form:  Mozambique

local long form:  Republica de Mocambique

local short form:  Mocambique

former:  Portuguese East Africa

Government type: republic

Capital: Maputo

Administrative divisions: 10 provinces (provincias, singular -
provincia); Cabo Delgado, Gaza, Inhambane, Manica, Maputo, Nampula,
Niassa, Sofala, Tete, Zambezia

Independence: 25 June 1975 (from Portugal)

National holiday: Independence Day, 25 June (1975)

Constitution: 30 November 1990

Legal system: based on Portuguese civil law system and customary law

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Joaquim Alberto
CHISSANO (since 6 November 1986); note - before being popularly
elected, CHISSANO was elected president by Frelimo's Central
Committee 4 November 1986 (reelected by the Committee 30 July 1989)

head of government:  Prime Minister Pascoal MOCUMBI (since NA
December 1994)

cabinet:  Cabinet

elections:  president elected by popular vote for a five-year term;
election last held 3-5 December 1999 (next to be held NA 2004);
prime minister appointed by the president

election results:  Joaquim Alberto CHISSANO reelected president;
percent of vote - Joaquim Alberto CHISSANO 52.29%, Afonso DHLAKAMA
47.71%

Legislative branch: unicameral Assembly of the Republic or
Assembleia da Republica (250 seats; members are directly elected by
popular vote on a secret ballot to serve five-year terms)

elections:  last held 3-5 December 1999 (next to be held NA 2004)

election results:  percent of vote by party - Frelimo 48.54%,
Renamo-UE 38.81%; seats by party - Frelimo 133, Renamo-UE 117

note:  Renamo-UE ran as a multiparty coalition; none of the other
opposition parties received the 5% required to win parliamentary
seats

Judicial branch: Supreme Court (the court of final appeal; some of
its professional judges are appointed by the president and some are
elected by the Assembly); other courts include an Administrative
Court, customs courts, maritime courts, courts marshal, labor courts

note:  although the constitution provides for the creation of a
separate Constitutional Court, one has never been established; in
its absence the Supreme Court reviews constitutional cases

Political parties and leaders: Front for the Liberation of
Mozambique (Frente de Liberatacao de Mocambique) or Frelimo [Joaquim
Alberto CHISSANO, chairman]; Mozambique National Resistance -
Electoral Union (Resistencia Nacional Mocambicana - Uniao Eleitoral)
or Renamo-UE [Afonso DHLAKAMA, president]

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: ACP, AfDB, C, CCC, ECA,
FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO,
ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM (observer),
ISO (correspondent), ITU, NAM, OAU, OIC, OPCW, SADC, UN, UNCTAD,
UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNTAET, UPU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Marcos Geraldo NAMASHULUA

chancery:  Suite 570, 1990 M Street NW, Washington, DC 20036

telephone:  [1] (202) 293-7146

FAX:  [1] (202) 835-0245

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Sharon P. WILKINSON

embassy:  Avenida Kenneth Kuanda 193, Maputo

mailing address:  P. O. Box 783, Maputo

telephone:  [258] (1) 492797

FAX:  [258] (1) 490114

Flag description: three equal horizontal bands of green (top),
black, and yellow with a red isosceles triangle based on the hoist
side; the black band is edged in white; centered in the triangle is
a yellow five-pointed star bearing a crossed rifle and hoe in black
superimposed on an open white book



Mozambique    Economy

Economy - overview: Before the peace accord of October 1992,
Mozambique's economy was devastated by a protracted civil war and
socialist mismanagement. In 1994, it ranked as one of the poorest
countries in the world. Since then, Mozambique has undertaken a
series of economic reforms. Almost all aspects of the economy have
been liberalized to some extent. More than 900 state enterprises
have been privatized. A value-added tax, introduced in 1999,
launched the government's comprehensive tax reform program. Pending
are much needed commercial code reform and greater private sector
involvement in the transportation, telecommunications, and energy
sectors. Since 1996, inflation has been low and foreign exchange
rates relatively stable. Albeit from a small base, Mozambique's
economy grew at an annual 10% rate in 1997-99, one of the highest
growth rates in the world. Growth slowed and inflation rose in 2000
due to devastating flooding in the early part of the year. Both
indicators should recover in 2001. The country depends on foreign
assistance to balance the budget and to pay for a trade imbalance in
which imports greatly outnumber exports. The trade situation should
improve in the medium term, however, as trade and transportation
links to South Africa and the rest of the region have been improved
and sizeable foreign investments are beginning to materialize. Among
these investments are metal production (aluminum, steel), natural
gas, power generation, agriculture, fishing, timber, and
transportation services. Mozambique has received a formal
cancellation of a large portion of its external debt through an IMF
initiative and is scheduled to receive additional relief.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $19.1 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 3.8% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $1,000 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  44%

industry:  19%

services:  37% (1999 est.)

Population below poverty line: 70% (2000 est.)

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:
2.5%

highest 10%:  31.7% (1996-97)

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 11.4% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 7.4 million (1997 est.)

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture 81%, industry 6%, services
13% (1997 est.)

Unemployment rate: 21% (1997 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $466.9 million

expenditures:  $1.004 billion, including capital expenditures of
$502.5 million (2000 est.)

Industries: food, beverages, chemicals (fertilizer, soap, paints),
petroleum products, textiles, cement, glass, asbestos, tobacco

Industrial production growth rate: 7.2% (1999)

Electricity - production: 2.3 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  13.04%

hydro:  86.96%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 307 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 1.9 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 68 million kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: cotton, cashew nuts, sugarcane, tea, cassava
(tapioca), corn, rice, coconuts, sisal, tropical fruits; beef,
poultry

Exports: $390 million (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Exports - commodities: prawns 40%, cashews, cotton, sugar, citrus,
timber; bulk electricity (2000)

Exports - partners: EU 27%, South Africa 26%, Zimbabwe 15%, India
12%, US 5%, Japan 4% (1999 est.)

Imports: $1.4 billion (c.i.f., 2000 est.)

Imports - commodities: machinery and equipment, mineral products,
chemicals, metals, foodstuffs, textiles (2000)

Imports - partners: South Africa 44%, EU 16%, US 6.5%, Japan 6.5%,
Pakistan 3%, India 3% (1999 est.)

Debt - external: $1.4 billion (2000 est.)

Economic aid - recipient: $1.04 billion (1998)

Currency: metical (MZM)

Currency code: MZM

Exchange rates: meticais per US dollar - 17,331.0 (January 2001),
5,199.8 (2000), 12,775.1 (1999), 11,874.6 (1998), 11.543.6 (1997),
11,293.8 (1996)

Fiscal year: calendar year



Mozambique    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 65,354 (2000)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 18,500 (2000)

Telephone system: general assessment:  fair system but not available
generally (telephone density is only 3.5 telephones for each 1,000
persons)

domestic:  the system consists of open-wire lines and trunk
connection by microwave radio relay and tropospheric scatter

international:  satellite earth stations - 5 Intelsat (2 Atlantic
Ocean and 3 Indian Ocean)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 13, FM 16, shortwave 12 (2000)

Radios: 730,000 (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 1 (2000)

Televisions: 67,600 (2000)

Internet country code: .mz

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 8 (2000)

Internet users: 6,250

note:  150 corporate accounts and 6,100 individual accounts (2000)



Mozambique    Transportation

Railways: total:  3,131 km

narrow gauge:  2,988 km 1.067-m gauge; 143 km 0.762-m gauge (1994)

Highways: total:  30,400 km

paved:  5,685 km

unpaved:  24,715 km (1996)

Waterways: 3,750 km (navigable routes)

Pipelines: crude oil 306 km; petroleum products 289 km

note:  not operating

Ports and harbors: Beira, Inhambane, Maputo, Nacala, Pemba, Quelimane

Merchant marine: total:  3 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 4,125
GRT/7,024 DWT

ships by type:  cargo 3 (2000 est.)

Airports: 168 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  22

over 3,047 m:  1

2,438 to 3,047 m:  3

1,524 to 2,437 m:  10

914 to 1,523 m:  3

under 914 m:  5 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  146

2,438 to 3,047 m:  1

1,524 to 2,437 m:  16

914 to 1,523 m:  37

under 914 m:  92 (2000 est.)



Mozambique    Military

Military branches: Army, Naval Command, Air and Air Defense Forces,
Militia

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  4,627,052 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
2,670,933 (2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $35.1 million (2000 est.)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 1% (2000 est.)



Mozambique    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

Illicit drugs: Southern African transit point for South Asian
hashish, South Asian heroin, and South American cocaine probably
destined for the European and South African markets; producer of
cannabis (for local consumption) and methaqualone (for export to
South Africa)

======================================================================

@Namibia




Namibia    Introduction

Background: South Africa occupied the German colony of Sud-West
Afrika during World War I and administered it as a mandate until
after World War II when it annexed the territory. In 1966 the
Marxist South-West Africa People's Organization (SWAPO) guerrilla
group launched a war of independence for the area that was soon
named Namibia, but it was not until 1988 that South Africa agreed to
end its administration in accordance with a UN peace plan for the
entire region. Independence came in 1990.



Namibia    Geography

Location: Southern Africa, bordering the South Atlantic Ocean,
between Angola and South Africa

Geographic coordinates: 22 00 S, 17 00 E

Map references: Africa

Area: total:  825,418 sq km

land:  825,418 sq km

water:  0 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly more than half the size of Alaska

Land boundaries: total:  3,824 km

border countries:  Angola 1,376 km, Botswana 1,360 km, South Africa
855 km, Zambia 233 km

Coastline: 1,572 km

Maritime claims: contiguous zone:  24 NM

exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: desert; hot, dry; rainfall sparse and erratic

Terrain: mostly high plateau; Namib Desert along coast; Kalahari
Desert in east

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Atlantic Ocean 0 m

highest point:  Konigstein 2,606 m

Natural resources: diamonds, copper, uranium, gold, lead, tin,
lithium, cadmium, zinc, salt, vanadium, natural gas, hydropower, fish

note:  suspected deposits of oil, coal, and iron ore

Land use: arable land:  1%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  46%

forests and woodland:  22%

other:  31% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 60 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: prolonged periods of drought

Environment - current issues: very limited natural fresh water
resources; desertification

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Antarctic-Marine
Living Resources, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification,
Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer
Protection, Wetlands

signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements



Namibia    People

Population: 1,797,677

note:  estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
life expectancy, higher infant mortality and death rates, lower
population and growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  42.74% (male 389,028; female 379,229)

15-64 years:  53.54% (male 480,075; female 482,375)

65 years and over:  3.72% (male 29,109; female 37,861) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 1.38% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 34.71 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 20.9 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.03 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.03 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.77 male(s)/female

total population:  1 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 71.66 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  40.62 years

male:  42.48 years

female:  38.71 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 4.83 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 19.54% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 160,000 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: 18,000 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Namibian(s)

adjective:  Namibian

Ethnic groups: black 87.5%, white 6%, mixed 6.5%

note:  about 50% of the population belong to the Ovambo tribe and 9%
to the Kavangos tribe; other ethnic groups are: Herero 7%, Damara
7%, Nama 5%, Caprivian 4%, Bushmen 3%, Baster 2%, Tswana 0.5%

Religions: Christian 80% to 90% (Lutheran 50% at least), indigenous
beliefs 10% to 20%

Languages: English 7% (official), Afrikaans common language of most
of the population and about 60% of the white population, German 32%,
indigenous languages: Oshivambo, Herero, Nama

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  38%

male:  45%

female:  31% (1960 est.)



Namibia    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Republic of Namibia

conventional short form:  Namibia

former:  German Southwest Africa, South-West Africa

Government type: republic

Capital: Windhoek

Administrative divisions: 13 regions; Caprivi, Erongo, Hardap,
Karas, Khomas, Kunene, Ohangwena, Okavango, Omaheke, Omusati,
Oshana, Oshikoto, Otjozondjupa

Independence: 21 March 1990 (from South African mandate)

National holiday: Independence Day, 21 March (1990)

Constitution: ratified 9 February 1990; effective 12 March 1990

Legal system: based on Roman-Dutch law and 1990 constitution

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Sam Shafishuna NUJOMA
(since 21 March 1990); note - the president is both the chief of
state and head of government

head of government:  President Sam Shafishuna NUJOMA (since 21 March
1990); note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
government

cabinet:  Cabinet appointed by the president from among the members
of the National Assembly

elections:  president elected by popular vote for a five-year term;
election last held 30 November-1 December 1999 (next to be held NA
2004)

election results:  Sam Shafishuna NUJOMA elected president; percent
of vote - Sam Shafishuna NUJOMA 77%

Legislative branch: bicameral legislature consists of the National
Council (26 seats; two members are chosen from each regional council
to serve six-year terms) and the National Assembly (72 seats;
members are elected by popular vote to serve five-year terms)

elections:  National Council - elections for regional councils, to
determine members of the National Council, held 30 November-1
December 1998 (next to be held by December 2004); National Assembly
- last held 30 November-1 December 1999 (next to be held by December
2004)

election results:  National Council - percent of vote by party -
NA%; seats by party - SWAPO 21, DTA 4, UDF 1; National Assembly -
percent of vote by party - SWAPO 76%, COD 10%, DTA 9%, UDF 3%, MAG
1%, other 1%; seats by party - SWAPO 55, COD 7, DTA 7, UDF 2, MAG 1,

note:  the National Council is primarily an advisory body

Judicial branch: Supreme Court (judges appointed by the president on
the recommendation of the Judicial Service Commission)

Political parties and leaders: Congress of Democrats or COD [Ben
ULENGA]; Democratic Turnhalle Alliance of Namibia or DTA [Katuutire
KAURA, president]; Monitor Action Group or MAG [Kosie PRETORIUS];
South West Africa People's Organization or SWAPO [Sam NUJOMA];
United Democratic Front or UDF [Justus GAROEB]

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: AfDB, C, CCC, ECA, FAO,
G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICRM, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO,
Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM (observer), ISO (correspondent), ITU,
NAM, OAU, OPCW, SACU, SADC, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNMEE,
UNTAET, UPU, WCL, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Leonard Nangolo IIPUMBU

chancery:  1605 New Hampshire Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20009

telephone:  [1] (202) 986-0540

FAX:  [1] (202) 986-0443

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Jeffrey A. BADER

embassy:  Ausplan Building, 14 Lossen Street, Private Bag 12029
Ausspannplatz, Windhoek

mailing address:  use embassy street address

telephone:  [264] (61) 221601

FAX:  [264] (61) 229792

Flag description: a large blue triangle with a yellow sunburst fills
the upper left section and an equal green triangle (solid) fills the
lower right section; the triangles are separated by a red stripe
that is contrasted by two narrow white-edge borders



Namibia    Economy

Economy - overview: The economy is heavily dependent on the
extraction and processing of minerals for export. Mining accounts
for 20% of GDP. Namibia is the fourth-largest exporter of nonfuel
minerals in Africa and the world's fifth-largest producer of
uranium. Rich alluvial diamond deposits make Namibia a primary
source for gem-quality diamonds. Namibia also produces large
quantities of lead, zinc, tin, silver, and tungsten. Half of the
population depends on agriculture (largely subsistence agriculture)
for its livelihood. Namibia must import some of its food. Although
per capita GDP is four times the per capita GDP of Africa's poorer
countries, the majority of Namibia's people live in pronounced
poverty because of large-scale unemployment, the great inequality of
income distribution, and the large amount of wealth going to
foreigners. The Namibian economy has close links to South Africa.
GDP growth in 2000 was led by gains in the diamond and fish sectors.
Agreement has been reached on the privatization of several more
enterprises in coming years, which should stimulate long-run foreign
investment. Growth in 2001 could be 5.5% provided the world economy
remains stable.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $7.6 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 4% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $4,300 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  12%

industry:  25%

services:  63% (1999 est.)

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 9.1% (2000)

Labor force: 500,000

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture 47%, industry 20%, services
33% (1999 est.)

Unemployment rate: 30% to 40%, including underemployment (1997 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $883 million

expenditures:  $950 million, including capital expenditures of $NA
(1998)

Industries: meatpacking, fish processing, dairy products; mining
(diamond, lead, zinc, tin, silver, tungsten, uranium, copper)

Industrial production growth rate: NA

Electricity - production: 1.198 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  2%

hydro:  98%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 1.948 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 56 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 890 million kWh

note:  supplied by South Africa (1999)

Agriculture - products: millet, sorghum, peanuts; livestock; fish

Exports: $1.4 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Exports - commodities: diamonds, copper, gold, zinc, lead, uranium;
cattle, processed fish, karakul skins

Exports - partners: UK 43%, South Africa 26%, Spain 14%, France 8%,
Japan (1998 est.)

Imports: $1.6 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Imports - commodities: foodstuffs; petroleum products and fuel,
machinery and equipment, chemicals

Imports - partners: South Africa 81%, US 4%, Germany 2% (1997 est.)

Debt - external: $217 million (2000 est.)

Economic aid - recipient: $127 million (1998)

Currency: Namibian dollar (NAD); South African rand (ZAR)

Currency code: NAD; ZAR

Exchange rates: Namibian dollars per US dollar - 7.78307 (January
2001), 6.93983 (2000), 6.10948 (1999), 5.52828 (1998), 4.60796
(1997), 4.29935 (1996)

Fiscal year: 1 April - 31 March



Namibia    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 100,848 (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: NA

Telephone system: general assessment:  good system; about 6
telephones for each 100 persons

domestic:  good urban services; fair rural service; microwave radio
relay links major towns; connections to other populated places are
by open wire; 100% digital

international:  fiber-optic cable to South Africa, microwave radio
relay link to Botswana, direct links to other neighboring countries;
connected to Africa ONE and South African Far East (SAFE) submarine
cables through South Africa; satellite earth stations - 4 Intelsat

Radio broadcast stations: AM 2, FM 34, shortwave 5 (1998)

Radios: 232,000 (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 8 (plus about 20 low-power repeaters)
(1997)

Televisions: 60,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .na

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 2 (2000)

Internet users: 9,000 (1999)



Namibia    Transportation

Railways: total:  2,382 km

narrow gauge:  2,382 km 1.067-m gauge; single track (1995)

Highways: total:  63,258 km

paved:  5,250 km

unpaved:  58,008 km (1997 est.)

Waterways: none

Ports and harbors: Luderitz, Walvis Bay

Merchant marine: none (2000 est.)

Airports: 131 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  21

over 3,047 m:  2

2,438 to 3,047 m:  2

1,524 to 2,437 m:  13

914 to 1,523 m:  4 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  110

2,438 to 3,047 m:  2

1,524 to 2,437 m:  21

914 to 1,523 m:  69

under 914 m:  18 (2000 est.)



Namibia    Military

Military branches: National Defense Force (Army), Police

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  427,067 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
255,016 (2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $104.4 million (2001)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 2.6% (FY97/98)



Namibia    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

======================================================================

@Nauru




Nauru    Introduction

Background: Nauru's phosphate deposits began to be mined early in
the 20th century by a German-British consortium; the island was
occupied by Australian forces in World War I. Upon achieving
independence in 1968, Nauru became the smallest independent republic
in the world; it joined the UN in 1999.



Nauru    Geography

Location: Oceania, island in the South Pacific Ocean, south of the
Marshall Islands

Geographic coordinates: 0 32 S, 166 55 E

Map references: Oceania

Area: total:  21 sq km

land:  21 sq km

water:  0 sq km

Area - comparative: about 0.1 times the size of Washington, DC

Land boundaries: 0 km

Coastline: 30 km

Maritime claims: contiguous zone:  24 NM

exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: tropical; monsoonal; rainy season (November to February)

Terrain: sandy beach rises to fertile ring around raised coral reefs
with phosphate plateau in center

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Pacific Ocean 0 m

highest point:  unnamed location along plateau rim 61 m

Natural resources: phosphates

Land use: arable land:  0%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  0%

forests and woodland:  0%

other:  100% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: NA sq km

Natural hazards: periodic droughts

Environment - current issues: limited natural fresh water resources,
roof storage tanks collect rainwater, but mostly dependent on a
single, aging desalination plant; intensive phosphate mining during
the past 90 years - mainly by a UK, Australia, and NZ consortium -
has left the central 90% of Nauru a wasteland and threatens limited
remaining land resources

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Desertification, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping

signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Geography - note: Nauru is one of the three great phosphate rock
islands in the Pacific Ocean - the others are Banaba (Ocean Island)
in Kiribati and Makatea in French Polynesia; only 53 km south of
Equator



Nauru    People

Population: 12,088 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  40.33% (male 2,510; female 2,365)

15-64 years:  57.97% (male 3,475; female 3,533)

65 years and over:  1.7% (male 103; female 102) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 2% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 27.22 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 7.2 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.06 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  0.98 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  1.01 male(s)/female

total population:  1.01 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 10.71 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  61.2 years

male:  57.7 years

female:  64.88 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 3.61 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: NA%

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: NA

HIV/AIDS - deaths: NA

Nationality: noun:  Nauruan(s)

adjective:  Nauruan

Ethnic groups: Nauruan 58%, other Pacific Islander 26%, Chinese 8%,
European 8%

Religions: Christian (two-thirds Protestant, one-third Roman
Catholic)

Languages: Nauruan (official, a distinct Pacific Island language),
English widely understood, spoken, and used for most government and
commercial purposes

Literacy: definition:  NA

total population:  NA%

male:  NA%

female:  NA%



Nauru    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Republic of Nauru

conventional short form:  Nauru

former:  Pleasant Island

Government type: republic

Capital: no official capital; government offices in Yaren District

Administrative divisions: 14 districts; Aiwo, Anabar, Anetan,
Anibare, Baiti, Boe, Buada, Denigomodu, Ewa, Ijuw, Meneng, Nibok,
Uaboe, Yaren

Independence: 31 January 1968 (from the Australia-, NZ-, and
UK-administered UN trusteeship)

National holiday: Independence Day, 31 January (1968)

Constitution: 29 January 1968

Legal system: acts of the Nauru Parliament and British common law

Suffrage: 20 years of age; universal and compulsory

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Bernard DOWIYOGO (since
19 April 2000); note - the president is both the chief of state and
head of government

head of government:  President Bernard DOWIYOGO (since 19 April
2000); note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
government

cabinet:  Cabinet appointed by the president from among the members
of Parliament

elections:  president elected by Parliament for a three-year term;
election last held 8 April 2000 (next to be held NA 2003)

election results:  Bernard DOWIYOGO elected president by a vote in
Parliament of nine to eight

note:  former President Rene HARRIS was deposed in a no-confidence
vote; this is the eighth change of government in Nauru since the
fall of the Lagumont HARRIS government in a no-confidence motion in
early November 1996; six of the last eight governments have resulted
because of parliamentary no-confidence motions

Legislative branch: unicameral Parliament (18 seats; members elected
by popular vote to serve three-year terms)

elections:  last held 9 April 2000 (next to be held NA April 2003)

election results:  percent of vote - NA%; seats - independents 18

Judicial branch: Supreme Court

Political parties and leaders: loose multiparty system; Democratic
Party [Kennan ADEANG]; Nauru Party (informal) [Bernard DOWIYOGO]

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: ACP, AsDB, C, ESCAP, ICAO,
Intelsat (nonsignatory user), Interpol, IOC, ITU, OPCW, Sparteca,
SPC, SPF, UN, UNESCO, UPU, WHO

Diplomatic representation in the US: Nauru does not have an embassy
in the US, but does have a UN office at 800 2nd Avenue, Suite 400 D,
New York, New York 10017; telephone: (212) 937-0074

consulate(s):  Hagatna (Guam)

Diplomatic representation from the US: the US does not have an
embassy in Nauru; the US Ambassador to Fiji is accredited to Nauru

Flag description: blue with a narrow, horizontal, yellow stripe
across the center and a large white 12-pointed star below the stripe
on the hoist side; the star indicates the country's location in
relation to the Equator (the yellow stripe) and the 12 points
symbolize the 12 original tribes of Nauru



Nauru    Economy

Economy - overview: Revenues of this tiny island have come from
exports of phosphates, but reserves are expected to be exhausted
within five to ten years. Phosphate production has declined since
1989, as demand has fallen in traditional markets and as the
marginal cost of extracting the remaining phosphate increases,
making it less internationally competitive. While phosphates have
given Nauruans one of the highest per capita incomes in the Third
World, few other resources exist with most necessities being
imported, including fresh water from Australia. The rehabilitation
of mined land and the replacement of income from phosphates are
serious long-term problems. In anticipation of the exhaustion of
Nauru's phosphate deposits, substantial amounts of phosphate income
have been invested in trust funds to help cushion the transition and
provide for Nauru's economic future. The government has been
borrowing heavily from the trusts to finance fiscal deficits. To cut
costs the government has called for a freezing of wages, a reduction
of over-staffed public service departments, privatization of
numerous government agencies, and closure of some overseas
consulates. In recent years Nauru has encouraged the registration of
offshore banks and corporations. Tens of billions of dollars have
been channeled through their accounts. Few comprehensive statistics
on the Nauru economy exist, with estimates of Nauru's per capita GDP
varying widely.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $59 million (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: NA%

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $5,000 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  NA%

industry:  NA%

services:  NA%

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): -3.6% (1993)

Labor force - by occupation: employed in mining phosphates, public
administration, education, and transportation

Unemployment rate: 0%

Budget: revenues:  $23.4 million

expenditures:  $64.8 million, including capital expenditures of $NA
(FY95/96)

Industries: phosphate mining, financial services, coconut products

Industrial production growth rate: NA%

Electricity - production: 30 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  100%

hydro:  0%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 27.9 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: coconuts

Exports: $25.3 million (f.o.b., 1991)

Exports - commodities: phosphates

Exports - partners: Australia, NZ

Imports: $21.1 million (c.i.f., 1991)

Imports - commodities: food, fuel, manufactures, building materials,
machinery

Imports - partners: Australia, UK, NZ, Japan

Debt - external: $33.3 million

Economic aid - recipient: $2.25 million from Australia (FY96/97 est.)

Currency: Australian dollar (AUD)

Currency code: AUD

Exchange rates: Australian dollars per US dollar - 1.7995 (January
2001), 1.7173 (2000), 1.5497 (1999), 1.5888 (1998), 1.3439 (1997),
1.2773 (1996)

Fiscal year: 1 July - 30 June



Nauru    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 2,000 (1996)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 450 (1994)

Telephone system: general assessment:  adequate local and
international radiotelephone communications provided via Australian
facilities

domestic:  NA

international:  satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (Pacific Ocean)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 1, FM 0, shortwave 0 (1998)

Radios: 7,000 (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 1 (1997)

Televisions: 500 (1997)

Internet country code: .nr

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 1 (2000)

Internet users: NA



Nauru    Transportation

Railways: total:  5 km; note - used to haul phosphates from the
center of the island to processing facilities on the southwest coast

Highways: total:  30 km

paved:  24 km

unpaved:  6 km (1998 est.)

Waterways: none

Ports and harbors: Nauru

Merchant marine: none (2000 est.)

Airports: 1 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  1

1,524 to 2,437 m:  1 (2000 est.)



Nauru    Military

Military branches: no regular armed forces; Directorate of the Nauru
Police Force

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  3,018 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
1,661 (2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $NA

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: NA%

Military - note: Nauru maintains no defense forces; under an
informal agreement, defense is the responsibility of Australia



Nauru    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

======================================================================

@Navassa Island




Navassa Island    Introduction

Background: This uninhabited island was claimed by the US in 1857
for its guano, and mining took place between 1865 and 1898. The
lighthouse, built in 1917, was shut down in 1996 and administration
of Navassa Island transferred from the Coast Guard to the Department
of the Interior. A 1998 scientific expedition to the island
described it as a unique preserve of Caribbean biodiversity; the
following year it became a National Wildlife Refuge.



Navassa Island    Geography

Location: Caribbean, island in the Caribbean Sea, about one-fourth
of the way from Haiti to Jamaica

Geographic coordinates: 18 25 N, 75 02 W

Map references: Central America and the Caribbean

Area: total:  5.2 sq km

land:  5.2 sq km

water:  0 sq km

Area - comparative: about nine times the size of The Mall in
Washington, DC

Land boundaries: 0 km

Coastline: 8 km

Maritime claims: exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: marine, tropical

Terrain: raised coral and limestone plateau, flat to undulating;
ringed by vertical white cliffs (9 to 15 m high)

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Caribbean Sea 0 m

highest point:  unnamed location on southwest side 77 m

Natural resources: guano

Land use: arable land:  0%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  10%

forests and woodland:  0%

other:  90%

Irrigated land: 0 sq km (1998)

Natural hazards: NA

Environment - current issues: NA

Geography - note: strategic location 160 km south of the US Naval
Base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba; mostly exposed rock, but enough
grassland to support goat herds; dense stands of fig-like trees,
scattered cactus



Navassa Island    People

Population: uninhabited

note:  transient Haitian fishermen and others camp on the island
(July 2001 est.)



Navassa Island    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  none

conventional short form:  Navassa Island

Dependency status: unincorporated territory of the US; administered
from Washington, DC, by the Fish and Wildlife Service, US Department
of the Interior; in September 1996, the Coast Guard ceased
operations and maintenance of Navassa Island Light, a 46-meter-tall
lighthouse located on the southern side of the island; there has
also been a private claim advanced against the island

Legal system: the laws of the US, where applicable, apply

Flag description: the flag of the US is used



Navassa Island    Economy

Economy - overview: no economic activity



Navassa Island    Transportation

Waterways: none

Ports and harbors: none; offshore anchorage only



Navassa Island    Military

Military - note: defense is the responsibility of the US



Navassa Island    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: claimed by Haiti

======================================================================

@Nepal




Nepal    Introduction

Background: In 1951, the Nepalese monarch ended the century-old
system of rule by hereditary premiers and instituted a cabinet
system of government. Reforms in 1990 established a multiparty
democracy within the framework of a constitutional monarchy. The
refugee issue of some 100,000 Bhutanese in Nepal remains unresolved;
90% of these displaced persons are housed in seven United Nations
Offices of the High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) camps.



Nepal    Geography

Location: Southern Asia, between China and India

Geographic coordinates: 28 00 N, 84 00 E

Map references: Asia

Area: total:  140,800 sq km

land:  136,800 sq km

water:  4,000 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly larger than Arkansas

Land boundaries: total:  2,926 km

border countries:  China 1,236 km, India 1,690 km

Coastline: 0 km (landlocked)

Maritime claims: none (landlocked)

Climate: varies from cool summers and severe winters in north to
subtropical summers and mild winters in south

Terrain: Terai or flat river plain of the Ganges in south, central
hill region, rugged Himalayas in north

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Kanchan Kalan 70 m

highest point:  Mount Everest 8,850 m (1999 est.)

Natural resources: quartz, water, timber, hydropower, scenic beauty,
small deposits of lignite, copper, cobalt, iron ore

Land use: arable land:  17%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  15%

forests and woodland:  42%

other:  26% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 8,500 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: severe thunderstorms, flooding, landslides,
drought, and famine depending on the timing, intensity, and duration
of the summer monsoons

Environment - current issues: deforestation (overuse of wood for
fuel and lack of alternatives); contaminated water (with human and
animal wastes, agricultural runoff, and industrial effluents);
wildlife conservation; vehicular emissions

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous
Wastes, Law of the Sea, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection,
Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands

signed, but not ratified:  Marine Dumping, Marine Life Conservation

Geography - note: landlocked; strategic location between China and
India; contains eight of world's 10 highest peaks



Nepal    People

Population: 25,284,463 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  40.35% (male 5,267,234; female 4,933,910)

15-64 years:  56.16% (male 7,264,575; female 6,934,384)

65 years and over:  3.49% (male 437,813; female 446,547) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 2.32% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 33.4 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 10.22 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.07 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.98 male(s)/female

total population:  1.05 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 74.14 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  58.22 years

male:  58.65 years

female:  57.77 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 4.58 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 0.29% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 34,000 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: 2,500 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Nepalese (singular and plural)

adjective:  Nepalese

Ethnic groups: Brahman, Chetri, Newar, Gurung, Magar, Tamang, Rai,
Limbu, Sherpa, Tharu, and others (1995)

Religions: Hinduism 86.2%, Buddhism 7.8%, Islam 3.8%, other 2.2%

note:  only official Hindu state in the world (1995)

Languages: Nepali (official; spoken by 90% of the population), about
a dozen other languages and about 30 major dialects; note - many in
government and business also speak English (1995)

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  27.5%

male:  40.9%

female:  14% (1995 est.)



Nepal    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Kingdom of Nepal

conventional short form:  Nepal

Government type: parliamentary democracy and constitutional monarchy

Capital: Kathmandu

Administrative divisions: 14 zones (anchal, singular and plural);
Bagmati, Bheri, Dhawalagiri, Gandaki, Janakpur, Karnali, Kosi,
Lumbini, Mahakali, Mechi, Narayani, Rapti, Sagarmatha, Seti

Independence: 1768 (unified by Prithvi Narayan Shah)

National holiday: Birthday of King GYANENDRA, 7 July (1946)

Constitution: 9 November 1990

Legal system: based on Hindu legal concepts and English common law;
has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  King GYANENDRA Bir Bikram Shah
(succeeded to the throne 4 June 2001 following the death of his
nephew King DIPENDRA Bir Bikram Shah)

head of government:  Prime Minister Girija Prasad KOIRALA (since 22
March 2000)

cabinet:  Cabinet appointed by the monarch on the recommendation of
the prime minister

elections:  none; the monarch is hereditary; following legislative
elections, the leader of the majority party or leader of a majority
coalition is usually appointed prime minister by the monarch

note:  King BIRENDRA Bir Bikram Shah Dev died in a bloody shooting
at the royal palace on 1 June 2001 that also claimed the lives of
most of the royal family; King BIRENDRA's son, Crown Price DIPENDRA,
is believed to have been responsible for the shootings before
fatally wounding himself; immediately following the shootings and
while still clinging to life, DIPENDRA was crowned king; he died
three days later and was succeeded by his uncle

Legislative branch: bicameral Parliament consists of the National
Council (60 seats; 35 appointed by the House of Representatives, 10
by the king, and 15 elected by an electoral college; one-third of
the members elected every two years to serve six-year terms) and the
House of Representatives (205 seats; members elected by popular vote
to serve five-year terms)

elections:  House of Representatives - last held 3 and 17 May 1999
(next to be held NA May 2004)

election results:  House of Representatives - percent of vote by
party - NC 37.3%, CPN/UML 31.6%, NDP 10.4%, NSP 3.2%, Rastriya Jana
Morcha 1.4%, Samyukta Janmorcha Nepal 0.8%, NWPP 0.5%, others 14.8%;
seats by party - NC 113, CPN/UML 69, NDP 11, NSP 5, Rastriya Jana
Morcha 5, Samyukta Janmorcha Nepal 1, NWPP 1

Judicial branch: Supreme Court or Sarbochha Adalat (chief justice is
appointed by the monarch on recommendation of the Constitutional
Council; the other judges are appointed by the monarch on the
recommendation of the Judicial Council)

Political parties and leaders: Communist Party of Nepal/United
Marxist-Leninist or CPN/UML [Madhav Kumar NEPAL, general secretary];
National Democratic Party or NDP (also called Rastriya Prajantra
Party or RPP) [Surya Bahadur THAPA, chairman]; Nepal Sadbhavana
(Goodwill) Party or NSP [Gajendra Narayan SINGH, president]; Nepal
Workers and Peasants Party or NWPP [Narayan Man BIJUKCHHE, party
chair]; Nepali Congress or NC [Girija Prasad KOIRALA, party
president, Sushil KOIRALA, general secretary]; Rastriya Jana Morcha
[Chitra Bahadur K. C., chairman]; Samyukta Janmorcha Nepal [Lila
Mani POKHAREL, general secretary]

Political pressure groups and leaders: Maoist guerrilla-based
insurgency; numerous small, left-leaning student groups in the
capital; several small, radical Nepalese antimonarchist groups

International organization participation: AsDB, CCC, CP, ESCAP, FAO,
G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO,
Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, ISO (correspondent), ITU, MONUC, NAM, OPCW,
SAARC, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNFICYP, UNIDO, UNIFIL, UNMEE, UNMIBH,
UNMIK, UNMOP, UNMOT, UNTAET, UPU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO
(observer)

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Damodar Prasad GAUTAM

chancery:  2131 Leroy Place NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone:  [1] (202) 667-4550

FAX:  [1] (202) 667-5534

consulate(s) general:  New York

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Ralph FRANK

embassy:  Pani Pokhari, Kathmandu

mailing address:  use embassy street address

telephone:  [977] (1) 411179, 410531

FAX:  [977] (1) 419963

Flag description: red with a blue border around the unique shape of
two overlapping right triangles; the smaller, upper triangle bears a
white stylized moon and the larger, lower triangle bears a white
12-pointed sun



Nepal    Economy

Economy - overview: Nepal is among the poorest and least developed
countries in the world with nearly half of its population living
below the poverty line. Agriculture is the mainstay of the economy,
providing a livelihood for over 80% of the population and accounting
for 41% of GDP. Industrial activity mainly involves the processing
of agricultural produce including jute, sugarcane, tobacco, and
grain. Production of textiles and carpets has expanded recently and
accounted for about 80% of foreign exchange earnings in the past
three years. Agricultural production is growing by about 5% on
average as compared with annual population growth of 2.3%. Since May
1991, the government has been moving forward with economic reforms,
particularly those that encourage trade and foreign investment,
e.g., by reducing business licenses and registration requirements in
order to simplify investment procedures. The government has also
been cutting expenditures by reducing subsidies, privatizing state
industries, and laying off civil servants. More recently, however,
political instability - five different governments over the past few
years - has hampered Kathmandu's ability to forge consensus to
implement key economic reforms. Nepal has considerable scope for
accelerating economic growth by exploiting its potential in
hydropower and tourism, areas of recent foreign investment interest.
Prospects for foreign trade or investment in other sectors will
remain poor, however, because of the small size of the economy, its
technological backwardness, its remoteness, its landlocked
geographic location, and its susceptibility to natural disaster. The
international community's role of funding more than 60% of Nepal's
development budget and more than 28% of total budgetary expenditures
will likely continue as a major ingredient of growth.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $33.7 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 3.7% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $1,360 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  41%

industry:  22%

services:  37% (2000 est.)

Population below poverty line: 42% (FY95/96 est.)

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:
3.2%

highest 10%:  29.8% (1995-96)

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 3.3% (FY99/00 est.)

Labor force: 10 million (1996 est.)

note:  severe lack of skilled labor

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture 81%, services 16%, industry
3%

Unemployment rate: NA%; substantial underemployment (1999)

Budget: revenues:  $536 million

expenditures:  $818 million, including capital expenditures of $NA
(FY96/97 est.)

Industries: tourism, carpet, textile; small rice, jute, sugar, and
oilseed mills; cigarette; cement and brick production

Industrial production growth rate: NA%

Electricity - production: 1.255 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  9.56%

hydro:  90.44%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 1.309 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 68 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 210 million kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: rice, corn, wheat, sugarcane, root crops;
milk, water buffalo meat

Exports: $485 million (f.o.b., 1998), but does not include
unrecorded border trade with India

Exports - commodities: carpets, clothing, leather goods, jute goods,
grain

Exports - partners: India 33%, US 26%, Germany 25% (FY97/98)

Imports: $1.2 billion (f.o.b., 1998)

Imports - commodities: gold, machinery and equipment, petroleum
products, fertilizer

Imports - partners: India 31%, China/Hong Kong 16%, Singapore 14%
(FY97/98)

Debt - external: $2.4 billion (1997)

Economic aid - recipient: $411 million (FY97/98)

Currency: Nepalese rupee (NPR)

Currency code: NPR

Exchange rates: Nepalese rupees per US dollar - 74.129 (January
2001), 71.104 (2000), 68.239 (1999), 65.976 (1998), 58.010 (1997),
56.692 (1996)

Fiscal year: 16 July - 15 July



Nepal    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 236,816 (January 2000)

Telephones - mobile cellular: NA

Telephone system: general assessment:  poor telephone and telegraph
service; fair radiotelephone communication service and mobile
cellular telephone network

domestic:  NA

international:  radiotelephone communications; microwave landline to
India; satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (Indian Ocean)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 6, FM 5, shortwave 1 (January 2000)

Radios: 840,000 (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 1 (plus 9 repeaters) (1998)

Televisions: 130,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .np

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 6 (2000)

Internet users: 35,000 (2000)



Nepal    Transportation

Railways: total:  59 km; note - all in Kosi close to Indian border

narrow gauge:  59 km 0.762-m gauge (2000)

Highways: total:  13,223 km

paved:  4,073 km

unpaved:  9,150 km (April 1999)

Waterways: none

Ports and harbors: none

Airports: 45 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  8

over 3,047 m:  1

1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

914 to 1,523 m:  6 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  37

1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

914 to 1,523 m:  7

under 914 m:  29 (2000 est.)



Nepal    Military

Military branches: Royal Nepalese Army (includes Royal Nepalese Army
Air Service), Nepalese Police Force

Military manpower - military age: 17 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  6,295,990 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
3,272,077 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  292,589
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $44 million (FY96/97)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 0.9% (FY96/97)



Nepal    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: refugee issue over the presence in Nepal
of approximately 98,700 Bhutanese refugees, 90% of whom are in seven
United Nations Office of the High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR)
camps

Illicit drugs: illicit producer of cannabis for the domestic and
international drug markets; transit point for opiates from Southeast
Asia to the West

======================================================================

@Netherlands




Netherlands    Introduction

Background: The Kingdom of the Netherlands was formed in 1815. In
1830 Belgium seceded and formed a separate kingdom. The Netherlands
remained neutral in World War I but suffered a brutal invasion and
occupation by Germany in World War II. A modern, industrialized
nation, the Netherlands is also a large exporter of agricultural
products. The country was a founding member of NATO and the EC, and
participated in the introduction of the euro in 1999.



Netherlands    Geography

Location: Western Europe, bordering the North Sea, between Belgium
and Germany

Geographic coordinates: 52 30 N, 5 45 E

Map references: Europe

Area: total:  41,526 sq km

land:  33,883 sq km

water:  7,643 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly less than twice the size of New Jersey

Land boundaries: total:  1,027 km

border countries:  Belgium 450 km, Germany 577 km

Coastline: 451 km

Maritime claims: exclusive fishing zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: temperate; marine; cool summers and mild winters

Terrain: mostly coastal lowland and reclaimed land (polders); some
hills in southeast

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Prins Alexanderpolder -7 m

highest point:  Vaalserberg 321 m

Natural resources: natural gas, petroleum, arable land

Land use: arable land:  25%

permanent crops:  3%

permanent pastures:  25%

forests and woodland:  8%

other:  39% (1996 est.)

Irrigated land: 6,000 sq km (1996 est.)

Natural hazards: flooding

Environment - current issues: water pollution in the form of heavy
metals, organic compounds, and nutrients such as nitrates and
phosphates; air pollution from vehicles and refining activities;
acid rain

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Air Pollution,
Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air Pollution-Persistent Organic
Pollutants, Air Pollution-Sulphur 85, Air Pollution-Sulphur 94, Air
Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds, Antarctic-Environmental
Protocol, Antarctic-Marine Living Resources, Antarctic Treaty,
Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species,
Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine
Dumping, Marine Life Conservation, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer
Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94,
Wetlands, Whaling

signed, but not ratified:  Biodiversity, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol

Geography - note: located at mouths of three major European rivers
(Rhine, Maas or Meuse, and Schelde)



Netherlands    People

Population: 15,981,472 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  18.38% (male 1,501,925; female 1,436,017)

15-64 years:  67.9% (male 5,518,575; female 5,333,442)

65 years and over:  13.72% (male 899,052; female 1,292,461) (2001
est.)

Population growth rate: 0.55% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 11.85 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 8.69 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 2.34 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.04 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1.03 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.7 male(s)/female

total population:  0.98 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 4.37 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  78.43 years

male:  75.55 years

female:  81.44 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 1.65 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 0.19% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 15,000 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: 100 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Dutchman(men), Dutchwoman(women)

adjective:  Dutch

Ethnic groups: Dutch 91%, Moroccans, Turks, and other 9% (1999 est.)

Religions: Roman Catholic 31%, Protestant 21%, Muslim 4.4%, other
3.6%, unaffiliated 40% (1998)

Languages: Dutch

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  99% (2000 est.)

male:  NA%

female:  NA%



Netherlands    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Kingdom of the Netherlands

conventional short form:  Netherlands

local long form:  Koninkrijk der Nederlanden

local short form:  Nederland

Government type: constitutional monarchy

Capital: Amsterdam; The Hague is the seat of government

Administrative divisions: 12 provinces (provincien, singular -
provincie); Drenthe, Flevoland, Friesland, Gelderland, Groningen,
Limburg, Noord-Brabant, Noord-Holland, Overijssel, Utrecht, Zeeland,
Zuid-Holland

Dependent areas: Aruba, Netherlands Antilles

Independence: 1579 (from Spain)

National holiday: Queen's Day (Birthday of Queen-Mother JULIANA in
1909 and accession to the throne of her oldest daughter BEATRIX in
1980), 30 April

Constitution: adopted 1814; amended many times, last time 17
February 1983

Legal system: civil law system incorporating French penal theory;
constitution does not permit judicial review of acts of the States
General; accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction, with reservations

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  Queen BEATRIX (since 30 April
1980); Heir Apparent WILLEM-ALEXANDER (born 27 April 1967), son of
the monarch

head of government:  Prime Minister Wim KOK (since 22 August 1994)
and Vice Prime Ministers Annemarie JORRITSMA (since 3 August 1998)
and Els BORST-EILERS (since 3 August 1998)

cabinet:  Council of Ministers appointed by the monarch

elections:  none; the monarch is hereditary; following Second
Chamber elections, the leader of the majority party or leader of a
majority coalition is usually appointed prime minister by the
monarch; vice prime ministers appointed by the monarch

note:  government coalition - PvdA, VVD, and D'66; there is also a
Council of State composed of the monarch, heir apparent, and
councilors consulted by the executive on legislative and
administrative policy

Legislative branch: bicameral States General or Staten Generaal
consists of the First Chamber or Eerste Kamer (75 seats; members
indirectly elected by the country's 12 provincial councils for
four-year terms) and the Second Chamber or Tweede Kamer (150 seats;
members directly elected by popular vote to serve four-year terms)

elections:  First Chamber - last held 25 May 1999 (next to be held
NA May 2003); Second Chamber - last held 6 May 1998 (next to be held
May 2002)

election results:  First Chamber - percent of vote by party - NA%;
seats by party - CDA 20, VVD 19, PvdA 15, D'66 4, other 17; Second
Chamber - percent of vote by party - PvdA 30.0%, VVD 25.3%, CDA
19.3%, D'66 9.3%, other 16.1%; seats by party - PvdA 45, VVD 38, CDA
29, D'66 14, other 24

Judicial branch: Supreme Court or Hoge Raad (justices are nominated
for life by the monarch)

Political parties and leaders: Christian Democratic Appeal or CDA
[Jaap de Hoop SCHEFFER]; Democrats '66 or D'66 [Tom DE GRAAF]; Labor
Party or PvdA [Wim KOK]; People's Party for Freedom and Democracy
(Liberal) or VVD [Hans F. DIJKSTAL]; a host of minor parties

Political pressure groups and leaders: Federation of Netherlands
Trade Union Movement (comprising Socialist and Catholic trade
unions) and a Protestant trade union; Federation of Catholic and
Protestant Employers Associations; Interchurch Peace Council or IKV;
large multinational firms; the nondenominational Federation of
Netherlands Enterprises

International organization participation: AfDB, AsDB, Australia
Group, Benelux, BIS, CCC, CE, CERN, EAPC, EBRD, ECE, ECLAC, EIB,
EMU, ESA, ESCAP, EU, FAO, G-10, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU,
ICRM, IDA, IEA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat,
Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO, ITU, NAM (guest), NATO, NEA, NSG,
OAS (observer), OECD, OPCW, OSCE, PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNFICYP,
UNHCR, UNIDO, UNITAR, UNMEE, UNMIBH, UNMIK, UNTSO, UNU, UPU, WCL,
WEU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO, ZC

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Joris M. VOS

chancery:  4200 Linnean Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone:  [1] (202) 244-5300

FAX:  [1] (202) 362-3430

consulate(s) general:  Chicago, Houston, Los Angeles, New York

consulate(s):  Boston

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Cynthia P. SCHNEIDER

embassy:  Lange Voorhout 102, 2514 EJ, The Hague

mailing address:  PSC 71, Box 1000, APO AE 09715

telephone:  [31] (70) 310-9209

FAX:  [31] (70) 361-4688

consulate(s) general:  Amsterdam

Flag description: three equal horizontal bands of red (top), white,
and blue; similar to the flag of Luxembourg, which uses a lighter
blue and is longer



Netherlands    Economy

Economy - overview: The Netherlands is a prosperous and open economy
depending heavily on foreign trade. The economy is noted for stable
industrial relations, moderate inflation, a sizable current account
surplus, and an important role as a European transportation hub.
Industrial activity is predominantly in food processing, chemicals,
petroleum refining, and electrical machinery. A highly mechanized
agricultural sector employs no more than 4% of the labor force but
provides large surpluses for the food-processing industry and for
exports. The Dutch rank third worldwide in value of agricultural
exports, behind the US and France. The Dutch economy has expanded by
3% or more in each of the last four years and real GDP growth is
likely to be about 3.6% in 2001. The government in 2001 will
implement its most comprehensive tax reform since World War II,
designed to reduce high income tax levels and redirect the fiscal
burden onto consumption. The Dutch were among the first 11 EU
countries establishing the euro currency zone on 1 January 1999.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $388.4 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 4% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $24,400 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  3.3%

industry:  26.3%

services:  70.4% (2000 est.)

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:
2.8%

highest 10%:  25.1% (1994)

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 2.6% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 7.2 million (2000)

Labor force - by occupation: services 73%, industry 23%, agriculture
4% (1998 est.)

Unemployment rate: 2.6% (2000 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $134 billion

expenditures:  $134 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
(2001 est.)

Industries: agroindustries, metal and engineering products,
electrical machinery and equipment, chemicals, petroleum,
construction, microelectronics, fishing

Industrial production growth rate: 3.2% (2000)

Electricity - production: 85.294 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  90.25%

hydro:  0.11%

nuclear:  4.27%

other:  5.37% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 97.76 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 3.97 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 22.407 billion kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: grains, potatoes, sugar beets, fruits,
vegetables; livestock

Exports: $210.3 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Exports - commodities: machinery and equipment, chemicals, fuels;
foodstuffs

Exports - partners: EU 78% (Germany 26%, Belgium-Luxembourg 12%,
France 12%, UK 11%, Italy 6%), Central and Eastern Europe, US (2000)

Imports: $201.2 billion (c.i.f., 2000 est.)

Imports - commodities: machinery and transport equipment, chemicals,
fuels; foodstuffs, clothing

Imports - partners: EU 56% (Germany 18%, Belgium-Luxembourg 10%, UK
5%, France 6%), US 9%, Central and Eastern Europe (2000)

Debt - external: $0

Economic aid - donor: ODA, $3.5 billion (2000 est.)

Currency: Netherlands guilder (NLG); euro (EUR)

note:  on 1 January 1999, the EU introduced the euro as a common
currency that is now being used by financial institutions in the
Netherlands at a fixed rate of 2.20371 Netherlands guilders per euro
and will replace the local currency for all transactions in 2002

Currency code: NLG; EUR

Exchange rates: euros per US dollar - 1.0659 (January 2001), 1.0854
(2000), 0.9386 (1999); Netherlands guilders per US dollar - 1.9837
(1998), 1.9513 (1997), 1.6859 (1996)

Fiscal year: calendar year



Netherlands    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 9,132,400 (1999)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 4,081,891 (April 1999)

Telephone system: general assessment:  highly developed and well
maintained

domestic:  the existing system of multi-conductor cables is
gradually being replaced by fiber-optic cables; the density of
cellular telephone traffic is rapidly increasing and further
modernization of the system is expected in the year 2001, with the
introduction of the third generation of the Global System for Mobile
Communications (GSM)

international:  5 submarine cables; satellite earth stations - 3
Intelsat (1 Indian Ocean and 2 Atlantic Ocean), 1 Eutelsat, and 1
Inmarsat (Atlantic and Indian Ocean regions) (1996)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 4, FM 58, shortwave 3 (1998)

Radios: 15.3 million (1996)

Television broadcast stations: 21 (plus 26 repeaters) (1995)

Televisions: 8.1 million (1997)

Internet country code: .nl

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 52 (2000)

Internet users: 6.8 million (2000)



Netherlands    Transportation

Railways: total:  2,739 km

standard gauge:  2,739 km 1.435-m gauge; (1,991 km electrified)
(1998)

Highways: total:  125,575 km

paved:  113,018 km (including 2,235 km of expressways)

unpaved:  12,557 km (1998)

Waterways: 5,046 km

note:  47% of total route length is usable by craft of 1,000 metric
ton capacity or larger

Pipelines: crude oil 418 km; petroleum products 965 km; natural gas
10,230 km

Ports and harbors: Amsterdam, Delfzijl, Dordrecht, Eemshaven,
Groningen, Haarlem, Ijmuiden, Maastricht, Rotterdam, Terneuzen,
Utrecht, Vlissingen

Merchant marine: total:  596 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
4,321,500 GRT/4,877,632 DWT

ships by type:  bulk 3, cargo 371, chemical tanker 43, container 59,
liquefied gas 21, livestock carrier 1, multi-functional large-load
carrier 9, passenger 8, petroleum tanker 26, refrigerated cargo 29,
roll on/roll off 18, short-sea passenger 3, specialized tanker 5
(2000 est.)

Airports: 28 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  19

over 3,047 m:  2

2,438 to 3,047 m:  7

1,524 to 2,437 m:  6

914 to 1,523 m:  3

under 914 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  9

914 to 1,523 m:  3

under 914 m:  6 (2000 est.)

Heliports: 1 (2000 est.)



Netherlands    Military

Military branches: Royal Netherlands Army, Royal Netherlands Navy
(includes Naval Air Service and Marine Corps), Royal Netherlands Air
Force, Royal Constabulary

Military manpower - military age: 20 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  4,083,349 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
3,555,501 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  96,082
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $6.5 billion (FY00/01 est.)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 1.5% (FY00/01 est.)



Netherlands    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

Illicit drugs: major European producer of illicit amphetamine and
other synthetic drugs; important gateway for cocaine, heroin, and
hashish entering Europe; major source of US-bound ecstasy

======================================================================

@Netherlands Antilles





Netherlands Antilles    Introduction

Background: Once the center of the Caribbean slave trade, the island
of Curacao was hard hit by the abolition of slavery in 1863. Its
prosperity (and that of neighboring Aruba) was restored in the early
20th century with the construction of oil refineries to service the
newly discovered Venezuelan oil fields. The island of Sint Maarten
is shared with France; its northern portion is named Saint Martin
and is part of Guadeloupe.



Netherlands Antilles    Geography

Location: Caribbean, two island groups in the Caribbean Sea - one
includes Curacao and Bonaire north of Venezuela; the other is east
of the Virgin Islands

Geographic coordinates: 12 15 N, 68 45 W

Map references: Central America and the Caribbean

Area: total:  960 sq km

land:  960 sq km

water:  0 sq km

note:  includes Bonaire, Curacao, Saba, Sint Eustatius, and Sint
Maarten (Dutch part of the island of Saint Martin)

Area - comparative: more than five times the size of Washington, DC

Land boundaries: total:  10.2 km

border countries:  Guadeloupe (Saint Martin) 10.2 km

Coastline: 364 km

Maritime claims: exclusive fishing zone:  12 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: tropical; ameliorated by northeast trade winds

Terrain: generally hilly, volcanic interiors

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Caribbean Sea 0 m

highest point:  Mount Scenery 862 m

Natural resources: phosphates (Curacao only), salt (Bonaire only)

Land use: arable land:  10%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  0%

forests and woodland:  0%

other:  90% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: NA sq km

Natural hazards: Curacao and Bonaire are south of Caribbean
hurricane belt and are rarely threatened; Sint Maarten, Saba, and
Sint Eustatius are subject to hurricanes from July to October

Environment - current issues: NA



Netherlands Antilles    People

Population: 212,226 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  25.21% (male 27,332; female 26,169)

15-64 years:  66.99% (male 67,562; female 74,599)

65 years and over:  7.8% (male 6,874; female 9,690) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 0.97% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 16.55 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 6.41 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: -0.42 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  0.91 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.71 male(s)/female

total population:  0.92 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 11.4 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  74.94 years

male:  72.76 years

female:  77.22 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 2.07 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: NA%

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: NA

HIV/AIDS - deaths: NA

Nationality: noun:  Dutch Antillean(s)

adjective:  Dutch Antillean

Ethnic groups: mixed black 85%, Carib Amerindian, white, East Asian

Religions: Roman Catholic, Protestant, Jewish, Seventh-Day Adventist

Languages: Dutch (official), Papiamento (a
Spanish-Portuguese-Dutch-English dialect) predominates, English
widely spoken, Spanish

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  98%

male:  98%

female:  99% (1981 est.)



Netherlands Antilles    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  none

conventional short form:  Netherlands Antilles

local long form:  none

local short form:  Nederlandse Antillen

former:  Curacao and Dependencies

Dependency status: part of the Kingdom of the Netherlands; full
autonomy in internal affairs granted in 1954; Dutch Government
responsible for defense and foreign affairs

Government type: parliamentary

Capital: Willemstad

Administrative divisions: none (part of the Kingdom of the
Netherlands)

note:  each island has its own government

Independence: none (part of the Kingdom of the Netherlands)

National holiday: Queen's Day (Birthday of Queen-Mother JULIANA in
1909 and accession to the throne of her oldest daughter BEATRIX in
1980), 30 April

Constitution: 29 December 1954, Statute of the Realm of the
Netherlands, as amended

Legal system: based on Dutch civil law system, with some English
common law influence

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  Queen BEATRIX of the Netherlands
(since 30 April 1980), represented by Governor General Jaime SALEH
(since NA October 1989)

head of government:  Prime Minister Miguel POURIER (since 8 November
1999); Deputy Prime Minister Susanne CAMELIA-ROMER (since NA)

note:  Miguel POURIER assumed prime ministership following the
resignation of Susanne CAMELIA-ROMER

cabinet:  Council of Ministers elected by the Staten

elections:  the monarch is hereditary; governor general appointed by
the monarch for a six-year term; following legislative elections,
the leader of the majority party is usually elected prime minister
by the Staten; election last held 30 January 1998 (next to be held
by NA 2002)

note:  government coalition - PDB, DP-St. M, FOL, PLKP, PNP

Legislative branch: unicameral States or Staten (22 seats; members
are elected by popular vote to serve four-year terms)

elections:  last held 30 January 1998 (next to be held by NA 2002)

election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
PAR 4, PNP 3, SPA 1, PDB 2, UPB 1, MAN 2, PLKP 3, WIPM 1, SEA 1,
DP-St. M 2, FOL 2; no party won enough seats to form a government

note:  the government of Prime Minister Miguel POURIER is a
coalition of several parties; current seats by party - PAR 4, PNP 3,
FOL 2, MAN 2, UPB 2, DP-St. M 2, PDB 1, SEA 1, WIPM 1, other 4

Judicial branch: Joint High Court of Justice (judges appointed by
the monarch)

Political parties and leaders: Antillean Restructuring Party or PAR
[Miguel POURIER]; C 93 [Stanley BROWN]; Democratic Party of Bonaire
or PDB [Jopi ABRAHAM]; Democratic Party of Curacao or DP [Errol
HERNANDEZ]; Democratic Party of Sint Eustatius or DP-St. E [Julian
WOODLEY]; Democratic Party of Sint Maarten or DP-St. M [Sarah
WESCOTT-WILLIAMS]; Foundation Energetic Management Anti-Narcotics or
FAME [Eric LODEWIJKS]; Labor Party People's Crusade or PLKP [Errol
COVA]; National People's Party or PNP [Susanne F. C. CAMELIA-ROMER];
New Antilles Movement or MAN [Kenneth GIJSBERTHA]; Patriotic Union
of Bonaire or UPB [Ramon BOOI]; Patriotic Movement of Sint Maarten
or SPA [Vance JAMES, Jr.]; People's Party or PAPU [Richard Hodi];
Pro Curacao Party or PPK [Winston LOURENS]; Saba Democratic Labor
Movement [Steve HASSELL]; Saba Unity Party [Carmen SIMMONDS]; St.
Eustatius Alliance or SEA [Kenneth VAN PUTTEN]; Serious Alternative
People's Party or Sapp [Julian ROLLOCKS]; Social Action Cause or KAS
[Benny DEMEI]; Windward Islands People's Movement or WIPM [Will
JOHNSTON]; Workers' Liberation Front or FOL [Anthony GODETT, Rignald
LAK, Editha WRIGHT]

note:  political parties are indigenous to each island

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: Caricom (observer), ECLAC
(associate), Interpol, IOC, UNESCO (associate), UPU, WCL, WMO, WToO
(associate)

Diplomatic representation in the US: none (represented by the
Kingdom of the Netherlands)

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Consul
General Barbara J. STEPHENSON

consulate(s) general:  J. B. Gorsiraweg #1, Willemstad AN, Curacao

mailing address:  P. O. Box 158, Willemstad, Curacao

telephone:  [599] (9) 4613066

FAX:  [599] (9) 4616489

Flag description: white, with a horizontal blue stripe in the center
superimposed on a vertical red band, also centered; five white,
five-pointed stars are arranged in an oval pattern in the center of
the blue band; the five stars represent the five main islands of
Bonaire, Curacao, Saba, Sint Eustatius, and Sint Maarten



Netherlands Antilles    Economy

Economy - overview: Tourism, petroleum refining, and offshore
finance are the mainstays of this small economy, which is closely
tied to the outside world. Although GDP has declined slightly in
each of the past five years, the islands enjoy a high per capita
income and a well-developed infrastructure as compared with other
countries in the region. Almost all consumer and capital goods are
imported, with Venezuela, the US, and Mexico being the major
suppliers. Poor soils and inadequate water supplies hamper the
development of agriculture.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $2.4 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: -3.5% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $11,400 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  1%

industry:  15%

services:  84% (1996 est.)

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 6.4% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 89,000

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture 1%, industry 13%, services
86% (1994 est.)

Unemployment rate: 14.9% (1998 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $710.8 million

expenditures:  $741.6 million, including capital expenditures of $NA
(1997 est.)

Industries: tourism (Curacao, Sint Maarten, and Bonaire), petroleum
refining (Curacao), petroleum transshipment facilities (Curacao and
Bonaire), light manufacturing (Curacao)

Industrial production growth rate: NA%

Electricity - production: 1.11 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  100%

hydro:  0%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 1.032 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: aloes, sorghum, peanuts, vegetables,
tropical fruit

Exports: $276 million (f.o.b., 2000)

Exports - commodities: petroleum products

Exports - partners: US 17.5%, Guatemala 8%, Costa Rica 6.5%, The
Bahamas 4.6%, Jamaica 4.1%, Chile 3.4% (1998)

Imports: $1.5 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Imports - commodities: crude petroleum, food, manufactures

Imports - partners: Venezuela 35.3%, US 21%, Mexico 9.8%, Italy
5.4%, Netherlands 4.8%, Brazil 3.1% (1998)

Debt - external: $1.35 billion (1996)

Economic aid - recipient: IMF provided $61 million in 2000, and the
Netherlands continued its support with $40 million

Currency: Netherlands Antillean guilder (ANG)

Currency code: ANG

Exchange rates: Netherlands Antillean guilders per US dollar - 1.790
(fixed rate since 1989)

Fiscal year: calendar year



Netherlands Antilles    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 76,000 (1995)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 13,977 (1996)

Telephone system: general assessment:  generally adequate facilities

domestic:  extensive interisland microwave radio relay links

international:  submarine cables - 2; satellite earth stations - 2
Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 9, FM 4, shortwave 0 (1998)

Radios: 217,000 (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 3 (there is also a cable service
which supplies programs received from various US satellite networks
and two Venezuelan channels) (1997)

Televisions: 69,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .an

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 6

Internet users: 2,000 (2000)



Netherlands Antilles    Transportation

Railways: 0 km

Highways: total:  600 km

paved:  300 km

unpaved:  300 km (1992)

Waterways: none

Ports and harbors: Kralendijk, Philipsburg, Willemstad

Merchant marine: total:  123 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
1,113,774 GRT/1,397,841 DWT

ships by type:  bulk 1, cargo 35, chemical tanker 2, combination
ore/oil 3, container 19, liquefied gas 4, multi-functional
large-load carrier 19, passenger 1, petroleum tanker 4, refrigerated
cargo 28, roll on/roll off 7

note:  includes some foreign-owned ships registered here as a flag
of convenience: Belgium 8, Germany 1, Italy 1 (2000 est.)

Airports: 5 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  5

over 3,047 m:  1

1,524 to 2,437 m:  2

914 to 1,523 m:  1

under 914 m:  1 (2000 est.)



Netherlands Antilles    Military

Military branches: Royal Netherlands Navy, Marine Corps, Coast
Guard, National Guard, Police Force

Military manpower - military age: 20 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  54,284 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
30,405 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  1,610
(2001 est.)

Military - note: defense is the responsibility of the Kingdom of the
Netherlands



Netherlands Antilles    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

Illicit drugs: money-laundering center; transshipment point for
South American drugs bound for the US and Europe

======================================================================

@New Caledonia





New Caledonia    Introduction

Background: Settled by both Britain and France during the first half
of the 19th century, the island was made a French possession in
1853. It served as a penal colony for four decades after 1864.
Agitation for independence during the 1980s and early 1990s seems to
have dissipated.



New Caledonia    Geography

Location: Oceania, islands in the South Pacific Ocean, east of
Australia

Geographic coordinates: 21 30 S, 165 30 E

Map references: Oceania

Area: total:  19,060 sq km

land:  18,575 sq km

water:  485 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly smaller than New Jersey

Land boundaries: 0 km

Coastline: 2,254 km

Maritime claims: exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: tropical; modified by southeast trade winds; hot, humid

Terrain: coastal plains with interior mountains

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Pacific Ocean 0 m

highest point:  Mont Panie 1,628 m

Natural resources: nickel, chrome, iron, cobalt, manganese, silver,
gold, lead, copper

Land use: arable land:  0%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  12%

forests and woodland:  39%

other:  49% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 160 sq km (1991)

Natural hazards: cyclones, most frequent from November to March

Environment - current issues: erosion caused by mining exploitation
and forest fires



New Caledonia    People

Population: 204,863 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  30.31% (male 31,674; female 30,416)

15-64 years:  63.95% (male 66,014; female 65,006)

65 years and over:  5.74% (male 5,548; female 6,205) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 1.48% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 20.37 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 5.62 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1.02 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.89 male(s)/female

total population:  1.02 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 8.4 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  73.02 years

male:  70.08 years

female:  76.11 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 2.48 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: NA%

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: NA

HIV/AIDS - deaths: NA

Nationality: noun:  New Caledonian(s)

adjective:  New Caledonian

Ethnic groups: Melanesian 42.5%, European 37.1%, Wallisian 8.4%,
Polynesian 3.8%, Indonesian 3.6%, Vietnamese 1.6%, other 3%

Religions: Roman Catholic 60%, Protestant 30%, other 10%

Languages: French (official), 33 Melanesian-Polynesian dialects

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  91%

male:  92%

female:  90% (1976 est.)



New Caledonia    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Territory of New Caledonia
and Dependencies

conventional short form:  New Caledonia

local long form:  Territoire des Nouvelle-Caledonie et Dependances

local short form:  Nouvelle-Caledonie

Dependency status: overseas territory of France since 1956

Government type: NA

Capital: Noumea

Administrative divisions: none (overseas territory of France); there
are no first-order administrative divisions as defined by the US
Government, but there are 3 provinces named Iles Loyaute, Nord, and
Sud

Independence: none (overseas territory of France); note - a
referendum on independence was held in 1998 but did not pass

National holiday: Bastille Day, 14 July (1789)

Constitution: 28 September 1958 (French Constitution)

Legal system: the 1988 Matignon Accords grant substantial autonomy
to the islands; formerly under French law

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  President of France Jacques
CHIRAC (since 17 May 1995), represented by High Commissioner Thierry
LATASTE (since 19 July 1999)

head of government:  President of the Government Jean LEQUES (since
28 May 1999)

cabinet:  Consultative Committee

elections:  French president elected by popular vote for a
seven-year term; high commissioner appointed by the French president
on the advice of the French Ministry of Interior; president of the
government elected by the members of the Territorial Congress

Legislative branch: unicameral Territorial Congress or Congres
Territorial (54 seats; members are members of the three Provincial
Assemblies or Assemblees Provinciales elected by popular vote to
serve five-year terms)

elections:  last held 9 May 1999 (next to be held NA 2004)

election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
RPCR 24, FLNKS 12, UNI 6, FCCI 4, FN 4, Alliance pour la Caledonie
3, LKS 1

note:  New Caledonia elects 1 seat to the French Senate; elections
last held 27 September 1992 (next to be held NA September 2001);
results - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party - RPR 1; New
Caledonia also elects 2 seats to the French National Assembly;
elections last held 25 May-1 June 1997 (next to be held NA 2002);
results - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party - RPR 2

Judicial branch: Court of Appeal or Cour d'Appel; County Courts;
Joint Commerce Tribunal Court; Children's Court

Political parties and leaders: Alliance pour la Caledonie [Didier
LEROUX]; Developper Ensemble pour Construire l'Avenir or DEPCA
[Robert FROUIN]; Federation des Comites de Coordination des
Independantistes or FCCI [Leopald SOREDIE]; Front Uni de Liberation
Kanak or FULK [Ernest UNE]; Groupe de l'Alliance Multiraciale or GAM
[Dany DALMAYRAE]; Independance et Progres [Alphonse PUJAPUJANE];
Kanak Socialist Front for National Liberation or FLNKS [Rock
WAMYTAN] (includes PALIKA, UNI, UC, and UPM); La Caledonie Autrement
[Denis MILLIARD]; Loyalty Islands Development Front or FDIL [Cono
HAMU]; National Front or FN [Guy GEORGE]; Parti de Liberation Kanak
or PALIKA [Charles WASHETINE]; Rally for Caledonia in the Republic
or RPCR [Jacques LAFLEUR]; Rally for the Republic or RPR [leader
NA]; Renouveau [Thierry VALET]; Socialist Kanak Liberation or LKS
[Nidoish NAISSELINE]; Union Caledonienne or UC [Bernard LEPEU];
Union Nationale pour l'Independance or UNI [Paul NEAOUTYINE]; Union
Progressiste Melanesienne or UPM [Andre GOPEA]

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: ESCAP (associate), FZ,
ICFTU, SPC, WFTU, WMO

Diplomatic representation in the US: none (overseas territory of
France)

Diplomatic representation from the US: none (overseas territory of
France)

Flag description: the flag of France is used



New Caledonia    Economy

Economy - overview: New Caledonia has more than 20% of the world's
known nickel resources. In recent years, the economy has suffered
because of depressed international demand for nickel, the principal
source of export earnings. Only a negligible amount of the land is
suitable for cultivation, and food accounts for about 20% of
imports. In addition to nickel, the substantial financial support
from France and tourism are keys to the health of the economy. The
situation in 1998 was clouded by the spillover of financial problems
in East Asia and by lower prices for nickel. Nickel prices jumped in
1999-2000, and large additions were made to capacity. French
Government interests in the New Caledonian nickel industry are being
transferred to local ownership.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $3 billion (1998 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 3.5% (1998 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $15,000 (1998 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  4%

industry:  30%

services:  66% (1997 est.)

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 1.5% (1998 est.)

Labor force: 79,395 (including 15, 018 unemployed, 1996)

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture 7%, industry 23%, services
70% (1999 est.)

Unemployment rate: 19% (1996)

Budget: revenues:  $861.3 million

expenditures:  $735.3 million, including capital expenditures of $52
million (1996 est.)

Industries: nickel mining and smelting

Industrial production growth rate: -0.6% (1996)

Electricity - production: 1.52 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  78.95%

hydro:  21.05%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 1.414 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: vegetables; beef, deer, other livestock
products

Exports: $411 million (f.o.b., 1999)

Exports - commodities: ferronickels, nickel ore, fish

Exports - partners: Japan 27%, France 17%, Taiwan 12%, South Korea
9% (1999)

Imports: $843 million (f.o.b., 1999)

Imports - commodities: transport equipment, machinery and electrical
equipment, fuels, minerals, wine, sugar, rice

Imports - partners: France 49%, Australia 14%, Singapore 6%, New
Zealand 5%, US 5% (1999)

Debt - external: $79 million (1998 est.)

Economic aid - recipient: $880 million annual subsidy from France

Currency: Comptoirs Francais du Pacifique franc (XPF)

Currency code: XPF

Exchange rates: Comptoirs Francais du Pacifique francs (XPF) per US
dollar - 127.11 (January 2001), 129.44 (2000), 111.93 (1999), 107.25
(1998), 106.11 (1997), 93.00 (1996); note - linked at the rate of
119.25 XPF to the euro

Fiscal year: calendar year



New Caledonia    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 47,000 (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 13,040 (1998)

Telephone system: general assessment:  NA

domestic:  NA

international:  satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (Pacific Ocean)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 1, FM 5, shortwave 0 (1998)

Radios: 107,000 (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 6 (plus 25 low-power repeaters) (1997)

Televisions: 52,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .nc

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 1 (2000)

Internet users: 5,000 (2000)



New Caledonia    Transportation

Railways: 0 km

Highways: total:  4,825 km

paved:  2,287 km

unpaved:  2,538 km (1999)

Waterways: none

Ports and harbors: Mueo, Noumea, Thio

Merchant marine: total:  1 ship (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 1,261
GRT/1,600 DWT

ships by type:  cargo 1 (2000 est.)

Airports: 29 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  6

over 3,047 m:  1

914 to 1,523 m:  4

under 914 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  23

914 to 1,523 m:  12

under 914 m:  11 (2000 est.)

Heliports: 6 (2000 est.)



New Caledonia    Military

Military branches: French Armed Forces (Army, Navy, Air Force,
Gendarmerie); Police Force

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $192.3 million (1996)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 5.3% (1996)

Military - note: defense is the responsibility of France



New Caledonia    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: Matthew and Hunter Islands east of New
Caledonia claimed by France and Vanuatu

======================================================================

@New Zealand




New Zealand    Introduction

Background: The British colony of New Zealand became an independent
dominion in 1907 and supported the UK militarily in both World Wars.
New Zealand withdrew from a number of defense alliances during the
1970s and 1980s. In recent years the government has sought to
address longstanding native Maori grievances.



New Zealand    Geography

Location: Oceania, islands in the South Pacific Ocean, southeast of
Australia

Geographic coordinates: 41 00 S, 174 00 E

Map references: Oceania

Area: total:  268,680 sq km

land:  268,670 sq km

water:  10 sq km

note:  includes Antipodes Islands, Auckland Islands, Bounty Islands,
Campbell Island, Chatham Islands, and Kermadec Islands

Area - comparative: about the size of Colorado

Land boundaries: 0 km

Coastline: 15,134 km

Maritime claims: continental shelf:  200 NM or to the edge of the
continental margin

exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: temperate with sharp regional contrasts

Terrain: predominately mountainous with some large coastal plains

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Pacific Ocean 0 m

highest point:  Mount Cook 3,764 m

Natural resources: natural gas, iron ore, sand, coal, timber,
hydropower, gold, limestone

Land use: arable land:  9%

permanent crops:  5%

permanent pastures:  50%

forests and woodland:  28%

other:  8% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 2,850 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: earthquakes are common, though usually not severe;
volcanic activity

Environment - current issues: deforestation; soil erosion; native
flora and fauna hard-hit by species introduced from outside

Environment - international agreements: party to:
Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic-Marine Living Resources,
Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification,
Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes,
Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer
Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94,
Wetlands, Whaling

signed, but not ratified:  Antarctic Seals, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Marine Life Conservation

Geography - note: about 80% of the population lives in cities;
Wellington is the southernmost national capital in the world



New Zealand    People

Population: 3,864,129 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  22.36% (male 442,738; female 421,462)

15-64 years:  66.11% (male 1,281,781; female 1,272,674)

65 years and over:  11.53% (male 193,895; female 251,579) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 1.14% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 14.28 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 7.56 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 4.71 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.04 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1.01 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.77 male(s)/female

total population:  0.99 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 6.28 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  77.99 years

male:  75.01 years

female:  81.1 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 1.8 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 0.06% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 1,200 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: less than 100 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  New Zealander(s)

adjective:  New Zealand

Ethnic groups: New Zealand European 74.5%, Maori 9.7%, other
European 4.6%, Pacific Islander 3.8%, Asian and others 7.4%

Religions: Anglican 24%, Presbyterian 18%, Roman Catholic 15%,
Methodist 5%, Baptist 2%, other Protestant 3%, unspecified or none
33% (1986)

Languages: English (official), Maori

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  99% (1980 est.)

male:  NA%

female:  NA%



New Zealand    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  none

conventional short form:  New Zealand

abbreviation:  NZ

Government type: parliamentary democracy

Capital: Wellington

Administrative divisions: 93 counties, 9 districts*, and 3 town
districts**; Akaroa, Amuri, Ashburton, Bay of Islands, Bruce,
Buller, Chatham Islands, Cheviot, Clifton, Clutha, Cook, Dannevirke,
Egmont, Eketahuna, Ellesmere, Eltham, Eyre, Featherston, Franklin,
Golden Bay, Great Barrier Island, Grey, Hauraki Plains, Hawera*,
Hawke's Bay, Heathcote, Hikurangi**, Hobson, Hokianga, Horowhenua,
Hurunui, Hutt, Inangahua, Inglewood, Kaikoura, Kairanga, Kiwitea,
Lake, Mackenzie, Malvern, Manaia**, Manawatu, Mangonui, Maniototo,
Marlborough, Masterton, Matamata, Mount Herbert, Ohinemuri, Opotiki,
Oroua, Otamatea, Otorohanga*, Oxford, Pahiatua, Paparua, Patea,
Piako, Pohangina, Raglan, Rangiora*, Rangitikei, Rodney, Rotorua*,
Runanga, Saint Kilda, Silverpeaks, Southland, Stewart Island,
Stratford, Strathallan, Taranaki, Taumarunui, Taupo, Tauranga,
Thames-Coromandel*, Tuapeka, Vincent, Waiapu, Waiheke, Waihemo,
Waikato, Waikohu, Waimairi, Waimarino, Waimate, Waimate West,
Waimea, Waipa, Waipawa*, Waipukurau*, Wairarapa South, Wairewa,
Wairoa, Waitaki, Waitomo*, Waitotara, Wallace, Wanganui, Waverley**,
Westland, Whakatane*, Whangarei, Whangaroa, Woodville

note:  there may be a new administrative structure of 16 regions
(Auckland, Bay of Plenty, Canterbury, Gisborne, Hawke's Bay,
Marlborough, Nelson, Northland, Otago, Southland, Taranaki, Tasman,
Waikato, Wanganui-Manawatu, Wellington, West Coast) that are
subdivided into 57 districts and 16 cities* (Ashburton, Auckland*,
Banks Peninsula, Buller, Carterton, Central Hawke's Bay, Central
Otago, Christchurch*, Clutha, Dunedin*, Far North, Franklin,
Gisborne, Gore, Grey, Hamilton*, Hastings, Hauraki, Horowhenua,
Hurunui, Hutt*, Invercargill*, Kaikoura, Kaipara, Kapiti Coast,
Kawerau, Mackenzie, Manawatu, Manukau*, Marlborough, Masterton,
Matamata Piako, Napier*, Nelson*, New Plymouth, North Shore*,
Opotiki, Otorohanga, Palmerston North*, Papakura*, Porirua*,
Queenstown Lakes, Rangitikei, Rodney, Rotorua, Ruapehu, Selwyn,
Southland, South Taranaki, South Waikato, South Wairarapa,
Stratford, Tararua, Tasman, Taupo, Tauranga, Thames Coromandel,
Timaru, Upper Hutt*, Waikato, Waimakariri, Waimate, Waipa, Wairoa,
Waitakere*, Waitaki, Waitomo, Wanganui, Wellington*, Western Bay of
Plenty, Westland, Whakatane, Whangarei)

Dependent areas: Cook Islands, Niue, Tokelau

Independence: 26 September 1907 (from UK)

National holiday: Waitangi Day (Treaty of Waitangi established
British sovereignty over New Zealand), 6 February (1840)

Constitution: consists of a series of legal documents, including
certain acts of the UK and New Zealand Parliaments and The
Constitution Act 1986 which is the principal formal charter

Legal system: based on English law, with special land legislation
and land courts for Maoris; accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction,
with reservations

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6
February 1952), represented by Governor General Dame Silvia
CARTWRIGHT (since 4 April 2001)

head of government:  Prime Minister Helen CLARK (since 10 December
1999) and Deputy Prime Minister Jim ANDERTON (since 10 December 1999)

cabinet:  Executive Council appointed by the governor general on the
recommendation of the prime minister

elections:  none; the monarch is hereditary; governor general
appointed by the monarch; following legislative elections, the
leader of the majority party or the leader of a majority coalition
is usually appointed prime minister by the governor general for a
three-year term; deputy prime minister appointed by the governor
general

Legislative branch: unicameral House of Representatives - commonly
called Parliament (120 seats; members elected by popular vote in
single-member constituencies to serve three-year terms)

elections:  last held 27 November 1999 (next must be called by
November 2002)

election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
NZLP 49, NP 39, Alliance 10, ACT New Zealand 9, Green Party 7, NZFP
5, UNZ 1

note:  NZLP and Alliance formed the government coalition; the
National Party became the opposition party

Judicial branch: High Court; Court of Appeal

Political parties and leaders: ACT, New Zealand [Richard PREBBLE];
Alliance (a coalition of the New Labor Party, Democratic Party, New
Zealand Liberal Party, and Mana Motuhake) [Jim ANDERTON]; Green
Party [Jeanette FITZSIMONS and Rod DONALD]; National Party or NP
[Jenny SHIPLEY]; New Zealand First Party or NZFP [Winston PETERS];
New Zealand Labor Party or NZLP [Helen CLARK]; United New Zealand or
UNZ [Peter DUNNE]

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: ABEDA, ANZUS (US suspended
security obligations to NZ on 11 August 1986), APEC, ARF (dialogue
partner), AsDB, ASEAN (dialogue partner), Australia Group, C, CCC,
CP, EBRD, ESCAP, FAO, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IEA, IFAD,
IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC,
IOM (observer), ISO, ITU, NAM (guest), NSG, OECD, OPCW, PCA,
Sparteca, SPC, SPF, UN, UNAMSIL, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNMIK,
UNMOP, UNTAET, UNTSO, UPU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTrO

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
James Brendan BOLGER

chancery:  37 Observatory Circle NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone:  [1] (202) 328-4800

FAX:  [1] (202) 667-5227

consulate(s) general:  Los Angeles, New York

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Carol MOSELEY-BRAUN

embassy:  29 Fitzherbert Terrace, Thorndon, Wellington

mailing address:  P. O. Box 1190, Wellington; PSC 467, Box 1, FPO AP
96531-1001

telephone:  [64] (4) 472-2068

FAX:  [64] (4) 478-1701

consulate(s) general:  Auckland

Flag description: blue with the flag of the UK in the upper
hoist-side quadrant with four red five-pointed stars edged in white
centered in the outer half of the flag; the stars represent the
Southern Cross constellation



New Zealand    Economy

Economy - overview: Since 1984 the government has accomplished major
economic restructuring, moving an agrarian economy dependent on
concessionary British market access toward a more industrialized,
free market economy that can compete globally. This dynamic growth
has boosted real incomes, broadened and deepened the technological
capabilities of the industrial sector, and contained inflationary
pressures. Inflation remains among the lowest in the industrial
world. Per capita GDP has been moving up toward the levels of the
big West European economies. New Zealand's heavy dependence on trade
leaves its growth prospects vulnerable to economic performance in
Asia, Europe, and the US. With the FY00/01 budget pushing up pension
and other public outlays, the government's ability to meet fiscal
targets will depend on sustained economic growth.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $67.6 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 3.6% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $17,700 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  8%

industry:  23%

services:  69% (1999)

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:
0.3%

highest 10%:  29.8% (1991 est.)

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 2.4% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 1.88 million (2000)

Labor force - by occupation: services 65%, industry 25%, agriculture
10% (1995)

Unemployment rate: 6.3% (2000 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $19.2 billion

expenditures:  $19.2 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
(1999 est.)

Industries: food processing, wood and paper products, textiles,
machinery, transportation equipment, banking and insurance, tourism,
mining

Industrial production growth rate: 6.2% (2000)

Electricity - production: 37.952 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  30.49%

hydro:  61.42%

nuclear:  0%

other:  8.09% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 35.295 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: wheat, barley, potatoes, pulses, fruits,
vegetables; wool, beef, dairy products; fish

Exports: $14.6 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Exports - commodities: dairy products, meat, fish, wool, forestry
products, manufactures

Exports - partners: Australia 22%, US 14%, Japan 13%, UK 7% (1999)

Imports: $14.3 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Imports - commodities: machinery and equipment, vehicles and
aircraft, petroleum, consumer goods, plastics

Imports - partners: Australia 24%, US 17%, Japan 12%, UK 4% (1999)

Debt - external: $30.8 billion (2000 est.)

Economic aid - donor: ODA, $123 million (1995)

Currency: New Zealand dollar (NZD)

Currency code: NZD

Exchange rates: New Zealand dollars per US dollar - 2.2502 (January
2001), 2.1863 (2000), 1.8886 (1999), 1.8632 (1998), 1.5083 (1997),
1.4543 (1996)

Fiscal year: 1 July - 30 June



New Zealand    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 1.84 million (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 588,000 (1998)

Telephone system: general assessment:  excellent domestic and
international systems

domestic:  NA

international:  submarine cables to Australia and Fiji; satellite
earth stations - 2 Intelsat (Pacific Ocean)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 124, FM 290, shortwave 4 (1998)

Radios: 3.75 million (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 41 (plus 52 medium-power repeaters
and over 650 low-power repeaters) (1997)

Televisions: 1.926 million (1997)

Internet country code: .nz

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 36 (2000)

Internet users: 1.34 million (2000)



New Zealand    Transportation

Railways: total:  3,913 km

narrow gauge:  3,913 km 1.067-m gauge (519 km electrified) (1999)

Highways: total:  92,200 km

paved:  53,568 km (including at least 144 km of expressways)

unpaved:  38,632 km (1996)

Waterways: 1,609 km

note:  of little importance in satisfying total transportation
requirements

Pipelines: petroleum products 160 km; natural gas 1,000 km;
liquefied petroleum gas or LPG 150 km

Ports and harbors: Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin, Tauranga,
Wellington

Merchant marine: total:  9 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 72,389
GRT/109,018 DWT

ships by type:  bulk 3, cargo 1, container 1, petroleum tanker 2,
railcar carrier 1, roll on/roll off 1 (2000 est.)

Airports: 111 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  44

over 3,047 m:  2

2,438 to 3,047 m:  1

1,524 to 2,437 m:  10

914 to 1,523 m:  28

under 914 m:  3 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  67

1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

914 to 1,523 m:  24

under 914 m:  42 (2000 est.)



New Zealand    Military

Military branches: New Zealand Army, Royal New Zealand Navy, Royal
New Zealand Air Force

Military manpower - military age: 20 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  1,000,102 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
841,915 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  26,480
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $883 million (FY97/98)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 1.1% (FY97/98)



New Zealand    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: territorial claim in Antarctica (Ross
Dependency)

======================================================================

@Nicaragua




Nicaragua    Introduction

Background: Settled as a colony of Spain in the 1520s, Nicaragua
gained its independence in 1821. Violent opposition to governmental
manipulation and corruption spread to all classes by 1978 and
resulted in a short-lived civil war that brought the Marxist
Sandinista guerrillas to power in 1979. Nicaraguan aid to leftist
rebels in El Salvador caused the US to sponsor anti-Sandinista
contra guerrillas through much of the 1980s. Free elections in 1990
and again in 1996 saw the Sandinistas defeated. The country has
slowly rebuilt its economy during the 1990s, but was hard hit by
Hurricane Mitch in 1998.



Nicaragua    Geography

Location: Middle America, bordering both the Caribbean Sea and the
North Pacific Ocean, between Costa Rica and Honduras

Geographic coordinates: 13 00 N, 85 00 W

Map references: Central America and the Caribbean

Area: total:  129,494 sq km

land:  120,254 sq km

water:  9,240 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly smaller than the state of New York

Land boundaries: total:  1,231 km

border countries:  Costa Rica 309 km, Honduras 922 km

Coastline: 910 km

Maritime claims: continental shelf:  natural prolongation

territorial sea:  200 NM

Climate: tropical in lowlands, cooler in highlands

Terrain: extensive Atlantic coastal plains rising to central
interior mountains; narrow Pacific coastal plain interrupted by
volcanoes

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Pacific Ocean 0 m

highest point:  Mogoton 2,438 m

Natural resources: gold, silver, copper, tungsten, lead, zinc,
timber, fish

Land use: arable land:  9%

permanent crops:  1%

permanent pastures:  46%

forests and woodland:  27%

other:  17% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 880 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: destructive earthquakes, volcanoes, landslides, and
occasionally severe hurricanes

Environment - current issues: deforestation; soil erosion; water
pollution; Hurricane Mitch damage

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification,
Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Nuclear Test
Ban, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands

signed, but not ratified:  Environmental Modification



Nicaragua    People

Population: 4,918,393 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  38.98% (male 976,087; female 941,141)

15-64 years:  58.08% (male 1,418,555; female 1,438,096)

65 years and over:  2.94% (male 62,963; female 81,551) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 2.15% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 27.64 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 4.82 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: -1.33 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  0.99 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.77 male(s)/female

total population:  1 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 33.66 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  69.05 years

male:  67.1 years

female:  71.11 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 3.18 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 0.2% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 4,900 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: 360 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Nicaraguan(s)

adjective:  Nicaraguan

Ethnic groups: mestizo (mixed Amerindian and white) 69%, white 17%,
black 9%, Amerindian 5%

Religions: Roman Catholic 85%, Protestant

Languages: Spanish (official)

note:  English and indigenous languages on Atlantic coast

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  65.7%

male:  64.6%

female:  66.6% (1995 est.)



Nicaragua    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Republic of Nicaragua

conventional short form:  Nicaragua

local long form:  Republica de Nicaragua

local short form:  Nicaragua

Government type: republic

Capital: Managua

Administrative divisions: 15 departments (departamentos, singular -
departamento), 2 autonomous regions* (regiones autonomistas,
singular - region autonomista); Boaco, Carazo, Chinandega,
Chontales, Esteli, Granada, Jinotega, Leon, Madriz, Managua, Masaya,
Matagalpa, Nueva Segovia, Rio San Juan, Rivas, Atlantico Norte*,
Atlantico Sur*

Independence: 15 September 1821 (from Spain)

National holiday: Independence Day, 15 September (1821)

Constitution: 9 January 1987, with reforms in 1995 and 2000

Legal system: civil law system; Supreme Court may review
administrative acts

Suffrage: 16 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Arnoldo ALEMAN Lacayo
(since 10 January 1997); Vice President Leopoldo NAVARRO (since 24
October 2000); note - the president is both chief of state and head
of government

head of government:  President Arnoldo ALEMAN Lacayo (since 10
January 1997); Vice President Leopoldo NAVARRO (since 24 October
2000); note - the president is both chief of state and head of
government

cabinet:  Council of Ministers appointed by the president

elections:  president and vice president elected on the same ticket
by popular vote for a five-year term; election last held 20 October
1996 (next to be held 4 November 2001); note - in July 1995 the term
of the office of the president was amended to five years

election results:  Arnoldo ALEMAN Lacayo (Liberal Alliance - ruling
party - includes PLC, PALI, PLIUN, and PUCA) 51.03%, Daniel ORTEGA
Saavedra (FSLN) 37.75%, Guillermo OSORNO (PCCN) 4.10%, Noel VIDAURRE
(PCN) 2.26%, Benjamin LANZAS (PRONAL) 0.53%, other (18 other
candidates) 4.33%

Legislative branch: unicameral National Assembly or Asamblea
Nacional (93 seats; members are elected by proportional
representation to serve five-year terms)

elections:  last held 20 October 1996 (next to be held 4 November
2001)

election results:  percent of vote by party - Liberal Alliance
(ruling party - includes PLC, PALI, PLIUN, and PUCA) 46.03%, FSLN
36.55%, PCCN 3.73%, PCN 2.12%, MRS 1.33%; seats by party - Liberal
Alliance 42, FSLN 36, PCCN 4, PCN 3, PRONAL 2, MRS 1, PRN 1, PC 1,
PLI 1, AU 1, UNO-96 Alliance 1

Judicial branch: Supreme Court or Corte Suprema (16 judges elected
for seven-year terms by the National Assembly)

Political parties and leaders: Conservative Party of Nicaragua or
PCN [Dr. Fernando AGUERO Rocha]; Independent Liberal Party or PLI
[Virgilio GODOY]; Liberal Alliance (ruling alliance including
Liberal Constitutional Party or PLC, New Liberal Party or PALI,
Independent Liberal Party for National Unity or PLIUN, and Central
American Unionist Party or PUCA) [leader NA]; National Conservative
Party or PC [Pedro SOLARZANO, Noel VIDAURRE]; National Project or
PRONAL [Benjamin LANZAS]; Nicaraguan Party of the Christian Path or
PCCN [Guillermo OSORNO, Roberto RODRIGUEZ]; Nicaraguan Resistance
Party or PRN [Salvador TALAVERA]; Sandinista National Liberation
Front or FSLN [Daniel ORTEGA Saavedra]; Sandinista Renovation
Movement or MRS [Sergio RAMIREZ]; Unity Alliance or AU [Alejandro
SERRANO]; Union Nacional Opositora 96 or UNO-96 [Alfredo CESAR
Aguirre]

Political pressure groups and leaders: National Workers Front or FNT
is a Sandinista umbrella group of eight labor unions including -
Farm Workers Association or ATC, Health Workers Federation or
FETASALUD, Heroes and Martyrs Confederation of Professional
Associations or CONAPRO, National Association of Educators of
Nicaragua or ANDEN, National Union of Employees or UNE, National
Union of Farmers and Ranchers or UNAG, Sandinista Workers Central or
CST, and Union of Journalists of Nicaragua or UPN; Permanent
Congress of Workers or CPT is an umbrella group of four
non-Sandinista labor unions including - Autonomous Nicaraguan
Workers Central or CTN-A, Confederation of Labor Unification or CUS,
Independent General Confederation of Labor or CGT-I, and Labor
Action and Unity Central or CAUS; Nicaraguan Workers' Central or CTN
is an independent labor union; Superior Council of Private
Enterprise or COSEP is a confederation of business groups

International organization participation: BCIE, CACM, CCC, ECLAC,
FAO, G-77, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC,
IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO
(correspondent), ITU, LAES, LAIA (observer), NAM, OAS, OPANAL, OPCW,
PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WHO, WIPO, WMO,
WToO, WTrO

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Alfonso ORTEGA Urbina

chancery:  1627 New Hampshire Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20009

telephone:  [1] (202) 939-6570

FAX:  [1] (202) 939-6542

consulate(s) general:  Houston, Los Angeles, Miami, New Orleans, New
York

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Oliver P. GARZA

embassy:  Apartado Postal 327, Kilometer 4.5 Carretera Sur, Managua

mailing address:  APO AA 34021

telephone:  [505] (2) 662298, 666010, 666012, 666013, 666015,
666018, 666026, 666027, 666032, 666033

FAX:  [505] (2) 669074

Flag description: three equal horizontal bands of blue (top), white,
and blue with the national coat of arms centered in the white band;
the coat of arms features a triangle encircled by the words
REPUBLICA DE NICARAGUA on the top and AMERICA CENTRAL on the bottom;
similar to the flag of El Salvador, which features a round emblem
encircled by the words REPUBLICA DE EL SALVADOR EN LA AMERICA
CENTRAL centered in the white band; also similar to the flag of
Honduras, which has five blue stars arranged in an X pattern
centered in the white band



Nicaragua    Economy

Economy - overview: Nicaragua, one of the hemisphere's poorest
countries, faces low per capita income, flagging socio-economic
indicators, and huge external debt. While the country has made
progress toward macro-economic stabilization over the past few
years, a banking crisis and scandal has shaken the economy. Managua
will continue to be dependent on international aid and debt relief
under the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) initiative. Donors
have made aid conditional on improving governability, the openness
of government financial operation, poverty alleviation, and human
rights. Nicaragua met the conditions for additional debt service
relief in December 2000. Growth should remain moderate to high in
2001.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $13.1 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 5% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $2,700 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  31.6%

industry:  22.8%

services:  45.6% (1999)

Population below poverty line: 50% (2000 est.)

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:
1.6%

highest 10%:  39.8% (1993)

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 11% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 1.7 million (1999)

Labor force - by occupation: services 43%, agriculture 42%, industry
15% (1999 est.)

Unemployment rate: 20% plus considerable underemployment (1999 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $734 million

expenditures:  $836 million, including capital expenditures of $NA
(1999 est.)

Industries: food processing, chemicals, machinery and metal
products, textiles, clothing, petroleum refining and distribution,
beverages, footwear, wood

Industrial production growth rate: 4.4% (2000 est.)

Electricity - production: 2.349 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  67.26%

hydro:  17.71%

nuclear:  0%

other:  15.03% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 2.265 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 20 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 100 million kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: coffee, bananas, sugarcane, cotton, rice,
corn, tobacco, sesame, soya, beans; beef, veal, pork, poultry, dairy
products

Exports: $631 million (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Exports - commodities: coffee, shrimp and lobster, cotton, tobacco,
beef, sugar, bananas; gold

Exports - partners: US 37.7%, El Salvador 12.5%, Germany 9.8%, Costa
Rica 5.1%, Spain 2.5%, France 2.1% (1999)

Imports: $1.6 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Imports - commodities: machinery and equipment, raw materials,
petroleum products, consumer goods

Imports - partners: US 34.5%, Costa Rica 11.4%, Guatemala 7.3%,
Panama 6.9%, Venezuela 5.9%, El Salvador 5.5% (1999)

Debt - external: $6.4 billion (2000 est.)

Economic aid - recipient: NA

Currency: gold cordoba (NIO)

Currency code: NIO

Exchange rates: gold cordobas per US dollar - 12.96 (November 2000),
12.69 (2000 est.), 11.81 (1999), 10.58 (1998), 9.45 (1997), 8.44
(1996)

Fiscal year: calendar year



Nicaragua    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 140,000 (1996)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 7,911 (1997)

Telephone system: general assessment:  inadequate system being
upgraded by foreign investment

domestic:  low-capacity microwave radio relay and wire system being
expanded; connected to Central American Microwave System

international:  satellite earth stations - 1 Intersputnik (Atlantic
Ocean region) and 1 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 63, FM 32, shortwave 1 (1998)

Radios: 1.24 million (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 3 (plus seven low-power repeaters)
(1997)

Televisions: 320,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .ni

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 3 (2000)

Internet users: 20,000 (2000)



Nicaragua    Transportation

Highways: total:  16,382 km

paved:  1,818 km

unpaved:  14,564 km (1998)

Waterways: 2,220 km (including 2 large lakes)

Pipelines: crude oil 56 km

Ports and harbors: Bluefields, Corinto, El Bluff, Puerto Cabezas,
Puerto Sandino, Rama, San Juan del Sur

Merchant marine: none (2000 est.)

Airports: 182 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  11

2,438 to 3,047 m:  2

1,524 to 2,437 m:  3

914 to 1,523 m:  3

under 914 m:  3 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  171

1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

914 to 1,523 m:  25

under 914 m:  145 (2000 est.)



Nicaragua    Military

Military branches: Army, Navy, Air Force

Military manpower - military age: 18 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  1,269,322 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
779,267 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  58,232
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $26 million (FY98)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 1.2% (FY98)



Nicaragua    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: territorial disputes with Colombia over
the Archipelago de San Andres y Providencia and Quita Sueno Bank;
with respect to the maritime boundary question in the Golfo de
Fonseca, the ICJ referred to the line determined by the 1900
Honduras-Nicaragua Mixed Boundary Commission and advised that some
tripartite resolution among El Salvador, Honduras, and Nicaragua
likely would be required; maritime boundary dispute with Honduras in
the Caribbean Sea is before the ICJ; legal dispute over navigational
rights of San Juan River on border with Costa Rica

Illicit drugs: transshipment point for cocaine destined for the US
and transshipment point for arms-for-drugs dealing

======================================================================

@Niger




Niger    Introduction

Background: Not until 1993, 33 years after independence from France,
did Niger hold its first free and open elections. A 1995 peace
accord ended a five-year Tuareg insurgency in the north. Coups in
1996 and 1999 were followed by the creation of a National
Reconciliation Council that effected a transition to civilian rule
in December 1999.



Niger    Geography

Location: Western Africa, southeast of Algeria

Geographic coordinates: 16 00 N, 8 00 E

Map references: Africa

Area: total:  1.267 million sq km

land:  1,266,700 sq km

water:  300 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly less than twice the size of Texas

Land boundaries: total:  5,697 km

border countries:  Algeria 956 km, Benin 266 km, Burkina Faso 628
km, Chad 1,175 km, Libya 354 km, Mali 821 km, Nigeria 1,497 km

Coastline: 0 km (landlocked)

Maritime claims: none (landlocked)

Climate: desert; mostly hot, dry, dusty; tropical in extreme south

Terrain: predominately desert plains and sand dunes; flat to rolling
plains in south; hills in north

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Niger River 200 m

highest point:  Mont Greboun 1,944 m

Natural resources: uranium, coal, iron ore, tin, phosphates, gold,
petroleum

Land use: arable land:  3%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  7%

forests and woodland:  2%

other:  88% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 660 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: recurring droughts

Environment - current issues: overgrazing; soil erosion;
deforestation; desertification; wildlife populations (such as
elephant, hippopotamus, giraffe, and lion) threatened because of
poaching and habitat destruction

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental
Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer
Protection, Wetlands

signed, but not ratified:  Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Law of the
Sea

Geography - note: landlocked



Niger    People

Population: 10,355,156 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  47.97% (male 2,528,484; female 2,439,051)

15-64 years:  49.75% (male 2,518,400; female 2,633,677)

65 years and over:  2.28% (male 123,589; female 111,955) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 2.72% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 50.68 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 22.71 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: -0.73 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.03 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  0.96 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  1.1 male(s)/female

total population:  1 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 123.57 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  41.59 years

male:  41.74 years

female:  41.44 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 7.08 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 1.35% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 64,000 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: 6,500 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Nigerien(s)

adjective:  Nigerien

Ethnic groups: Hausa 56%, Djerma 22%, Fula 8.5%, Tuareg 8%, Beri
Beri (Kanouri) 4.3%, Arab, Toubou, and Gourmantche 1.2%, about 1,200
French expatriates

Religions: Muslim 80%, remainder indigenous beliefs and Christians

Languages: French (official), Hausa, Djerma

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  13.6%

male:  20.9%

female:  6.6% (1995 est.)



Niger    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Republic of Niger

conventional short form:  Niger

local long form:  Republique du Niger

local short form:  Niger

Government type: republic

Capital: Niamey

Administrative divisions: 7 departments (departements, singular -
departement), and 1 capital district* (capitale district); Agadez,
Diffa, Dosso, Maradi, Niamey*, Tahoua, Tillaberi, Zinder

Independence: 3 August 1958 (from France)

National holiday: Republic Day, 18 December (1958)

Constitution: the constitution of January 1993 was revised by
national referendum on 12 May 1996 and again by referendum on 18
July 1999

Legal system: based on French civil law system and customary law;
has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Mamadou TANDJA (since
22 December 1999); note - the president is both chief of state and
head of government

head of government:  President Mamadou TANDJA (since 22 December
1999); note - the president is both chief of state and head of
government; Prime Minister Hama AMADOU (since 31 December 1999) was
appointed by the president and shares some executive
responsibilities with the president

note:  President Ibrahim BARE was assassinated on 9 April 1999;
subsequent elections were held under the nine-month provisional
government of Major Daouda Mallam WANKE

cabinet:  23-member cabinet appointed by President TANDJA

elections:  president elected by popular vote for a five-year term;
last held 24 November 1999 (next to be held NA 2004)

election results:  Mamadou TANDJA elected president; percent of vote
- Mamadou TANDJA 59.9%, Mahamadou ISSOUFOU 40.1%

Legislative branch: unicameral National Assembly (83 seats, members
elected by popular vote for five-year terms)

elections:  last held 24 November 1999 (next to be held NA 2004)

election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
MNSD-Nassara 38, CDS-Rahama 17, PNDS-Tarayya 16, RDP-Jama'a 8,
ANDPS-Zaman Lahiya 4

Judicial branch: State Court or Cour d'Etat; Court of Appeal or Cour
d'Appel

Political parties and leaders: Democratic Rally of the People-Jama'a
or RDP-Jama'a [Hamid ALGABID]; Democratic and Social
Convention-Rahama or CDS-Rahama [Mahamane OUSMANE]; National
Movement for a Developing Society-Nassara or MNSD-Nassara [Mamadou
TANDJA, chairman]; Nigerien Alliance for Democracy and Social
Progress-Zaman Lahiya or ANDPS-Zaman Lahiya [Moumouni Adamou
DJERMAKOYE]; Nigerien Party for Democracy and Socialism-Tarayya or
PNDS-Tarayya [Mahamadou ISSOUFOU]; Union of Democratic Patriots and
Progressives-Chamoua or UPDP-Chamoua [Professor Andre' SALIFOU,
chairman]

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: ACCT, ACP, AfDB, CCC, ECA,
ECOWAS, Entente, FAO, FZ, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA,
IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, ITU,
MIPONUH, MONUC, NAM, OAU, OIC, OPCW, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU,
WADB, WAEMU, WCL, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Joseph DIATTA

chancery:  2204 R Street NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone:  [1] (202) 483-4224 through 4227

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Charles O. CECIL

embassy:  Rue Des Ambassades, Niamey

mailing address:  B. P. 11201, Niamey

telephone:  [227] 72 26 61 through 72 26 64

FAX:  [227] 73 31 67

Flag description: three equal horizontal bands of orange (top),
white, and green with a small orange disk (representing the sun)
centered in the white band; similar to the flag of India, which has
a blue spoked wheel centered in the white band



Niger    Economy

Economy - overview: Niger is a poor, landlocked Sub-Saharan nation,
whose economy centers on subsistence agriculture, animal husbandry,
reexport trade, and increasingly less on uranium, because of
declining world demand. The 50% devaluation of the West African
franc in January 1994 boosted exports of livestock, cowpeas, onions,
and the products of Niger's small cotton industry. The government
relies on bilateral and multilateral aid - which was suspended
following the April 1999 coup d'etat - for operating expenses and
public investment. In 2000, the World Bank approved a structural
adjustment loan of $35 million to help support fiscal reforms.
However, reforms could prove difficult given the government's bleak
financial situation.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $10 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 3.5% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $1,000 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  40%

industry:  18%

services:  42% (1998)

Population below poverty line: 63% (1993 est.)

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:
0.8%

highest 10%:  35.4% (1995)

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 2.8% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 70,000 receive regular wages or salaries

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture 90%, industry and commerce
6%, government 4%

Unemployment rate: NA%

Budget: revenues:  $377 million, including $146 million from foreign
sources

expenditures:  $377 million, including capital expenditures of $105
million (1999 est.)

Industries: uranium mining, cement, brick, textiles, food
processing, chemicals, slaughterhouses

Industrial production growth rate: NA%

Electricity - production: 200 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  100%

hydro:  0%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 401 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 215 million kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: cowpeas, cotton, peanuts, millet, sorghum,
cassava (tapioca), rice; cattle, sheep, goats, camels, donkeys,
horses, poultry

Exports: $385 million (f.o.b., 1999)

Exports - commodities: uranium ore 65%, livestock products, cowpeas,
onions (1998 est.)

Exports - partners: France 45%, Nigeria 27%, UK 11% (1999)

Imports: $317 million (f.o.b., 1999)

Imports - commodities: consumer goods, primary materials, machinery,
vehicles and parts, petroleum, cereals

Imports - partners: France 22%, Cote d'Ivoire 15%, Nigeria 8%, US 3%
(1999)

Debt - external: $1.3 billion (1999 est.)

Economic aid - recipient: $341 million (1997)

note:  the IMF approved a $73 million poverty reduction and growth
facility for Niger in 2000 and announced $115 million in debt relief
under the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) initiative

Currency: Communaute Financiere Africaine franc (XOF); note -
responsible authority is the Central Bank of the West African States

Currency code: XOF

Exchange rates: Communaute Financiere Africaine francs (XOF) per US
dollar - 699.21 (January 2001), 711.98 (2000), 615.70 (1999), 589.95
(1998), 583.67 (1997), 511.55 (1996); note - from 1 January 1999,
the XOF is pegged to the euro at a rate of 655.957 XOF per euro

Fiscal year: calendar year



Niger    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 16,000 (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 13,000 (1995)

Telephone system: general assessment:  small system of wire, radio
telephone communications, and microwave radio relay links
concentrated in the southwestern area of Niger

domestic:  wire, radiotelephone communications, and microwave radio
relay; domestic satellite system with 3 earth stations and 1 planned

international:  satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat (1 Atlantic
Ocean and 1 Indian Ocean)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 5, FM 5, shortwave 4 (1998)

Radios: 680,000 (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 10 (plus seven low-power repeaters)
(1997)

Televisions: 125,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .ne

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 1 (2000)

Internet users: 3,000 (2000)



Niger    Transportation

Railways: 0 km

Highways: total:  10,100 km

paved:  798 km

unpaved:  9,302 km (1996)

Waterways: 300 km

note:  the Niger River is navigable from Niamey to Gaya on the Benin
frontier from mid-December through March

Ports and harbors: none

Airports: 27 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  9

2,438 to 3,047 m:  2

1,524 to 2,437 m:  6

under 914 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  18

1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

914 to 1,523 m:  15

under 914 m:  2 (2000 est.)



Niger    Military

Military branches: Army, Air Force, National Gendarmerie, Republican
Guard, National Police

Military manpower - military age: 18 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  2,202,608 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
1,190,787 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  108,993
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $20 million (FY96)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 1.1% (FY96)



Niger    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: Libya claims about 19,400 sq km in
northern Niger; delimitation of international boundaries in the
vicinity of Lake Chad, the lack of which led to border incidents in
the past, has been completed and awaits ratification by Cameroon,
Chad, Niger, and Nigeria

======================================================================

@Nigeria




Nigeria    Introduction

Background: Following nearly 16 years of military rule, a new
constitution was adopted in 1999 and a peaceful transition to
civilian government completed. The new president faces the daunting
task of rebuilding a petroleum-based economy, whose revenues have
been squandered through corruption and mismanagement, and
institutionalizing democracy. In addition, the OBASANJO
administration must defuse longstanding ethnic and religious
tensions, if it is to build a sound foundation for economic growth
and political stability.



Nigeria    Geography

Location: Western Africa, bordering the Gulf of Guinea, between
Benin and Cameroon

Geographic coordinates: 10 00 N, 8 00 E

Map references: Africa

Area: total:  923,768 sq km

land:  910,768 sq km

water:  13,000 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly more than twice the size of California

Land boundaries: total:  4,047 km

border countries:  Benin 773 km, Cameroon 1,690 km, Chad 87 km,
Niger 1,497 km

Coastline: 853 km

Maritime claims: continental shelf:  200-m depth or to the depth of
exploitation

exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: varies; equatorial in south, tropical in center, arid in
north

Terrain: southern lowlands merge into central hills and plateaus;
mountains in southeast, plains in north

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Atlantic Ocean 0 m

highest point:  Chappal Waddi 2,419 m

Natural resources: natural gas, petroleum, tin, columbite, iron ore,
coal, limestone, lead, zinc, arable land

Land use: arable land:  33%

permanent crops:  3%

permanent pastures:  44%

forests and woodland:  12%

other:  8% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 9,570 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: periodic droughts

Environment - current issues: soil degradation; rapid deforestation;
desertification

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous
Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Marine Life Conservation,
Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands

signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements



Nigeria    People

Population: 126,635,626

note:  estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
life expectancy, higher infant mortality and death rates, lower
population and growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  43.71% (male 27,842,225; female
27,514,197)

15-64 years:  53.47% (male 34,456,738; female 33,259,194)

65 years and over:  2.82% (male 1,780,862; female 1,782,410) (2001
est.)

Population growth rate: 2.61% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 39.69 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 13.91 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 0.28 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.03 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.01 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  1 male(s)/female

total population:  1.02 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 73.34 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  51.07 years

male:  51.07 years

female:  51.07 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 5.57 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 5.06% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 2.7 million (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: 250,000 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Nigerian(s)

adjective:  Nigerian

Ethnic groups: Nigeria, which is Africa's most populous country, is
composed of more than 250 ethnic groups; the following are the most
populous and politically influential: Hausa and Fulani 29%, Yoruba
21%, Igbo (Ibo) 18%, Ijaw 10%, Kanuri 4%, Ibibio 3.5%, Tiv 2.5%

Religions: Muslim 50%, Christian 40%, indigenous beliefs 10%

Languages: English (official), Hausa, Yoruba, Igbo (Ibo), Fulani

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  57.1%

male:  67.3%

female:  47.3% (1995 est.)



Nigeria    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Federal Republic of Nigeria

conventional short form:  Nigeria

Government type: republic transitioning from military to civilian
rule

Capital: Abuja; note - on 12 December 1991 the capital was
officially transferred from Lagos to Abuja; most federal government
offices have now made the move to Abuja

Administrative divisions: 36 states and 1 territory*; Abia, Abuja
Federal Capital Territory*, Adamawa, Akwa Ibom, Anambra, Bauchi,
Bayelsa, Benue, Borno, Cross River, Delta, Ebonyi, Edo, Ekiti,
Enugu, Gombe, Imo, Jigawa, Kaduna, Kano, Katsina, Kebbi, Kogi,
Kwara, Lagos, Nassarawa, Niger, Ogun, Ondo, Osun, Oyo, Plateau,
Rivers, Sokoto, Taraba, Yobe, Zamfara

Independence: 1 October 1960 (from UK)

National holiday: Independence Day, 1 October (1960)

Constitution: NA 1999 new constitution adopted

Legal system: based on English common law, Islamic Shariah law (only
in some northern states), and traditional law

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Olusegun OBASANJO
(since 29 May 1999); note - the president is both the chief of state
and head of government

head of government:  President Olusegun OBASANJO (since 29 May
1999); note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
government

cabinet:  Federal Executive Council

elections:  president is elected by popular vote for no more than
two four-year terms; election last held 27 February 1999 (next to be
held NA 2003)

election results:  Olusegun OBASANJO elected president; percent of
vote - Olusegun OBASANJO (PDP) 62.8%, Olu FALAE (APP-AD) 37.2%

Legislative branch: bicameral National Assembly consists of Senate
(109 seats, three from each state and one from the Federal Capital
Territory; members elected by popular vote to serve four-year terms)
and House of Representatives (360 seats, members elected by popular
vote to serve four-year terms)

elections:  Senate - last held 20-24 February 1999 (next to be held
NA 2003); House of Representatives - last held 20-24 February 1999
(next to be held NA 2003)

election results:  Senate - percent of vote by party - PDP 58%, APP
23%, AD 19%; seats by party - PDP 67, APP 23, AD 19; House of
Representatives - percent of vote by party - PDP 58%, APP 30%, AD
12%; seats by party - PDP 221, APP 70, AD 69

Judicial branch: Supreme Court (judges appointed by the Provisional
Ruling Council); Federal Court of Appeal (judges are appointed by
the federal government on the advice of the Advisory Judicial
Committee)

Political parties and leaders: All People's Party or APP [Alhaji
Yusuf ALI]; Alliance for Democracy or AD [contested between Yusuf
MAMMAN and Alhasi Adamu ABDULKADIR]; People's Democratic Party or
PDP [Barnabas GEMADE]

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: ACP, AfDB, C, CCC, ECA,
ECOWAS, FAO, G-15, G-19, G-24, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU,
ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat,
Interpol, IOC, ISO, ITU, MINURSO, MONUC, NAM, OAU, OIC, OPCW, OPEC,
PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNIKOM, UNITAR, UNMEE,
UNMIBH, UNMIK, UNMOP, UNMOT, UNTAET, UNU, UPU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO,
WToO, WTrO

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Jibril AMINU

chancery:  1333 16th Street NW, Washington, DC 20036

telephone:  [1] (202) 986-8400

FAX:  [1] (202) 775-1385

consulate(s) general:  Atlanta and New York

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Howard Franklin JETER

embassy:  8 Mambilla Drive, Abuja

mailing address:  P. O. Box 554, Lagos

telephone:  [234] (1) 261-0050, -0078

FAX:  [234] (1) 261-0257

Flag description: three equal vertical bands of green (hoist side),
white, and green



Nigeria    Economy

Economy - overview: The oil-rich Nigerian economy, long hobbled by
political instability, corruption, and poor macroeconomic
management, is undergoing substantial economic reform under the new
civilian administration. Nigeria's former military rulers failed to
diversify the economy away from overdependence on the
capital-intensive oil sector, which provides 20% of GDP, 95% of
foreign exchange earnings, and about 65% of budgetary revenues. The
largely subsistence agricultural sector has failed to keep up with
rapid population growth, and Nigeria, once a large net exporter of
food, now must import food. Following the signing of an IMF stand-by
agreement in August 2000, Nigeria received a debt-restructuring deal
from the Paris Club and a $1 billion loan from the IMF, both
contingent on economic reforms. Increases in foreign investment and
oil production combined with high world oil prices should push
growth over 4% in 2001-02.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $117 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 3.5% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $950 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  40%

industry:  40%

services:  20% (1999 est.)

Population below poverty line: 45% (2000 est.)

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:
1.6%

highest 10%:  40.8% (1996-97)

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 6.5% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 66 million (1999 est.)

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture 70%, industry 10%, services
20% (1999 est.)

Unemployment rate: 28% (1992 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $3.4 billion

expenditures:  $3.6 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
(2000 est.)

Industries: crude oil, coal, tin, columbite, palm oil, peanuts,
cotton, rubber, wood, hides and skins, textiles, cement and other
construction materials, food products, footwear, chemicals,
fertilizer, printing, ceramics, steel

Industrial production growth rate: 1.5% (2000 est.)

Electricity - production: 18.7 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  52.94%

hydro:  47.06%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 17.372 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 19 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: cocoa, peanuts, palm oil, corn, rice,
sorghum, millet, cassava (tapioca), yams, rubber; cattle, sheep,
goats, pigs; timber; fish

Exports: $22.2 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Exports - commodities: petroleum and petroleum products 95%, cocoa,
rubber

Exports - partners: US 36%, India 9%, Spain 8%, Brazil 6%, France
6%, (1999)

Imports: $10.7 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Imports - commodities: machinery, chemicals, transport equipment,
manufactured goods, food and live animals

Imports - partners: UK 11%, Germany 10%, US 9%, France 8%, China 6%
(1999)

Debt - external: $32 billion (2000 est.)

Economic aid - recipient: ODA $250 million (1998)

Currency: naira (NGN)

Currency code: NGN

Exchange rates: nairas per US dollar - 110.005 (January 2001),
101.697 (2000), 92.338 (1999), 21.886 (1998), 21.886 (1997), 21.884
(1996)

Fiscal year: calendar year



Nigeria    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 500,000 (2000)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 26,700 (1997)

Telephone system: general assessment:  an inadequate system, further
limited by poor maintenance; major expansion is required and a start
has been made

domestic:  intercity traffic is carried by coaxial cable, microwave
radio relay, a domestic communications satellite system with 19
earth stations, and a coastal submarine cable; mobile cellular
facilities and the Internet are available

international:  satellite earth stations - 3 Intelsat (2 Atlantic
Ocean and 1 Indian Ocean); coaxial submarine cable SAFE (South
African Far East)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 82, FM 35, shortwave 11 (1998)

Radios: 23.5 million (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 2 government-controlled; note - in
addition, in 1993, 14 licenses to operate private television
stations were granted (1999)

Televisions: 6.9 million (1997)

Internet country code: .ng

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 11 (2000)

Internet users: 100,000 (2000)



Nigeria    Transportation

Railways: total:  3,557 km

narrow gauge:  3,505 km 1.067-m gauge

standard gauge:  52 km 1.435-m gauge

note:  years of neglect of both the rolling stock and the
right-of-way have seriously reduced the capacity and utility of the
system; a project to restore Nigeria's railways is now underway

Highways: total:  194,394 km

paved:  60,068 km (including 1,194 km of expressways)

unpaved:  134,326 km

note:  many of the roads reported as paved may be graveled; because
of poor maintenance and years of heavy freight traffic - in part the
result of the failure of the railroad system - much of the road
system is barely usable (1997)

Waterways: 8,575 km

note:  consisting of the Niger and Benue rivers and smaller rivers
and creeks

Pipelines: crude oil 2,042 km; petroleum products 3,000 km; natural
gas 500 km

Ports and harbors: Calabar, Lagos, Onne, Port Harcourt, Sapele, Warri

Merchant marine: total:  41 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
357,372 GRT/636,254 DWT

ships by type:  bulk 1, cargo 10, chemical tanker 4, petroleum
tanker 24, roll on/roll off 1, specialized tanker 1 (2000 est.)

Airports: 70 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  36

over 3,047 m:  7

2,438 to 3,047 m:  10

1,524 to 2,437 m:  10

914 to 1,523 m:  7

under 914 m:  2 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  34

1,524 to 2,437 m:  2

914 to 1,523 m:  14

under 914 m:  18 (2000 est.)

Heliports: 1 (2000 est.)



Nigeria    Military

Military branches: Army, Navy, Air Force

Military manpower - military age: 18 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  29,940,922 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
17,201,367 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:
1,375,112 (2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $360 million (FY00)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 10% (FY00)



Nigeria    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: delimitation of international boundaries
in the vicinity of Lake Chad, the lack of which led to border
incidents in the past, has been completed and awaits ratification by
Cameroon, Chad, Niger, and Nigeria; dispute with Cameroon over land
and maritime boundaries around the Bakasi Peninsula is currently
before the ICJ; tripartite maritime boundary and economic zone
dispute with Equatorial Guinea and Cameroon is currently before the
ICJ

Illicit drugs: facilitates movement of heroin en route from
Southeast and Southwest Asia to Western Europe and North America;
increasingly a transit route for cocaine from South America intended
for European, East Asian, and North American markets

======================================================================

@Niue





Niue    Introduction

Background: Niue's remoteness, as well as cultural and linguistic
differences between its Polynesian inhabitants and those of the rest
of the Cook Islands, have caused it to be separately administered.
The population of the island continues to drop (from a peak of 5,200
in 1966 to 2,100 in 2000) with substantial emigration to New Zealand.



Niue    Geography

Location: Oceania, island in the South Pacific Ocean, east of Tonga

Geographic coordinates: 19 02 S, 169 52 W

Map references: Oceania

Area: total:  260 sq km

land:  260 sq km

water:  0 sq km

Area - comparative: 1.5 times the size of Washington, DC

Land boundaries: 0 km

Coastline: 64 km

Maritime claims: exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: tropical; modified by southeast trade winds

Terrain: steep limestone cliffs along coast, central plateau

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Pacific Ocean 0 m

highest point:  unnamed location near Mutalau settlement 68 m

Natural resources: fish, arable land

Land use: arable land:  19%

permanent crops:  8%

permanent pastures:  4%

forests and woodland:  19%

other:  50% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: NA sq km

Natural hazards: typhoons

Environment - current issues: increasing attention to
conservationist practices to counter loss of soil fertility from
traditional slash and burn agriculture

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification

signed, but not ratified:  Law of the Sea

Geography - note: one of world's largest coral islands



Niue    People

Population: 2,124 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  NA%

15-64 years:  NA%

65 years and over:  NA%

Population growth rate: 0.5% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: NA births/1,000 population

Death rate: NA deaths/1,000 population

Net migration rate: NA migrant(s)/1,000 population

Infant mortality rate: NA deaths/1,000 live births

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  NA years

male:  NA years

female:  NA years

Total fertility rate: NA children born/woman

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: NA%

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: NA

HIV/AIDS - deaths: NA

Nationality: noun:  Niuean(s)

adjective:  Niuean

Ethnic groups: Polynesian (with some 200 Europeans, Samoans, and
Tongans)

Religions: Ekalesia Niue (Niuean Church - a Protestant church
closely related to the London Missionary Society) 75%, Latter-Day
Saints 10%, other 15% (mostly Roman Catholic, Jehovah's Witnesses,
Seventh-Day Adventist)

Languages: Polynesian closely related to Tongan and Samoan, English

Literacy: definition:  NA

total population:  95%

male:  NA%

female:  NA%



Niue    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  none

conventional short form:  Niue

former:  Savage Island

Dependency status: self-governing in free association with New
Zealand; Niue fully responsible for internal affairs; New Zealand
retains responsibility for external affairs

Government type: self-governing parliamentary democracy

Capital: Alofi

Administrative divisions: none; note - there are no first-order
administrative divisions as defined by the US Government, but there
are 14 villages each with its own village council whose members are
elected and serve three-year terms

Independence: on 19 October 1974, Niue became a self-governing
parliamentary government in free association with New Zealand

National holiday: Waitangi Day (Treaty of Waitangi established
British sovereignty over New Zealand), 6 February (1840)

Constitution: 19 October 1974 (Niue Constitution Act)

Legal system: English common law

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6
February 1952); the UK and New Zealand are represented by New
Zealand High Commissioner John BRYAN (since NA May 2000)

head of government:  Premier Sani LAKATANI (since 1 April 1999)

cabinet:  Cabinet consists of the premier and three ministers

elections:  the monarch is hereditary; premier elected by the
Legislative Assembly for a three-year term; election last held 19
March 1999 (next to be held NA March 2002)

election results:  Sani LAKATANI elected premier; percent of
Legislative Assembly vote - NA%

Legislative branch: unicameral Legislative Assembly (20 seats;
members elected by popular vote to serve three-year terms; six
elected from a common roll and 14 are village representatives)

elections:  last held 19 March 1999 (next to be held NA March 2002)

election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
NPP 9, independents 11

Judicial branch: Supreme Court of New Zealand; High Court of Niue

Political parties and leaders: Niue People's Action Party or NPP
[Sani LAKATANI]

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: ACP, ESCAP (associate),
FAO, Intelsat (nonsignatory user), Sparteca, SPC, SPF, UNESCO, WHO,
WMO

Diplomatic representation in the US: none (self-governing territory
in free association with New Zealand)

Diplomatic representation from the US: none (self-governing
territory in free association with New Zealand)

Flag description: yellow with the flag of the UK in the upper
hoist-side quadrant; the flag of the UK bears five yellow
five-pointed stars - a large one on a blue disk in the center and a
smaller one on each arm of the bold red cross



Niue    Economy

Economy - overview: Government expenditures regularly exceed
revenues, and the shortfall is made up by critically needed grants
from New Zealand that are used to pay wages to public employees.
Niue has cut government expenditures by reducing the public service
by almost half. The agricultural sector consists mainly of
subsistence gardening, although some cash crops are grown for
export. Industry consists primarily of small factories to process
passion fruit, lime oil, honey, and coconut cream. The sale of
postage stamps to foreign collectors is an important source of
revenue. The island in recent years has suffered a serious loss of
population because of migration of Niueans to New Zealand. Efforts
to increase GDP include the promotion of tourism and a financial
services industry.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $4.5 million (1997 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: NA%

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $2,800 (1997 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  NA%

industry:  NA%

services:  NA%

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 1% (1995)

Labor force: 450 (1992 est.)

Labor force - by occupation: most work on family plantations; paid
work exists only in government service, small industry, and the Niue
Development Board

Unemployment rate: NA%

Budget: revenues:  $NA

expenditures:  $NA, including capital expenditures of $NA

Industries: tourism, handicrafts, food processing

Industrial production growth rate: NA%

Electricity - production: 3 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  100%

hydro:  0%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 2.8 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: coconuts, passion fruit, honey, limes, taro,
yams, cassava (tapioca), sweet potatoes; pigs, poultry, beef cattle

Exports: $117,500 (f.o.b., 1989)

Exports - commodities: canned coconut cream, copra, honey, passion
fruit products, pawpaws, root crops, limes, footballs, stamps,
handicrafts

Exports - partners: NZ 89%, Fiji, Cook Islands, Australia

Imports: $4.1 million (c.i.f., 1989)

Imports - commodities: food, live animals, manufactured goods,
machinery, fuels, lubricants, chemicals, drugs

Imports - partners: NZ 59%, Fiji 20%, Japan 13%, Samoa, Australia, US

Debt - external: $NA

Economic aid - recipient: $8.3 million (1995)

Currency: New Zealand dollar (NZD)

Currency code: NZD

Exchange rates: New Zealand dollars per US dollar - 2.2502 (January
2001), 2.1863 (2000), 1.8886 (1999), 1.8629 (1998), 1.5082 (1997),
1.4543 (1996)

Fiscal year: 1 April - 31 March



Niue    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 376 (1991)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 0 (1991)

Telephone system: general assessment:  primitive system

domestic:  single-line telephone system connects all villages on
island

international:  NA

Radio broadcast stations: AM 1, FM 1, shortwave 0 (1998)

Radios: 1,000 (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 1 (1997)

Televisions: NA

Internet country code: .nu

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 1 (2000)

Internet users: NA



Niue    Transportation

Railways: 0 km

Highways: total:  234 km

paved:  86 km

unpaved:  148 km (106 km of which is access and plantation road)
(2001)

Waterways: none

Ports and harbors: none; offshore anchorage only

Merchant marine: none (2000 est.)

Airports: 1 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  1

1,524 to 2,437 m:  1 (2000 est.)



Niue    Military

Military branches: Police Force

Military - note: defense is the responsibility of New Zealand



Niue    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

======================================================================

@Norfolk Island





Norfolk Island    Introduction

Background: Two British attempts at establishing the island as a
penal colony (1788-1814 and 1825-55) were ultimately abandoned. In
1856, the island was resettled by Pitcairn Islanders, descendants of
the Bounty mutineers and their Tahitian companions.



Norfolk Island    Geography

Location: Oceania, island in the South Pacific Ocean, east of
Australia

Geographic coordinates: 29 02 S, 167 57 E

Map references: Oceania

Area: total:  34.6 sq km

land:  34.6 sq km

water:  0 sq km

Area - comparative: about 0.2 times the size of Washington, DC

Land boundaries: 0 km

Coastline: 32 km

Maritime claims: exclusive fishing zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  3 NM

Climate: subtropical, mild, little seasonal temperature variation

Terrain: volcanic formation with mostly rolling plains

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Pacific Ocean 0 m

highest point:  Mount Bates 319 m

Natural resources: fish

Land use: arable land:  0%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  25%

forests and woodland:  0%

other:  75% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: NA sq km

Natural hazards: typhoons (especially May to July)

Environment - current issues: NA



Norfolk Island    People

Population: 1,879 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  NA%

15-64 years:  NA%

65 years and over:  NA%

Population growth rate: -0.71% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: NA births/1,000 population

Death rate: NA deaths/1,000 population

Net migration rate: NA migrant(s)/1,000 population

Infant mortality rate: NA deaths/1,000 live births

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  NA years

male:  NA years

female:  NA years

Total fertility rate: NA children born/woman

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: NA%

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: NA

HIV/AIDS - deaths: NA

Nationality: noun:  Norfolk Islander(s)

adjective:  Norfolk Islander(s)

Ethnic groups: descendants of the Bounty mutineers, Australian, New
Zealander, Polynesians

Religions: Anglican 39%, Roman Catholic 11.7%, Uniting Church in
Australia 16.4%, Seventh-Day Adventist 4.4%, none 9.2%, unknown
16.9%, other 2.4% (1986)

Languages: English (official), Norfolk a mixture of 18th century
English and ancient Tahitian



Norfolk Island    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Territory of Norfolk Island

conventional short form:  Norfolk Island

Dependency status: territory of Australia; Canberra administers
Commonwealth responsibilities on Norfolk Island through the
Department of Environment, Sport, and Territories

Government type: NA

Capital: Kingston

Administrative divisions: none (territory of Australia)

Independence: none (territory of Australia)

National holiday: Pitcairners Arrival Day, 8 June (1856)

Constitution: Norfolk Island Act of 1979

Legal system: based on the laws of Australia, local ordinances and
acts; English common law applies in matters not covered by either
Australian or Norfolk Island law

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6
February 1952); the UK and Australia are represented by
Administrator Anthony J. MESSNER (since 4 August 1997)

head of government:  Assembly President and Chief Minister Ronald
Coane NOBBS (since 23 February 2000)

cabinet:  Executive Council is made up of four of the nine members
of the Legislative Assembly; the council devises government policy
and acts as an advisor to the Administrator

elections:  the monarch is hereditary; administrator appointed by
the governor general of Australia; chief minister elected by the
Legislative Assembly for a term of not more than three years;
election last held 23 February 2000 (next to be held by March 2003)

election results:  Ronald Coane NOBBS elected chief minister;
percent of Legislative Assembly vote - NA%

Legislative branch: unicameral Legislative Assembly (9 seats;
members elected by electors who have nine equal votes each but only
four votes can be given to any one candidate; members serve
three-year terms)

elections:  last held 23 February 2000 (next to be held by March
2003)

election results:  percent of vote - NA%; seats - independents 9

Judicial branch: Supreme Court; Court of Petty Sessions

Political parties and leaders: none

Political pressure groups and leaders: none

International organization participation: none

Diplomatic representation in the US: none (territory of Australia)

Diplomatic representation from the US: none (territory of Australia)

Flag description: three vertical bands of green (hoist side), white,
and green with a large green Norfolk Island pine tree centered in
the slightly wider white band



Norfolk Island    Economy

Economy - overview: Tourism, the primary economic activity, has
steadily increased over the years and has brought a level of
prosperity unusual among inhabitants of the Pacific islands. The
agricultural sector has become self-sufficient in the production of
beef, poultry, and eggs.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $NA

GDP - real growth rate: NA%

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $NA

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  NA%

industry:  NA%

services:  NA%

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): NA%

Labor force: 1,395 (1991 est.)

Labor force - by occupation: tourism NA%, subsistence agriculture NA%

Unemployment rate: NA%

Budget: revenues:  $4.6 million

expenditures:  $4.8 million, including capital expenditures of $NA
(FY92/93)

Industries: tourism

Industrial production growth rate: NA%

Electricity - production: NA kWh

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  NA%

hydro:  NA%

nuclear:  NA%

other:  NA%

Electricity - consumption: NA kWh

Agriculture - products: Norfolk Island pine seed, Kentia palm seed,
cereals, vegetables, fruit; cattle, poultry

Exports: $1.5 million (f.o.b., FY91/92)

Exports - commodities: postage stamps, seeds of the Norfolk Island
pine and Kentia palm, small quantities of avocados

Exports - partners: Australia, other Pacific island countries, NZ,
Asia, Europe

Imports: $17.9 million (c.i.f., FY91/92)

Imports - commodities: NA

Imports - partners: Australia, other Pacific island countries, NZ,
Asia, Europe

Debt - external: $NA

Economic aid - recipient: $NA

Currency: Australian dollar (AUD)

Currency code: AUD

Exchange rates: Australian dollars per US dollar - 1.7995 (January
2001), 1.7173 (2000), 1.5497 (1999), 1.5888 (1998), 1.3439 (1997),
1.2773 (1996)

Fiscal year: 1 July - 30 June



Norfolk Island    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 1,087 (1983)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 0 (1983)

Telephone system: general assessment:  adequate

domestic:  NA

international:  radiotelephone service with Sydney (Australia)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 0, FM 3, shortwave 0 (1998)

Radios: 2,500 (1996)

Television broadcast stations: 1 (local programming station plus two
repeaters that bring in Australian programs by satellite) (1998)

Televisions: 1,200 (1996)

Internet country code: .nf

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 2 (2000)

Internet users: NA



Norfolk Island    Transportation

Railways: 0 km

Highways: total:  80 km

paved:  53 km

unpaved:  27 km (2001)

Waterways: none

Ports and harbors: none; loading jetties at Kingston and Cascade

Merchant marine: none (2000 est.)

Airports: 1 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  1

1,524 to 2,437 m:  1 (2000 est.)



Norfolk Island    Military

Military - note: defense is the responsibility of Australia



Norfolk Island    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

======================================================================

@Northern Mariana Islands





Northern Mariana Islands    Introduction

Background: Under US administration as part of the UN Trust
Territory of the Pacific, the people of the Northern Mariana Islands
decided in the 1970s not to seek independence but instead to forge
closer links with the US. Negotiations for territorial status began
in 1972. A covenant to establish a commonwealth in political union
with the US was approved in 1975. A new government and constitution
went into effect in 1978.



Northern Mariana Islands    Geography

Location: Oceania, islands in the North Pacific Ocean, about
three-quarters of the way from Hawaii to the Philippines

Geographic coordinates: 15 12 N, 145 45 E

Map references: Oceania

Area: total:  477 sq km

land:  477 sq km

water:  0 sq km

note:  includes 14 islands including Saipan, Rota, and Tinian

Area - comparative: 2.5 times the size of Washington, DC

Land boundaries: 0 km

Coastline: 1,482 km

Maritime claims: exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: tropical marine; moderated by northeast trade winds, little
seasonal temperature variation; dry season December to June, rainy
season July to October

Terrain: southern islands are limestone with level terraces and
fringing coral reefs; northern islands are volcanic

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Pacific Ocean 0 m

highest point:  unnamed location on Agrihan 965 m

Natural resources: arable land, fish

Land use: arable land:  21%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  19%

forests and woodland:  0%

other:  60%

Irrigated land: NA sq km

Natural hazards: active volcanoes on Pagan and Agrihan; typhoons
(especially August to November)

Environment - current issues: contamination of groundwater on Saipan
may contribute to disease; clean-up of landfill; protection of
endangered species conflicts with development

Geography - note: strategic location in the North Pacific Ocean



Northern Mariana Islands    People

Population: 74,612 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  23.55% (male 8,929; female 8,639)

15-64 years:  74.72% (male 26,242; female 29,509)

65 years and over:  1.73% (male 639; female 654) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 3.62% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 20.6 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 2.4 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 18 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.06 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.03 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  0.89 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.98 male(s)/female

total population:  0.92 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 5.7 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  75.74 years

male:  72.65 years

female:  79.02 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 1.76 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: NA%

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: NA

HIV/AIDS - deaths: NA

Nationality: noun:  NA

adjective:  NA

Ethnic groups: Chamorro, Carolinians and other Micronesians,
Caucasian, Japanese, Chinese, Korean

Religions: Christian (Roman Catholic majority, although traditional
beliefs and taboos may still be found)

Languages: English, Chamorro, Carolinian

note:  86% of population speaks a language other than English at home

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  97%

male:  97%

female:  96% (1980 est.)



Northern Mariana Islands    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Commonwealth of the Northern
Mariana Islands

conventional short form:  Northern Mariana Islands

former:  Mariana Islands District (Trust Territory of the Pacific
Islands)

Dependency status: commonwealth in political union with the US;
federal funds to the Commonwealth administered by the US Department
of the Interior, Office of Insular Affairs

Government type: commonwealth; self-governing with locally elected
governor, lieutenant governor, and legislature

Capital: Saipan

Administrative divisions: none (commonwealth in political union with
the US); there are no first-order administrative divisions as
defined by the US Government, but there are four municipalities at
the second order; Northern Islands, Rota, Saipan, Tinian

Independence: none (commonwealth in political union with the US)

National holiday: Commonwealth Day, 8 January (1978)

Constitution: Covenant Agreement effective 4 November 1986 and the
Constitution of the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands
effective 1 January 1978

Legal system: based on US system, except for customs, wages,
immigration laws, and taxation

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal; indigenous inhabitants are US
citizens but do not vote in US presidential elections

Executive branch: chief of state:  President George W. BUSH of the
US (since 20 January 2001); Vice President Richard B. CHENEY (since
20 January 2001)

head of government:  Governor Pedro P. TENORIO (since NA January
1998) and Lieutenant Governor Jesus R. SABLAN (since NA January 1998)

cabinet:  NA

elections:  US president and vice president elected on the same
ticket for four-year terms; governor and lieutenant governor elected
on the same ticket by popular vote for four-year terms; election
last held in NA November 1997 (next to be held NA November 2001)

election results:  Pedro P. TENORIO elected governor in a three-way
race; percent of vote - Pedro P. TENORIO (Republican Party) 47%

Legislative branch: bicameral Legislature consists of the Senate (9
seats; members are elected by popular vote to serve four-year
staggered terms) and the House of Representatives (18 seats; members
are elected by popular vote to serve two-year terms)

elections:  Senate - last held 9 November 1999 (next to be held NA
November 2001); House of Representatives - last held 9 November 1999
(next to be held NA November 2001)

election results:  Senate - percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by
party - Republican Party 6, Democratic Party 2, Reform Party 1;
House of Representatives - percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by
party - Republican Party 10, Democratic Party 8

note:  the Commonwealth does not have a nonvoting delegate in the US
Congress; instead, it has an elected official or "resident
representative" located in Washington, DC; seats by party -
Republican Party 1 (Juan N. BABAUTA)

Judicial branch: Commonwealth Supreme Court; Superior Court; Federal
District Court

Political parties and leaders: Democratic Party [Dr. Carlos S.
CAMACHO]; Republican Party [Benigno R. FITIAL]

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: ESCAP (associate),
Interpol (subbureau), SPC

Flag description: blue, with a white, five-pointed star superimposed
on the gray silhouette of a latte stone (a traditional foundation
stone used in building) in the center, surrounded by a wreath



Northern Mariana Islands    Economy

Economy - overview: The economy benefits substantially from
financial assistance from the US. The rate of funding has declined
as locally generated government revenues have grown. The key tourist
industry employs about 50% of the work force and accounts for
roughly one-fourth of GDP. Japanese tourists predominate. Annual
tourist entries have exceeded one-half million in recent years, but
financial difficulties in Japan have caused a temporary slowdown.
The agricultural sector is made up of cattle ranches and small farms
producing coconuts, breadfruit, tomatoes, and melons. Garment
production is by far the most important industry with employment of
12,000 mostly Chinese workers and sizable shipments to the US under
duty and quota exemptions.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $900 million (2000 est.)

note:  GDP numbers reflect US spending

GDP - real growth rate: NA%

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $12,500 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  NA%

industry:  NA%

services:  NA%

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 1.2% (1997 est.)

Labor force: 6,006 total indigenous labor force; 2,699 unemployed;
28,717 foreign workers (1995)

Labor force - by occupation: NA

Unemployment rate: NA%

Budget: revenues:  $221 million

expenditures:  $213 million, including capital expenditures of $17.7
million (1996)

Industries: tourism, construction, garments, handicrafts

Industrial production growth rate: NA%

Electricity - production: NA kWh

Electricity - consumption: NA kWh

Agriculture - products: coconuts, fruits, vegetables; cattle

Exports: $NA

Exports - commodities: garments

Exports - partners: US

Imports: $NA

Imports - commodities: food, construction equipment and materials,
petroleum products

Imports - partners: US, Japan

Debt - external: $NA

Economic aid - recipient: extensive funding from US

Currency: US dollar (USD)

Currency code: USD

Exchange rates: the US dollar is used

Fiscal year: 1 October - 30 September



Northern Mariana Islands    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 21,000 (1996)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 1,200 (1995)

Telephone system: general assessment:  NA

domestic:  NA

international:  satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat (Pacific Ocean)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 2, FM 3, shortwave 1 (1998)

Radios: NA

Television broadcast stations: 1 (on Saipan and one station planned
for Rota; in addition, two cable services on Saipan provide varied
programming from satellite networks) (1997)

Televisions: NA

Internet country code: .mp

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 1 (2000)

Internet users: NA



Northern Mariana Islands    Transportation

Railways: 0 km

Highways: total:  362 km

paved:  NA km

unpaved:  NA km (1991)

Waterways: none

Ports and harbors: Saipan, Tinian

Merchant marine: none (2000 est.)

Airports: 6 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  3

2,438 to 3,047 m:  1

1,524 to 2,437 m:  2 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  3

2,438 to 3,047 m:  1

under 914 m:  2 (2000 est.)

Heliports: 1 (2000 est.)



Northern Mariana Islands    Military

Military - note: defense is the responsibility of the US



Northern Mariana Islands    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

======================================================================

@Norway




Norway    Introduction

Background: Despite its neutrality, Norway was not able to avoid
occupation by Germany in World War II. In 1949, neutrality was
abandoned and Norway became a member of NATO. Discovery of oil and
gas in adjacent waters in the late 1960s boosted Norway's economic
fortunes. The current focus is on containing spending on the
extensive welfare system and planning for the time when petroleum
reserves are depleted. In referenda held in 1972 and 1994, Norway
rejected joining the EU.



Norway    Geography

Location: Northern Europe, bordering the North Sea and the North
Atlantic Ocean, west of Sweden

Geographic coordinates: 62 00 N, 10 00 E

Map references: Europe

Area: total:  324,220 sq km

land:  307,860 sq km

water:  16,360 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly larger than New Mexico

Land boundaries: total:  2,515 km

border countries:  Finland 729 km, Sweden 1,619 km, Russia 167 km

Coastline: 21,925 km (includes mainland 3,419 km, large islands
2,413 km, long fjords, numerous small islands, and minor
indentations 16,093 km)

Maritime claims: contiguous zone:  10 NM

continental shelf:  200 NM

exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  4 NM

Climate: temperate along coast, modified by North Atlantic Current;
colder interior with increased precipitation and colder summers
causing glaciers to grow; rainy year-round on west coast

Terrain: glaciated; mostly high plateaus and rugged mountains broken
by fertile valleys; small, scattered plains; coastline deeply
indented by fjords; arctic tundra in north

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Norwegian Sea 0 m

highest point:  Galdhopiggen 2,469 m

Natural resources: petroleum, copper, natural gas, pyrites, nickel,
iron ore, zinc, lead, fish, timber, hydropower

Land use: arable land:  3%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  0%

forests and woodland:  27%

other:  70% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 970 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: rockslides, avalanches

Environment - current issues: water pollution; acid rain damaging
forests and adversely affecting lakes, threatening fish stocks; air
pollution from vehicle emissions

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Air Pollution,
Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air Pollution-Persistent Organic
Pollutants, Air Pollution-Sulphur 85, Air Pollution-Sulphur 94, Air
Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds, Antarctic-Environmental
Protocol, Antarctic-Marine Living Resources, Antarctic Seals,
Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification,
Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes,
Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer
Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94,
Wetlands, Whaling

signed, but not ratified:  Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds,
Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol

Geography - note: about two-thirds mountains; some 50,000 islands
off its much indented coastline; strategic location adjacent to sea
lanes and air routes in North Atlantic; one of most rugged and
longest coastlines in world; Norway is the only NATO member having a
land boundary with Russia



Norway    People

Population: 4,503,440 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  19.99% (male 462,673; female 437,514)

15-64 years:  64.91% (male 1,482,346; female 1,440,832)

65 years and over:  15.1% (male 282,307; female 397,768) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 0.49% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 12.6 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 9.83 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 2.11 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.07 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.06 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1.03 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.71 male(s)/female

total population:  0.98 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 3.94 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  78.79 years

male:  75.87 years

female:  81.92 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 1.81 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: less than 100 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 1,600 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: 8 (1999)

Nationality: noun:  Norwegian(s)

adjective:  Norwegian

Ethnic groups: Norwegian (Nordic, Alpine, Baltic), Sami 20,000

Religions: Evangelical Lutheran 86% (state church), other Protestant
and Roman Catholic 3%, other 1%, none and unknown 10% (1997)

Languages: Norwegian (official)

note:  small Sami- and Finnish-speaking minorities

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  100%

male:  NA%

female:  NA%



Norway    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Kingdom of Norway

conventional short form:  Norway

local long form:  Kongeriket Norge

local short form:  Norge

Government type: constitutional monarchy

Capital: Oslo

Administrative divisions: 19 provinces (fylker, singular - fylke);
Akershus, Aust-Agder, Buskerud, Finnmark, Hedmark, Hordaland, More
og Romsdal, Nordland, Nord-Trondelag, Oppland, Oslo, Ostfold,
Rogaland, Sogn og Fjordane, Sor-Trondelag, Telemark, Troms,
Vest-Agder, Vestfold

Dependent areas: Bouvet Island, Jan Mayen, Svalbard

Independence: 7 June 1905 Norway declared the union with Sweden
dissolved; 26 October 1905 Sweden agreed to the repeal of the union

National holiday: Constitution Day, 17 May (1814); note - 17 May
1814 is the date of independence from Sweden, 7 June 1905 is the
date Norway declared the union with Sweden was dissolved

Constitution: 17 May 1814, modified in 1884

Legal system: mixture of customary law, civil law system, and common
law traditions; Supreme Court renders advisory opinions to
legislature when asked; accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction, with
reservations

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  King HARALD V (since 17 January
1991); Heir Apparent Crown Prince HAAKON MAGNUS, son of the monarch
(born 20 July 1973)

head of government:  Prime Minister Jens STOLTENBERG (since 17 March
2000)

cabinet:  State Council appointed by the monarch with the approval
of the Parliament

elections:  none; the monarch is hereditary; following parliamentary
elections, the leader of the largest party or leader of a coalition
is usually appointed prime minister by the monarch with the approval
of the Parliament

Legislative branch: modified unicameral Parliament or Storting
which, for certain purposes, divides itself into two chambers (165
seats; members are elected by popular vote by proportional
representation to serve four-year terms)

elections:  last held 15 September 1997 (next to be held 10
September 2001)

election results:  percent of vote by party - Labor Party 35%,
Center Party 7.9%, Conservative Party 14.3%, Christian People's
Party 13.7%, Socialist Left Party 6%, Progress Party 15.3%, Liberal
Party 4.4%, other parties 1.6%; seats by party - Labor Party 65,
Center Party 11, Conservative Party 23, Christian People's Party 25,
Socialist Left Party 9, Progress Party 25, Liberal Party 6, other
parties 1

note:  for certain purposes, the Parliament divides itself into two
chambers and elects one-fourth of its membership to an upper house
or Lagting

Judicial branch: Supreme Court or Hoyesterett (justices appointed by
the monarch)

Political parties and leaders: Center Party [Odd Roger ENOKSEN];
Christian People's Party [Kiell Magne BONDEVIK]; Conservative Party
[Jan PETERSEN]; Labor Party [Jens STOLTENBERG]; Liberal Party [Lars
SPONHEIM]; Progress Party [Carl I. HAGEN]; Socialist Left Party
[Kristin HALVORSEN]

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: AfDB, AsDB, Australia
Group, BIS, CBSS, CCC, CE, CERN, EAPC, EBRD, ECE, EFTA, ESA, FAO,
IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IEA, IFAD, IFC,
IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM,
ISO, ITU, MINURSO, NAM (guest), NATO, NC, NEA, NIB, NSG, OAS
(observer), OECD, OPCW, OSCE, PCA, UN, UN Security Council
(temporary), UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNMEE, UNMIBH, UNMIK,
UNMOP, UNTAET, UNTSO, UPU, WEU (associate), WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTrO, ZC

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Knut VOLLEBAEK

chancery:  2720 34th Street NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone:  [1] (202) 333-6000

FAX:  [1] (202) 337-0870

consulate(s) general:  Houston, Miami, Minneapolis, New York, and
San Francisco

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Robin Chandler DUKE

embassy:  Drammensveien 18, 0244 Oslo

mailing address:  PSC 69, Box 1000, APO AE 09707

telephone:  [47] (22) 44 85 50

FAX:  [47] (22) 43 07 77

Flag description: red with a blue cross outlined in white that
extends to the edges of the flag; the vertical part of the cross is
shifted to the hoist side in the style of the Dannebrog (Danish flag)



Norway    Economy

Economy - overview: The Norwegian economy is a prosperous bastion of
welfare capitalism, featuring a combination of free market activity
and government intervention. The government controls key areas, such
as the vital petroleum sector (through large-scale state
enterprises). The country is richly endowed with natural resources -
petroleum, hydropower, fish, forests, and minerals - and is highly
dependent on its oil production and international oil prices; in
1999, oil and gas accounted for 35% of exports. Only Saudi Arabia
exports more oil than Norway. Oslo opted to stay out of the EU
during a referendum in November 1994. Growth picked up in 2000 to
2.7%, compared to the meager 0.8% of 1999, but may fall back in
2001. The government moved ahead with privatization in 2000, even
proposing the sale of up to one-third of the 100% state-owned oil
company Statoil. Despite their high per capita income and generous
welfare benefits, Norwegians worry about that time in the next two
decades when the oil and gas begin to run out. Accordingly, Norway
has been saving its oil-boosted budget surpluses in a Government
Petroleum Fund, which is invested abroad and now is valued at more
than $43 billion.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $124.1 billion (1999 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 2.7% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $27,700 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  2%

industry:  25%

services:  73% (1999)

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:
4.1%

highest 10%:  21.8% (1995)

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 2.9% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 2.4 million (2000 est.)

Labor force - by occupation: services 74%, industry 22%,
agriculture, forestry, and fishing 4% (1995)

Unemployment rate: 3% (2000 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $71.7 billion

expenditures:  $57.6 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
(2000 est.)

Industries: petroleum and gas, food processing, shipbuilding, pulp
and paper products, metals, chemicals, timber, mining, textiles,
fishing

Industrial production growth rate: 3% (2000 est.)

Electricity - production: 121.084 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  0.63%

hydro:  99.11%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0.26% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 110.795 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 8.28 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 6.467 billion kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: barley, other grains, potatoes; beef, milk;
fish

Exports: $59.2 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Exports - commodities: petroleum and petroleum products, machinery
and equipment, metals, chemicals, ships, fish

Exports - partners: EU 73% (UK 17%, Germany 11%, Netherlands 10%,
Sweden 9%), US 5% (1999)

Imports: $35.2 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Imports - commodities: machinery and equipment, chemicals, metals,
foodstuffs

Imports - partners: EU 66% (Sweden 15%, Germany 12%, UK 9%, Denmark
7%), US 10%, Japan (1999)

Debt - external: $0 (Norway is a net external creditor)

Economic aid - donor: ODA, $1.4 billion (1998)

Currency: Norwegian krone (NOK)

Currency code: NOK

Exchange rates: Norwegian kroner per US dollar - 8.7784 (January
2001), 8.8018 (2000), 7.7992 (1999), 7.5451 (1998), 7.0734 (1997),
6.4498 (1996)

Fiscal year: calendar year



Norway    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 2.735 million (1998)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 2,080,408 (1998)

Telephone system: general assessment:  modern in all respects; one
of the most advanced telecommunications networks in Europe

domestic:  Norway has a domestic satellite system; moreover the
prevalence of rural areas encourages the wide use of cellular mobile
systems instead of fixed wire systems

international:  2 buried coaxial cable systems; 4 coaxial submarine
cables; satellite earth stations - NA Eutelsat, NA Intelsat
(Atlantic Ocean), and 1 Inmarsat (Atlantic and Indian Ocean
regions); note - Norway shares the Inmarsat earth station with the
other Nordic countries (Denmark, Finland, Iceland, and Sweden) (1999)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 5, FM at least 650, shortwave 1 (1998)

Radios: 4.03 million (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 360 (plus 2,729 repeaters) (1995)

Televisions: 2.03 million (1997)

Internet country code: .no

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 13 (2000)

Internet users: 2.36 million (October 2000)



Norway    Transportation

Railways: total:  4,012 km

standard gauge:  4,012 km 1.435-m gauge (2,530 km electrified; 96 km
double track) (1998)

Highways: total:  91,180 km

paved:  67,838 km (including 109 km of expressways)

unpaved:  23,342 km (1999)

Waterways: 1,577 km (along west coast)

note:  navigable by 2.4 m maximum draft vessels

Pipelines: refined petroleum products 53 km

Ports and harbors: Bergen, Drammen, Floro, Hammerfest, Harstad,
Haugesund, Kristiansand, Larvik, Narvik, Oslo, Porsgrunn, Stavanger,
Tromso, Trondheim

Merchant marine: total:  764 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
20,667,370 GRT/32,100,208 DWT

ships by type:  bulk 89, cargo 139, chemical tanker 114, combination
bulk 9, combination ore/oil 37, container 15, liquefied gas 84,
passenger 10, petroleum tanker 151, refrigerated cargo 10, roll
on/roll off 45, short-sea passenger 22, specialized tanker 1,
vehicle carrier 38

note:  includes some foreign-owned ships registered here as a flag
of convenience: Germany 1, Japan 1, Mexico 1, Sweden 1 (2000 est.)

Airports: 103 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  67

over 3,047 m:  1

2,438 to 3,047 m:  12

1,524 to 2,437 m:  12

914 to 1,523 m:  14

under 914 m:  28 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  36

914 to 1,523 m:  5

under 914 m:  31 (2000 est.)

Heliports: 1 (2000 est.)



Norway    Military

Military branches: Norwegian Army, Royal Norwegian Navy (includes
Coast Artillery and Coast Guard), Royal Norwegian Air Force, Home
Guard

Military manpower - military age: 20 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  1,101,384 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
913,534 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  27,341
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $3.113 billion (FY98)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 2.1% (FY98)



Norway    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: territorial claim in Antarctica (Queen
Maud Land); Svalbard is the focus of a maritime boundary dispute
between Norway and Russia

======================================================================

@Oman




Oman    Introduction

Background: In 1970, QABOOS bin Said Al Said ousted his father and
has ruled as sultan ever since. His extensive modernization program
has opened the country to the outside world and has preserved a
long-standing political and military relationship with the UK.
Oman's moderate, independent foreign policy has sought to maintain
good relations with all Middle Eastern countries.



Oman    Geography

Location: Middle East, bordering the Arabian Sea, Gulf of Oman, and
Persian Gulf, between Yemen and UAE

Geographic coordinates: 21 00 N, 57 00 E

Map references: Middle East

Area: total:  212,460 sq km

land:  212,460 sq km

water:  0 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly smaller than Kansas

Land boundaries: total:  1,374 km

border countries:  Saudi Arabia 676 km, UAE 410 km, Yemen 288 km

Coastline: 2,092 km

Maritime claims: contiguous zone:  24 NM

exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: dry desert; hot, humid along coast; hot, dry interior;
strong southwest summer monsoon (May to September) in far south

Terrain: central desert plain, rugged mountains in north and south

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Arabian Sea 0 m

highest point:  Jabal Shams 2,980 m

Natural resources: petroleum, copper, asbestos, some marble,
limestone, chromium, gypsum, natural gas

Land use: arable land:  0%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  5%

forests and woodland:  0%

other:  95% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 580 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: summer winds often raise large sandstorms and dust
storms in interior; periodic droughts

Environment - current issues: rising soil salinity; beach pollution
from oil spills; very limited natural fresh water resources

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Desertification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea,
Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Whaling

signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Geography - note: strategic location on Musandam Peninsula adjacent
to Strait of Hormuz, a vital transit point for world crude oil



Oman    People

Population: 2,622,198

note:  includes 527,078 non-nationals (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  41.51% (male 554,727; female 533,627)

15-64 years:  56.12% (male 894,978; female 576,672)

65 years and over:  2.37% (male 32,863; female 29,331) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 3.43% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 37.96 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 4.1 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 0.48 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1.55 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  1.12 male(s)/female

total population:  1.3 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 22.52 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  72.04 years

male:  69.9 years

female:  74.29 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 6.04 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 0.11% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: NA

HIV/AIDS - deaths: NA

Nationality: noun:  Omani(s)

adjective:  Omani

Ethnic groups: Arab, Baluchi, South Asian (Indian, Pakistani, Sri
Lankan, Bangladeshi), African

Religions: Ibadhi Muslim 75%, Sunni Muslim, Shi'a Muslim, Hindu

Languages: Arabic (official), English, Baluchi, Urdu, Indian dialects

Literacy: definition:  NA

total population:  approaching 80%

male:  NA%

female:  NA%



Oman    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Sultanate of Oman

conventional short form:  Oman

local long form:  Saltanat Uman

local short form:  Uman

former:  Muscat and Oman

Government type: monarchy

Capital: Muscat

Administrative divisions: 6 regions (mintaqat, singular - mintaqah)
and 2 governorates* (muhafazat, singular - muhafazah) Ad Dakhiliyah,
Al Batinah, Al Wusta, Ash Sharqiyah, Az Zahirah, Masqat, Musandam*,
Zufar*; note - the US Embassy in Oman reports that Masqat is a
governorate, but this has not been confirmed by the US Board of
Geographic Names (BGN)

Independence: 1650 (expulsion of the Portuguese)

National holiday: Birthday of Sultan QABOOS, 18 November (1940)

Constitution: none; note - on 6 November 1996, Sultan QABOOS issued
a royal decree promulgating a new basic law which, among other
things, clarifies the royal succession, provides for a prime
minister, bars ministers from holding interests in companies doing
business with the government, establishes a bicameral legislature,
and guarantees basic civil liberties for Omani citizens

Legal system: based on English common law and Islamic law; ultimate
appeal to the monarch; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Suffrage: in Oman's most recent elections in 2000, limited to
approximately 175,000 Omanis chosen by the government to vote in
elections for the Majlis ash-Shura

Executive branch: chief of state:  Sultan and Prime Minister QABOOS
bin Said Al Said (since 23 July 1970); note - the monarch is both
the chief of state and head of government

head of government:  Sultan and Prime Minister QABOOS bin Said Al
Said (since 23 July 1970); note - the monarch is both the chief of
state and head of government

cabinet:  Cabinet appointed by the monarch

elections:  none; the monarch is hereditary

Legislative branch: bicameral Majlis Oman consists of an upper
chamber or Majlis al-Dawla (48 seats; members appointed by the
monarch; has advisory powers only) and a lower chamber or Majlis
al-Shura (83 seats; members elected by limited suffrage, however,
the monarch makes final selections and can negate election results;
body has some limited power to propose legislation, but otherwise
has only advisory powers)

elections:  last held NA September 2000 (next to be held NA
September 2003)

election results:  NA; note - two women were elected for the first
time to Majlis al-Shura, about 100,000 people voted

Judicial branch: Supreme Court

note:  the nascent civil court system, administered by region, has
non-Islamic judges as well as traditional Islamic judges

Political parties and leaders: none

Political pressure groups and leaders: none

International organization participation: ABEDA, AFESD, AL, AMF,
CCC, ESCWA, FAO, G-77, GCC, IBRD, ICAO, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IHO,
ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, ISO
(correspondent), ITU, NAM, OIC, OPCW, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO,
UPU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTrO

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Abdallah bin Muhammad bin Aqil al-DHAHAB

chancery:  2535 Belmont Road, NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone:  [1] (202) 387-1980 through 1981, 1988

FAX:  [1] (202) 745-4933

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
John B. CRAIG

embassy:  Jameat A'Duwal Al Arabiya Street, Al Khuwair area, Muscat

mailing address:  international: P. O. Box 202, Code No. 115,
Medinat Al-Sultan Qaboos, Muscat

telephone:  [968] 698989

FAX:  [968] 699189

Flag description: three horizontal bands of white, red, and green of
equal width with a broad, vertical, red band on the hoist side; the
national emblem (a khanjar dagger in its sheath superimposed on two
crossed swords in scabbards) in white is centered at the top of the
vertical band



Oman    Economy

Economy - overview: Oman's economic performance improved
significantly in 2000 due largely to the upturn in oil prices. The
government is moving ahead with privatization of its utilities, the
development of a body of commercial law to facilitate foreign
investment, and increased budgetary outlays. Oman continues to
liberalize its markets and joined the World Trade Organization
(WTrO) in November 2000.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $19.6 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 4.6% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $7,700 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  3%

industry:  40%

services:  57% (1999 est.)

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): -0.8% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 850,000 (1997 est.)

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture NA%, industry NA%, services
NA%

Unemployment rate: NA%

Budget: revenues:  $4.7 billion

expenditures:  $5.9 billion, including capital expenditures of $490
million (1999)

Industries: crude oil production and refining, natural gas
production, construction, cement, copper

Industrial production growth rate: 4% (2000 est.)

Electricity - production: 8.63 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  100%

hydro:  0%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 8.026 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: dates, limes, bananas, alfalfa, vegetables;
camels, cattle; fish

Exports: $11.1 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Exports - commodities: petroleum, reexports, fish, metals, textiles

Exports - partners: Japan 27%, China 12%, Thailand 18%, UAE 12%,
South Korea 12%, US (1999)

Imports: $4.5 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Imports - commodities: machinery and transport equipment,
manufactured goods, food, livestock, lubricants

Imports - partners: UAE 26% (largely reexports), Japan 16%, UK 9%,
Italy 7%, Germany 6%, US (1999)

Debt - external: $4.5 billion (2000 est.)

Economic aid - recipient: $76.4 million (1995)

Currency: Omani rial (OMR)

Currency code: OMR

Exchange rates: Omani rials per US dollar - 0.3845 (fixed rate since
1986)

Fiscal year: calendar year



Oman    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 201,000 (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 59,822 (1997)

Telephone system: general assessment:  modern system consisting of
open wire, microwave, and radiotelephone communication stations;
limited coaxial cable

domestic:  open wire, microwave, radiotelephone communications, and
a domestic satellite system with 8 earth stations

international:  satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat (Indian Ocean)
and 1 Arabsat

Radio broadcast stations: AM 3, FM 9, shortwave 2 (1999)

Radios: 1.4 million (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 13 (plus 25 low-power repeaters)
(1999)

Televisions: 1.6 million (1997)

Internet country code: .om

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 1 (2000)

Internet users: 50,000 (2000)



Oman    Transportation

Railways: 0 km

Highways: total:  32,800 km

paved:  9,840 km (including 550 km of expressways)

unpaved:  22,960 km (1996)

Waterways: none

Pipelines: crude oil 1,300 km; natural gas 1,030 km

Ports and harbors: Matrah, Mina' al Fahl, Mina' Raysut

Merchant marine: total:  4 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 18,167
GRT/11,307 DWT

ships by type:  cargo 2, passenger 1, passenger/cargo 1 (2000 est.)

Airports: 143 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  6

over 3,047 m:  4

2,438 to 3,047 m:  1

914 to 1,523 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  137

over 3,047 m:  2

2,438 to 3,047 m:  6

1,524 to 2,437 m:  56

914 to 1,523 m:  37

under 914 m:  36 (2000 est.)

Heliports: 1 (2000 est.)



Oman    Military

Military branches: Army, Navy, Air Force, paramilitary (includes
Royal Oman Police)

Military manpower - military age: 14 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  771,919 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
429,811 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  26,469
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $2.4 billion (FY00)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 13% (FY00)



Oman    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: boundary with the UAE has not been
bilaterally defined; northern section in the Musandam Peninsula is
an administrative boundary

======================================================================

@Pacific Ocean

Pacific Ocean    Introduction Top of Page

Background: The Pacific Ocean is the largest of the world's five
oceans (followed by the Atlantic Ocean, Indian Ocean, Southern
Ocean, and Arctic Ocean). Strategically important access waterways
include the La Perouse, Tsugaru, Tsushima, Taiwan, Singapore, and
Torres Straits. The decision by the International Hydrographic
Organization in the spring of 2000 to delimit a fifth ocean, the
Southern Ocean, removed the portion of the Pacific Ocean south of 60
degrees south.



Pacific Ocean    Geography

Location: body of water between the Southern Ocean, Asia, Australia,
and the Western Hemisphere

Geographic coordinates: 0 00 N, 160 00 W

Map references: World

Area: total:  155.557 million sq km

note:  includes Bali Sea, Bering Sea, Bering Strait, Coral Sea, East
China Sea, Flores Sea, Gulf of Alaska, Gulf of Tonkin, Java Sea,
Philippine Sea, Savu Sea, Sea of Japan, Sea of Okhotsk, South China
Sea, Tasman Sea, Timor Sea, and other tributary water bodies

Area - comparative: about 15 times the size of the US; covers about
28% of the global surface; larger than the total land area of the
world

Coastline: 135,663 km

Climate: planetary air pressure systems and resultant wind patterns
exhibit remarkable uniformity in the south and east; trade winds and
westerly winds are well-developed patterns, modified by seasonal
fluctuations; tropical cyclones (hurricanes) may form south of
Mexico from June to October and affect Mexico and Central America;
continental influences cause climatic uniformity to be much less
pronounced in the eastern and western regions at the same latitude
in the North Pacific Ocean; the western Pacific is monsoonal - a
rainy season occurs during the summer months, when moisture-laden
winds blow from the ocean over the land, and a dry season during the
winter months, when dry winds blow from the Asian landmass back to
the ocean; tropical cyclones (typhoons) may strike southeast and
east Asia from May to December

Terrain: surface currents in the northern Pacific are dominated by a
clockwise, warm-water gyre (broad circular system of currents) and
in the southern Pacific by a counterclockwise, cool-water gyre; in
the northern Pacific, sea ice forms in the Bering Sea and Sea of
Okhotsk in winter; in the southern Pacific, sea ice from Antarctica
reaches its northernmost extent in October; the ocean floor in the
eastern Pacific is dominated by the East Pacific Rise, while the
western Pacific is dissected by deep trenches, including the Mariana
Trench, which is the world's deepest

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Challenger Deep in the Mariana
Trench -10,924 m

highest point:  sea level 0 m

Natural resources: oil and gas fields, polymetallic nodules, sand
and gravel aggregates, placer deposits, fish

Natural hazards: surrounded by a zone of violent volcanic and
earthquake activity sometimes referred to as the "Pacific Ring of
Fire"; subject to tropical cyclones (typhoons) in southeast and east
Asia from May to December (most frequent from July to October);
tropical cyclones (hurricanes) may form south of Mexico and strike
Central America and Mexico from June to October (most common in
August and September); cyclical El Nino/La Nina phenomenon occurs in
the equatorial Pacific, influencing weather in the Western
Hemisphere and the western Pacific; ships subject to superstructure
icing in extreme north from October to May; persistent fog in the
northern Pacific can be a maritime hazard from June to December

Environment - current issues: endangered marine species include the
dugong, sea lion, sea otter, seals, turtles, and whales; oil
pollution in Philippine Sea and South China Sea

Geography - note: the major chokepoints are the Bering Strait,
Panama Canal, Luzon Strait, and the Singapore Strait; the Equator
divides the Pacific Ocean into the North Pacific Ocean and the South
Pacific Ocean; dotted with low coral islands and rugged volcanic
islands in the southwestern Pacific Ocean



Pacific Ocean    Economy

Economy - overview: The Pacific Ocean is a major contributor to the
world economy and particularly to those nations its waters directly
touch. It provides low-cost sea transportation between East and
West, extensive fishing grounds, offshore oil and gas fields,
minerals, and sand and gravel for the construction industry. In
1996, over 60% of the world's fish catch came from the Pacific
Ocean. Exploitation of offshore oil and gas reserves is playing an
ever-increasing role in the energy supplies of Australia, NZ, China,
US, and Peru. The high cost of recovering offshore oil and gas,
combined with the wide swings in world prices for oil since 1985,
has slowed but not stopped new drillings.



Pacific Ocean    Transportation

Ports and harbors: Bangkok (Thailand), Hong Kong, Kao-hsiung
(Taiwan), Los Angeles (US), Manila (Philippines), Pusan (South
Korea), San Francisco (US), Seattle (US), Shanghai (China),
Singapore, Sydney (Australia), Vladivostok (Russia), Wellington
(NZ), Yokohama (Japan)

Transportation - note: Inside Passage offers protected waters from
southeast Alaska to Puget Sound (Washington state)



Pacific Ocean    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: some maritime disputes (see littoral
states)

======================================================================

@Pakistan




Pakistan    Introduction

Background: The separation in 1947 of British India into the Muslim
state of Pakistan (with two sections West and East) and largely
Hindu India was never satisfactorily resolved. A third war between
these countries in 1971 resulted in East Pakistan seceding and
becoming the separate nation of Bangladesh. A dispute over the state
of Kashmir is ongoing. In response to Indian nuclear weapons
testing, Pakistan conducted its own tests in 1998.



Pakistan    Geography

Location: Southern Asia, bordering the Arabian Sea, between India on
the east and Iran and Afghanistan on the west and China in the north

Geographic coordinates: 30 00 N, 70 00 E

Map references: Asia

Area: total:  803,940 sq km

land:  778,720 sq km

water:  25,220 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly less than twice the size of California

Land boundaries: total:  6,774 km

border countries:  Afghanistan 2,430 km, China 523 km, India 2,912
km, Iran 909 km

Coastline: 1,046 km

Maritime claims: contiguous zone:  24 NM

continental shelf:  200 NM or to the edge of the continental margin

exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: mostly hot, dry desert; temperate in northwest; arctic in
north

Terrain: flat Indus plain in east; mountains in north and northwest;
Balochistan plateau in west

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Indian Ocean 0 m

highest point:  K2 (Mt. Godwin-Austen) 8,611 m

Natural resources: land, extensive natural gas reserves, limited
petroleum, poor quality coal, iron ore, copper, salt, limestone

Land use: arable land:  27%

permanent crops:  1%

permanent pastures:  6%

forests and woodland:  5%

other:  61% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 171,100 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: frequent earthquakes, occasionally severe
especially in north and west; flooding along the Indus after heavy
rains (July and August)

Environment - current issues: water pollution from raw sewage,
industrial wastes, and agricultural runoff; limited natural fresh
water resources; a majority of the population does not have access
to potable water; deforestation; soil erosion; desertification

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental
Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping,
Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands

signed, but not ratified:  Marine Life Conservation, Nuclear Test Ban

Geography - note: controls Khyber Pass and Bolan Pass, traditional
invasion routes between Central Asia and the Indian Subcontinent



Pakistan    People

Population: 144,616,639 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  40.47% (male 30,131,400; female
28,391,891)

15-64 years:  55.42% (male 40,977,543; female 39,164,663)

65 years and over:  4.11% (male 2,918,872; female 3,032,270) (2001
est.)

Population growth rate: 2.11% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 31.21 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 9.26 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: -0.84 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.06 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.96 male(s)/female

total population:  1.05 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 80.5 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  61.45 years

male:  60.61 years

female:  62.32 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 4.41 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 0.1% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 74,000 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: 6,500 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Pakistani(s)

adjective:  Pakistani

Ethnic groups: Punjabi, Sindhi, Pashtun (Pathan), Baloch, Muhajir
(immigrants from India at the time of partition and their
descendants)

Religions: Muslim 97% (Sunni 77%, Shi'a 20%), Christian, Hindu, and
other 3%

Languages: Punjabi 48%, Sindhi 12%, Siraiki (a Punjabi variant) 10%,
Pashtu 8%, Urdu (official) 8%, Balochi 3%, Hindko 2%, Brahui 1%,
English (official and lingua franca of Pakistani elite and most
government ministries), Burushaski, and other 8%

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  42.7%

male:  55.3%

female:  29% (1998)



Pakistan    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Islamic Republic of Pakistan

conventional short form:  Pakistan

former:  West Pakistan

Government type: federal republic

Capital: Islamabad

Administrative divisions: 4 provinces, 1 territory*, and 1 capital
territory**; Balochistan, Federally Administered Tribal Areas*,
Islamabad Capital Territory**, North-West Frontier Province, Punjab,
Sindh

note:  the Pakistani-administered portion of the disputed Jammu and
Kashmir region includes Azad Kashmir and the Northern Areas

Independence: 14 August 1947 (from UK)

National holiday: Republic Day, 23 March (1956)

Constitution: 10 April 1973, suspended 5 July 1977, restored with
amendments 30 December 1985; suspended 15 October 1999

Legal system: based on English common law with provisions to
accommodate Pakistan's status as an Islamic state; accepts
compulsory ICJ jurisdiction, with reservations

Suffrage: 21 years of age; universal; separate electorates and
reserved parliamentary seats for non-Muslims

Executive branch: note:  following a military takeover on 12 October
1999, Chief of Army Staff and Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff
Committee, Gen. Pervez MUSHARRAF suspended Pakistan's constitution
and assumed the additional title of Chief Executive; exercising the
powers of the head of the government, he appointed an eight-member
National Security Council to function as Pakistan's supreme
governing body; President Mohammad Rafiq TARAR remains the
ceremonial chief of state; on 12 May 2000, Pakistan's Supreme Court
unanimously validated the October 1999 coup and granted MUSHARRAF
executive and legislative authority for three years from the coup
date

chief of state:  President Mohammad Rafiq TARAR (since 31 December
1997)

head of government:  Chief Executive Gen. Pervez MUSHARRAF (since 12
October 1999)

cabinet:  Cabinet appointed by the chief executive

elections:  president elected by Parliament for a five-year term;
election last held 31 December 1997 (next to be held NA 2002);
following legislative elections, the leader of the majority party or
leader of a majority coalition is usually elected prime minister by
the National Assembly; election last held 3 February 1997 (next to
be held NA); note - Gen. Pervez MUSHARRAF overthrew the government
of Prime Minister Mohammad Nawaz SHARIF in the military takeover of
12 October 1999; in May 2000, the Supreme Court validated the
October 1999 coup and set a three-year limit in office for Chief
Executive MUSHARRAF

election results:  Rafiq TARAR elected president; percent of
Parliament and provincial vote - NA%; results are for the last
election for prime minister prior to the military takeover of 12
October 1999 - Mohammad Nawaz SHARIF elected prime minister; percent
of National Assembly vote - NA%

Legislative branch: note - Gen. Pervez MUSHARRAF dissolved
Parliament following the military takeover of 12 October 1999;
bicameral Parliament or Majlis-e-Shoora consists of the Senate (87
seats; members indirectly elected by provincial assemblies to serve
six-year terms; one-third of the members up for election every two
years) and the National Assembly (217 seats - 10 represent
non-Muslims; members elected by popular vote to serve five-year
terms)

elections:  Senate - last held 12 March 1997 (next to be held NA);
National Assembly - last held 3 February 1997 (next to be held NA);
note - no timetable has yet been given for elections following the
military takeover

election results:  Senate - percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by
party - PML/N 30, PPP 17, ANP 7, MQM/A 6, JWP 5, BNP 4, JUI/F 2,
PML/J 2, BNM/M 1, PKMAP 1, TJP 1, independents 6, vacant 5; National
Assembly - percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party - PML/N
137, PPP 18, MQM/A 12, ANP 10, BNP 3, JWP 2, JUI/F 2, PPP/SB 1, NPP
1, independents 21, minorities 10; note - Gen. Pervez MUSHARRAF
dismissed Parliament 15 October 1999

Judicial branch: Supreme Court (justices appointed by the
president); Federal Islamic or Shari'a Court

Political parties and leaders: note:  Gen. Pervez MUSHARRAF
dissolved Parliament following the military takeover of 12 October
1999, however, political parties have been allowed to operate; Awami
National Party or ANP [Wali KHAN]; Balochistan National
Movement/Hayee Group or BNM/H [Dr. HAYEE Baluch]; Baluch National
Party or BNP [Sardar Akhtar MENGAL]; Jamhoori Watan Party or JWP
[Akbar Khan BUGTI]; Jamiat-al-Hadith or JAH [Sajid MIR]; Jamiat
Ulema-i-Islam, Fazlur Rehman faction or JUI/F [Fazlur REHMAN];
Jamiat Ulema-i-Pakistan, Niazi faction or JUP/NI [Abdul Sattar Khan
NIAZI]; Millat Party [Farooq LEGHARI]; Milli Yakjheti Council or MYC
is an umbrella organization which includes Jamaat-i-Islami or JI
[Qazi Hussain AHMED], Jamiat Ulema-i-Islam, Sami-ul-Haq faction or
JUI/S [Sami ul-HAQ], Tehrik-I-Jafria Pakistan or TJP [Allama Sajid
NAQVI], and Jamiat Ulema-i-Pakistan, Noorani faction or JUP/NO [Shah
Ahmad NOORANI]; Mutahida Qaumi Movement, Altaf faction or MQM/A
[Altaf HUSSAIN]; National People's Party or NPP [Ghulam Mustapha
JATOI]; Pakhtun Khwa Milli Awami Party or PKMAP [Mahmood Khan
ACHAKZAI]; Pakhtun Quami Party or PQP [Mohammed AFZAL Khan];
Pakistan Awami Tehrik or PAT [Tahir ul QADRI]; Pakistan Muslim
League, Functional Group or PML/F [Pir PAGARO]; Pakistan Muslim
League, Junejo faction or PML/J [Hamid Nasir CHATTHA]; Pakistan
Muslim League, Nawaz Sharif faction or PML/N [Nawaz SHARIF];
Pakistan National Party or PNP [Hasil BIZENJO]; Pakistan People's
Party or PPP [Benazir BHUTTO]; Pakistan People's Party/Shaheed
Bhutto or PPP/SB [Ghinva BHUTTO]; Pakistan Tehrik-e-Insaaf or PTI
[Imran KHAN]

note:  political alliances in Pakistan can shift frequently

Political pressure groups and leaders: military remains important
political force; ulema (clergy), landowners, industrialists, and
small merchants also influential

International organization participation: AsDB, C (suspended), CCC,
CP, ECO, ESCAP, FAO, G-19, G-24, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU,
ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat,
Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO, ITU, MINURSO, MONUC, NAM, OAS
(observer), OIC, OPCW, PCA, SAARC, UN, UNAMSIL, UNCTAD, UNESCO,
UNHCR, UNIDO, UNIKOM, UNMIBH, UNMIK, UNMOP, UNOMIG, UNTAET, UPU,
WCL, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Maleeha LODHI

chancery:  2315 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone:  [1] (202) 939-6200

FAX:  [1] (202) 387-0484

consulate(s) general:  Los Angeles and New York

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
William B. MILAM

embassy:  Diplomatic Enclave, Ramna 5, Islamabad

mailing address:  P. O. Box 1048, Unit 62200, APO AE 09812-2200

telephone:  [92] (51) 2080-0000

FAX:  [92] (51) 2276427

consulate(s) general:  Karachi

consulate(s):  Lahore, Peshawar

Flag description: green with a vertical white band (symbolizing the
role of religious minorities) on the hoist side; a large white
crescent and star are centered in the green field; the crescent,
star, and color green are traditional symbols of Islam



Pakistan    Economy

Economy - overview: Pakistan is a poor, heavily populated country,
suffering from internal political disputes, lack of foreign
investment, and a costly confrontation with neighboring India.
Pakistan's economic outlook continues to be marred by its weak
foreign exchange position, which relies on international creditors
for hard currency inflows. The MUSHARRAF government will face an
estimated $21 billion in foreign debt coming due in 2000-03, despite
having rescheduled nearly $2 billion in debt with Paris Club
members. Foreign loans and grants provide approximately 25% of
government revenue, but debt service obligations total nearly 50% of
government expenditure. Although Pakistan successfully negotiated a
$600 million IMF Stand-By Arrangement, future loan installments will
be jeopardized if Pakistan misses critical IMF benchmarks on revenue
collection and the fiscal deficit. MUSHARRAF has complied largely
with IMF recommendations to raise petroleum prices, widen the tax
net, privatize public sector assets, and improve the balance of
trade. However, Pakistan's economic prospects remain uncertain; too
little has changed despite the new administration's intentions.
Foreign exchange reserves hover at roughly $1 billion, GDP growth
hinges on crop performance, the import bill has been hammered by
high oil prices, and both foreign and domestic investors remain wary
of committing to projects in Pakistan.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $282 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 4.8% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $2,000 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  25.4%

industry:  24.9%

services:  49.7% (1999 est.)

Population below poverty line: 40% (2000 est.)

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:
4.1%

highest 10%:  27.7% (1996)

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 5.2% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 40 million

note:  extensive export of labor, mostly to the Middle East, and use
of child labor (2000 est.)

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture 44%, industry 17%, services
39% (1999 est.)

Unemployment rate: 6% (FY99/00 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $8.9 billion

expenditures:  $11.6 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
(FY00/01 est.)

Industries: textiles, food processing, beverages, construction
materials, clothing, paper products, shrimp

Industrial production growth rate: 3.8% (1999 est.)

Electricity - production: 62.078 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  63.38%

hydro:  36.51%

nuclear:  0.11%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 57.732 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: cotton, wheat, rice, sugarcane, fruits,
vegetables; milk, beef, mutton, eggs

Exports: $8.6 billion (f.o.b., FY99/00)

Exports - commodities: textiles (garments, cotton cloth, and yarn),
rice, other agricultural products

Exports - partners: US 24%, Hong Kong 7%, UK 7%, Germany 6%, UAE 6%
(FY99/00)

Imports: $9.6 billion (f.o.b., FY99/00)

Imports - commodities: machinery, petroleum, petroleum products,
chemicals, transportation equipment, edible oils, grains, pulses,
flour

Imports - partners: Saudi Arabia 8%, UAE 8%, US 6%, Japan 6%,
Malaysia 4% (FY99/00)

Debt - external: $38 billion (2000 est.)

Economic aid - recipient: $2 billion (FY99/00)

Currency: Pakistani rupee (PKR)

Currency code: PKR

Exchange rates: Pakistani rupees per US dollar - 59.152 (January
2001), 52.814 (2000), 49.118 (1999), 44.943 (1998), 40.918 (1997),
35.909 (1996)

Fiscal year: 1 July - 30 June



Pakistan    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 2.861 million (March 1999)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 158,000 (1998)

Telephone system: general assessment:  the domestic system is
mediocre, but improving; service is adequate for government and
business use, in part because major businesses have established
their own private systems; since 1988, the government has promoted
investment in the national telecommunications system on a priority
basis, significantly increasing network capacity; despite major
improvements in trunk and urban systems, telecommunication services
are still not readily available to the majority of the rural
population

domestic:  microwave radio relay, coaxial cable, fiber-optic cable,
cellular, and satellite networks

international:  satellite earth stations - 3 Intelsat (1 Atlantic
Ocean and 2 Indian Ocean); 3 operational international gateway
exchanges (1 at Karachi and 2 at Islamabad); microwave radio relay
to neighboring countries (1999)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 27, FM 1, shortwave 21 (1998)

Radios: 13.5 million (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 22 (plus seven low-power repeaters)
(1997)

Televisions: 3.1 million (1997)

Internet country code: .pk

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 30 (2000)

Internet users: 1.2 million (2000)



Pakistan    Transportation

Railways: total:  8,163 km

broad gauge:  7,718 km 1.676-m gauge (293 km electrified; 1,037 km
double track)

narrow gauge:  445 km 1.000-m gauge (1996 est.) (2000)

Highways: total:  247,811 km

paved:  141,252 km (including 339 km of expressways)

unpaved:  106,559 km (1998)

Waterways: none

Pipelines: crude oil 250 km; petroleum products 885 km; natural gas
4,044 km (1987)

Ports and harbors: Karachi, Port Muhammad bin Qasim

Merchant marine: total:  17 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
240,605 GRT/367,040 DWT

ships by type:  cargo 13, container 3, petroleum tanker 1 (2000 est.)

Airports: 117 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  82

over 3,047 m:  12

2,438 to 3,047 m:  21

1,524 to 2,437 m:  32

914 to 1,523 m:  14

under 914 m:  3 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  35

1,524 to 2,437 m:  7

914 to 1,523 m:  11

under 914 m:  17 (2000 est.)

Heliports: 8 (2000 est.)



Pakistan    Military

Military branches: Army, Navy, Air Force, Civil Armed Forces,
National Guard

Military manpower - military age: 17 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  35,770,928 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
21,897,366 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:
1,657,723 (2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $2.435 billion (FY99/00)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 3.9% (FY99/00)



Pakistan    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: status of Kashmir with India;
water-sharing problems with India over the Indus River (Wular
Barrage)

Illicit drugs: key transit area for Southwest Asian heroin moving to
Western markets; narcotics still move from Afghanistan into
Balochistan Province

======================================================================

@Palau




Palau    Introduction

Background: After three decades as part of the UN Trust Territory of
the Pacific under US administration, this westernmost cluster of the
Caroline Islands opted for independent status in 1978 rather than
join the Federated States of Micronesia. A Compact of Free
Association with the US was approved in 1986, but not ratified until
1993. It entered into force the following year when the islands
gained their independence.



Palau    Geography

Location: Oceania, group of islands in the North Pacific Ocean,
southeast of the Philippines

Geographic coordinates: 7 30 N, 134 30 E

Map references: Oceania

Area: total:  458 sq km

land:  458 sq km

water:  0 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly more than 2.5 times the size of
Washington, DC

Land boundaries: 0 km

Coastline: 1,519 km

Maritime claims: continental shelf:  200-m depth or to the depth of
exploitation

exclusive fishing zone:  12 NM

extended fishing zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  3 NM

Climate: wet season May to November; hot and humid

Terrain: varying geologically from the high, mountainous main island
of Babelthuap to low, coral islands usually fringed by large barrier
reefs

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Pacific Ocean 0 m

highest point:  Mount Ngerchelchauus 242 m

Natural resources: forests, minerals (especially gold), marine
products, deep-seabed minerals

Land use: arable land:  NA%

permanent crops:  NA%

permanent pastures:  NA%

forests and woodland:  NA%

other:  NA%

Irrigated land: NA sq km

Natural hazards: typhoons (June to December)

Environment - current issues: inadequate facilities for disposal of
solid waste; threats to the marine ecosystem from sand and coral
dredging, illegal fishing practices, and overfishing

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Law
of the Sea

signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Geography - note: includes World War II battleground of Beliliou
(Peleliu) and world-famous rock islands; archipelago of six island
groups totaling over 200 islands in the Caroline chain



Palau    People

Population: 19,092 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  26.88% (male 2,641; female 2,491)

15-64 years:  68.46% (male 7,128; female 5,943)

65 years and over:  4.66% (male 420; female 469) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 1.69% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 19.64 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 7.23 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 4.45 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.06 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.06 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1.2 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.9 male(s)/female

total population:  1.14 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 16.67 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  68.89 years

male:  65.77 years

female:  72.19 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 2.47 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: NA%

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: NA

HIV/AIDS - deaths: NA

Nationality: noun:  Palauan(s)

adjective:  Palauan

Ethnic groups: Palauan (Micronesian with Malayan and Melanesian
admixtures) 70%, Asian (mainly Filipinos, followed by Chinese,
Taiwanese, and Vietnamese) 28%, white 2% (2000 est.)

Religions: Christian (Catholics, Seventh-Day Adventists, Jehovah's
Witnesses, the Assembly of God, the Liebenzell Mission, and
Latter-Day Saints), Modekngei religion (one-third of the population
observes this religion which is indigenous to Palau)

Languages: English and Palauan official in all states except
Sonsoral (Sonsorolese and English are official), Tobi (Tobi and
English are official), and Angaur (Angaur, Japanese, and English are
official)

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  92%

male:  93%

female:  90% (1980 est.)



Palau    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Republic of Palau

conventional short form:  Palau

local long form:  Beluu er a Belau

local short form:  Belau

former:  Palau District (Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands)

Government type: constitutional government in free association with
the US; the Compact of Free Association entered into force 1 October
1994

Capital: Koror; note - a new capital is being built about 20 km
northeast of Koror

Administrative divisions: 18 states; Aimeliik, Airai, Angaur,
Hatobohei, Kayangel, Koror, Melekeok, Ngaraard, Ngarchelong,
Ngardmau, Ngatpang, Ngchesar, Ngeremlengui, Ngiwal, Palau Island,
Peleliu, Sonsoral, Tobi

Independence: 1 October 1994 (from the US-administered UN
Trusteeship)

National holiday: Constitution Day, 9 July (1979)

Constitution: 1 January 1981

Legal system: based on Trust Territory laws, acts of the
legislature, municipal, common, and customary laws

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Tommy Esang REMENGESAU
Jr. (since 19 January 2001) and Vice President Sandra PIERANTOZZI
(since 19 January 2001); note - the president is both the chief of
state and head of government

head of government:  President Tommy Esang REMENGESAU Jr. (since 19
January 2001) and Vice President Sandra PIERANTOZZI (since 19
January 2001); note - the president is both the chief of state and
head of government

cabinet:  Cabinet

elections:  president and vice president elected on separate tickets
by popular vote for four-year terms; election last held 7 November
2000 (next to be held NA November 2004)

election results:  Tommy Esang REMENGESAU Jr. elected president;
percent of vote - Tommy Esang REMENGESAU Jr. 53%, Peter SUGIYAMA
46%; Sandra PIERANTOZZI elected vice president; percent of vote -
Sandra PIERANTOZZI 52%, Alan SEID 45%

Legislative branch: bicameral Parliament or Olbiil Era Kelulau (OEK)
consists of the Senate (16 seats; members elected by popular vote on
a population basis to serve four-year terms) and the House of
Delegates (16 seats; members elected by popular vote to serve
four-year terms)

elections:  Senate - last held 7 November 2000 (next to be held NA
November 2004); House of Delegates - last held 7 November 2000 (next
to be held NA November 2004)

election results:  Senate - percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by
party - NA; House of Delegates - percent of vote by party - NA%;
seats by party - NA

Judicial branch: Supreme Court; National Court; Court of Common Pleas

Political parties and leaders: Palau Nationalist Party [Johnson
TORIBIONG]; Ta Belau Party [Kuniwo NAKAMURA]

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: ACP, ESCAP, FAO, IBRD,
ICAO, ICRM, IDA, IFC, IFRCS, IMF, IOC, Sparteca, SPC, SPF, UN,
UNCTAD, UNESCO, WHO

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Hersey KYOTA

chancery:  1150 18th Street NW, Suite 750, Washington, DC 20036

telephone:  [1] (202) 452-6814

FAX:  [1] (202) 452-6281

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  the
Ambassador to the Philippines is accredited to Palau; Charge
d'Affaires Allen E. NUGENT

embassy:  address NA, Koror

mailing address:  P. O. Box 6028, Republic of Palau 96940

telephone:  [680] 488-2920, 2990

FAX:  [680] 488-2911

Flag description: light blue with a large yellow disk (representing
the moon) shifted slightly to the hoist side



Palau    Economy

Economy - overview: The economy consists primarily of subsistence
agriculture and fishing. The government is the major employer of the
work force, relying heavily on financial assistance from the US. The
population enjoys a per capita income of twice that of the
Philippines and much of Micronesia. Long-run prospects for the
tourist sector have been greatly bolstered by the expansion of air
travel in the Pacific and the rising prosperity of leading East
Asian countries.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $129 million (1998 est.)

note:  GDP numbers reflect US spending

GDP - real growth rate: -1.4% (1998 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $7,100 (1998 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  NA%

industry:  NA%

services:  NA%

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): NA%

Labor force: 8,300 (1999)

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture NA%, industry NA%, services
NA%

Unemployment rate: 2.3% (2000 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $57.7 million

expenditures:  $80.8 million, including capital expenditures of
$17.1 million (FY98/99 est.)

Industries: tourism, craft items (from shell, wood, pearls),
construction, garment making

Industrial production growth rate: NA%

Agriculture - products: coconuts, copra, cassava (tapioca), sweet
potatoes

Exports: $14.3 million (f.o.b., 1996)

Exports - commodities: trochus (type of shellfish), tuna, copra,
handicrafts

Exports - partners: US, Japan

Imports: $126 million (f.o.b., FY99/00)

Imports - commodities: machinery and equipment, fuels, metals;
foodstuffs

Imports - partners: US

Debt - external: $0 (FY99/00)

Economic aid - recipient: $155.8 million (1995); note - the Compact
of Free Association with the US, entered into after the end of the
UN trusteeship on 1 October 1994, will provide Palau with up to $700
million in US aid over 15 years in return for furnishing military
facilities

Currency: US dollar (USD)

Currency code: USD

Exchange rates: the US dollar is used

Fiscal year: 1 October - 30 September



Palau    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 1,500 (1988)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 0 (1988)

Telephone system: general assessment:  NA

domestic:  NA

international:  satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (Pacific Ocean)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 1, FM 0, shortwave 1 (1998)

Radios: 12,000 (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 1 (1997)

Televisions: 11,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .pw

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): NA



Palau    Transportation

Railways: 0 km

Highways: total:  61 km

paved:  36 km

unpaved:  25 km

Waterways: none

Ports and harbors: Koror

Merchant marine: none (2000 est.)

Airports: 3 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  1

1,524 to 2,437 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  2

1,524 to 2,437 m:  2 (2000 est.)



Palau    Military

Military branches: NA

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $NA

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: NA%

Military - note: defense is the responsibility of the US; under a
Compact of Free Association between Palau and the US, the US
military is granted access to the islands for 50 years



Palau    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

======================================================================

@Palmyra Atoll




Palmyra Atoll    Introduction

Background: The Kingdom of Hawaii claimed the atoll in 1862, and the
US included it among the Hawaiian Islands when it annexed the
archipelago in 1898. The Hawaii Statehood Act of 1959 did not
include Palmyra Atoll, which is now privately owned by the Nature
Conservancy. This organization is managing the atoll as a nature
preserve. The lagoons and surrounding waters within the 12 nautical
mile US territorial seas were transferred to the US Fish and
Wildlife service and designated a National Wildlife Refuge in
January 2001.



Palmyra Atoll    Geography

Location: Oceania, atoll in the North Pacific Ocean, about one-half
of the way from Hawaii to American Samoa

Geographic coordinates: 5 52 N, 162 06 W

Map references: Oceania

Area: total:  11.9 sq km

land:  11.9 sq km

water:  0 sq km

Area - comparative: about 20 times the size of The Mall in
Washington, DC

Land boundaries: 0 km

Coastline: 14.5 km

Maritime claims: exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: equatorial, hot, and very rainy

Terrain: very low

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Pacific Ocean 0 m

highest point:  unnamed location 2 m

Natural resources: terrestrial and aquatic wildlife

Land use: arable land:  0%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  0%

forests and woodland:  100%

other:  0%

Irrigated land: 0 sq km (1993)

Natural hazards: NA

Environment - current issues: NA

Geography - note: about 50 islets covered with dense vegetation,
coconut trees, and balsa-like trees up to 30 meters tall



Palmyra Atoll    People

Population: no indigenous inhabitants; 4 to 20 Nature Conservancy
staff, US Fish and Wildlife staff (July 2001 est.)



Palmyra Atoll    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  none

conventional short form:  Palmyra Atoll

Dependency status: incorporated territory of the US; privately
owned, but administered from Washington, DC, by the Fish and
Wildlife Service of the US Department of the Interior

Legal system: the laws of the US, where applicable, apply

Flag description: the flag of the US is used



Palmyra Atoll    Economy

Economy - overview: no economic activity



Palmyra Atoll    Transportation

Highways: much of the road and many causeways built during World War
II are unserviceable and overgrown (2001)

Waterways: none

Ports and harbors: West Lagoon

Airports: 1 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  1

1,524 to 2,437 m:  1 (2000 est.)



Palmyra Atoll    Military

Military - note: defense is the responsibility of the US



Palmyra Atoll    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

======================================================================

@Panama




Panama    Introduction

Background: With US backing, Panama seceded from Colombia in 1903
and promptly signed a treaty with the US allowing for the
construction of a canal and US sovereignty over a strip of land on
either side of the structure (the Panama Canal Zone). The Panama
Canal was built by the US Army Corps of Engineers between 1904 and
1914. On 7 September 1977, an agreement was signed for the complete
transfer of the Canal from the US to Panama by the end of 1999.
Certain portions of the Zone and increasing responsibility over the
Canal were turned over in the intervening years. With US help,
dictator Manuel NORIEGA was deposed in 1989. The entire Panama
Canal, the area supporting the Canal, and remaining US military
bases were turned over to Panama by or on 31 December 1999.



Panama    Geography

Location: Middle America, bordering both the Caribbean Sea and the
North Pacific Ocean, between Colombia and Costa Rica

Geographic coordinates: 9 00 N, 80 00 W

Map references: Central America and the Caribbean

Area: total:  78,200 sq km

land:  75,990 sq km

water:  2,210 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly smaller than South Carolina

Land boundaries: total:  555 km

border countries:  Colombia 225 km, Costa Rica 330 km

Coastline: 2,490 km

Maritime claims: contiguous zone:  24 NM

exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: tropical maritime; hot, humid, cloudy; prolonged rainy
season (May to January), short dry season (January to May)

Terrain: interior mostly steep, rugged mountains and dissected,
upland plains; coastal areas largely plains and rolling hills

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Pacific Ocean 0 m

highest point:  Volcan de Chiriqui 3,475 m

Natural resources: copper, mahogany forests, shrimp, hydropower

Land use: arable land:  7%

permanent crops:  2%

permanent pastures:  20%

forests and woodland:  44%

other:  27% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 320 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: NA

Environment - current issues: water pollution from agricultural
runoff threatens fishery resources; deforestation of tropical rain
forest; land degradation and soil erosion threatens siltation of
Panama Canal

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification,
Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine
Dumping, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution,
Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands

signed, but not ratified:  Marine Life Conservation

Geography - note: strategic location on eastern end of isthmus
forming land bridge connecting North and South America; controls
Panama Canal that links North Atlantic Ocean via Caribbean Sea with
North Pacific Ocean



Panama    People

Population: 2,845,647 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  30.13% (male 436,661; female 420,625)

15-64 years:  63.86% (male 920,787; female 896,520)

65 years and over:  6.01% (male 81,682; female 89,372) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 1.3% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 19.06 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 4.95 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: -1.1 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.04 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1.03 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.91 male(s)/female

total population:  1.02 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 20.18 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  75.68 years

male:  72.94 years

female:  78.53 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 2.27 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 1.54% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 24,000 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: 1,200 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Panamanian(s)

adjective:  Panamanian

Ethnic groups: mestizo (mixed Amerindian and white) 70%, Amerindian
and mixed (West Indian) 14%, white 10%, Amerindian 6%

Religions: Roman Catholic 85%, Protestant 15%

Languages: Spanish (official), English 14%

note:  many Panamanians bilingual

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  90.8%

male:  91.4%

female:  90.2% (1995 est.)



Panama    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Republic of Panama

conventional short form:  Panama

local long form:  Republica de Panama

local short form:  Panama

Government type: constitutional democracy

Capital: Panama

Administrative divisions: 9 provinces (provincias, singular -
provincia) and one territory* (comarca); Bocas del Toro, Chiriqui,
Cocle, Colon, Darien, Herrera, Los Santos, Panama, San Blas*, and
Veraguas

Independence: 3 November 1903 (from Colombia; became independent
from Spain 28 November 1821)

National holiday: Independence Day, 3 November (1903)

Constitution: 11 October 1972; major reforms adopted 1978, 1983 and
1994

Legal system: based on civil law system; judicial review of
legislative acts in the Supreme Court of Justice; accepts compulsory
ICJ jurisdiction, with reservations

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal and compulsory

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Mireya Elisa MOSCOSO
Rodriguez (since 1 September 1999); First Vice President Arturo
Ulises VALLARINO (since 1 September 1999); Second Vice President
Dominador "Kaiser" Baldonero BAZAN Jimenez (since 1 September 1999);
note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
government

head of government:  President Mireya Elisa MOSCOSO Rodriguez (since
1 September 1999); First Vice President Arturo Ulises VALLARINO
(since 1 September 1999); Second Vice President Dominador "Kaiser"
Baldonero BAZAN Jimenez (since 1 September 1999); note - the
president is both the chief of state and head of government

cabinet:  Cabinet appointed by the president

elections:  president and vice presidents elected on the same ticket
by popular vote for five-year terms; election last held 2 May 1999
(next to be held NA May 2004)

election results:  Mireya Elisa MOSCOSO Rodriguez elected president;
percent of vote - Mireya Elisa MOSCOSO Rodriguez (PA) 44%, Martin
TORRIJOS (PRD) 37%

note:  government coalition - PA, MOLIRENA, Democratic Change,
MORENA, PLN, PS

Legislative branch: unicameral Legislative Assembly or Asamblea
Legislativa (71 seats; members are elected by popular vote to serve
five-year terms)

elections:  last held 2 May 1999 (next to be held NA May 2004)

election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
PRD 34, PA 18, PDC 5, PS 4, MOLIRENA 3, PLN 3, Democratic Change 2,
PRC 1, MORENA 1

note:  legislators from outlying rural districts are chosen on a
plurality basis while districts located in more populous towns and
cities elect multiple legislators by means of a proportion-based
formula

Judicial branch: Supreme Court of Justice or Corte Suprema de
Justicia (nine judges appointed for 10-year terms); five superior
courts; three courts of appeal

Political parties and leaders: Arnulfista Party or PA [Mireya Elisa
MOSCOSO Rodriguez]; Christian Democratic Party or PDC [Ruben
AROSEMENA]; Civic Renewal Party or PRC [Serguei DE LA ROSA];
Democratic Change [Ricardo MARTINELLI]; Democratic Revolutionary
Party or PRD [Martin TORRIJOS]; National Liberal Party or PLN [Raul
ARANGO Gasteazopo]; National Renovation Movement or MORENA [Pedro
VALLARINO Cox]; Nationalist Republican Liberal Movement or MOLIRENA
[Ramon MORALES]; Solidarity Party or PS [Samuel LEWIS Galindo]

Political pressure groups and leaders: Chamber of Commerce; National
Civic Crusade; National Council of Organized Workers or CONATO;
National Union of Construction and Similar Workers (SUNTRACS);
National Council of Private Enterprise or CONEP; Panamanian
Association of Business Executives or APEDE; Panamanian
Industrialists Society or SIP; Workers Confederation of the Republic
of Panama or CTRP

International organization participation: CCC, ECLAC, FAO, G-77,
IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO,
IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO, ITU, LAES,
LAIA (observer), NAM, OAS, OPANAL, OPCW, PCA, RG, UN, UNCTAD,
UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Alfredo BOYD

chancery:  2862 McGill Terrace NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone:  [1] (202) 483-1407

consulate(s) general:  Atlanta, Houston, Miami, New Orleans, New
York, Philadelphia, San Francisco, Tampa

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Simon FERRO

embassy:  Avenida Balboa and Calle 37, Apartado 6959, Panama City 5

mailing address:  American Embassy Panama, Unit 0945, APO AA 34002

telephone:  [507] 207-7000

FAX:  [507] 227-1964

Flag description: divided into four, equal rectangles; the top
quadrants are white (hoist side) with a blue five-pointed star in
the center and plain red; the bottom quadrants are plain blue (hoist
side) and white with a red five-pointed star in the center



Panama    Economy

Economy - overview: Panama's economy is based primarily on a
well-developed services sector that accounts for three-fourths of
GDP. Services include the Panama Canal, banking, the Colon Free
Zone, insurance, container ports, flagship registry, and tourism. A
slump in Colon Free Zone and agricultural exports, high oil prices,
and the withdrawal of US military forces held back economic growth
in 2000. The government plans public works programs, tax reforms,
and new regional trade agreements in order to stimulate growth in
2001.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $16.6 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 2.5% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $6,000 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  7%

industry:  16.5%

services:  76.5% (1999 est.)

Population below poverty line: 37% (1999 est.)

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:
1.2%

highest 10%:  35.7% (1997)

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 1.8% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 1.1 million (2000 est.)

note:  shortage of skilled labor, but an oversupply of unskilled
labor

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture 20.8%, industry 18%,
services 61.2% (1995 est.)

Unemployment rate: 13% (2000 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $2.8 billion

expenditures:  $2.9 billion, including capital expenditures of $471
million (2000 est.)

Industries: construction, petroleum refining, brewing, cement and
other construction materials, sugar milling

Industrial production growth rate: 2% (2000 est.)

Electricity - production: 4.413 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  27.78%

hydro:  71.65%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0.57% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 4.049 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 95 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 40 million kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: bananas, rice, corn, coffee, sugarcane,
vegetables; livestock; shrimp

Exports: $5.7 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Exports - commodities: bananas, shrimp, sugar, coffee, clothing

Exports - partners: US 42%, Germany 11%, Costa Rica 5%, Benelux 4%,
Italy 4% (1999)

Imports: $6.9 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Imports - commodities: capital goods, crude oil, foodstuffs,
consumer goods, chemicals

Imports - partners: US 39%, Colon Free Zone 14%, Japan 8%, Ecuador
6%, Mexico 5% (1999)

Debt - external: $7.56 billion (2000 est.)

Economic aid - recipient: $197.1 million (1995)

Currency: balboa (PAB); US dollar (USD)

Currency code: PAB; USD

Exchange rates: balboas per US dollar - 1.000 (fixed rate)

Fiscal year: calendar year



Panama    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 396,000 (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 17,000 (1997)

Telephone system: general assessment:  domestic and international
facilities well developed

domestic:  NA

international:  1 coaxial submarine cable; satellite earth stations
- 2 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean); connected to the Central American
Microwave System

Radio broadcast stations: AM 101, FM 134, shortwave 0 (1998)

Radios: 815,000 (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 38 (including repeaters) (1998)

Televisions: 510,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .pa

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 6 (2000)

Internet users: 45,000 (2000)



Panama    Transportation

Railways: total:  355 km

broad gauge:  76 km 1.524-m gauge

narrow gauge:  279 km 0.914-m gauge

Highways: total:  11,592 km

paved:  4,079 km (including 30 km of expressways)

unpaved:  7,513 km (2000)

Waterways: 882 km

note:  800 km navigable by shallow draft vessels; 82 km Panama Canal

Pipelines: crude oil 130 km (2001)

Ports and harbors: Balboa, Cristobal, Coco Solo, Manzanillo (part of
Colon area), Vacamonte

Merchant marine: total:  4,711 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
111,515,984 GRT/169,655,363 DWT

ships by type:  bulk 1,381, cargo 925, chemical tanker 314,
combination bulk 71, combination ore/oil 18, container 525,
liquefied gas 193, livestock carrier 5, multi-functional large-load
carrier 12, passenger 41, passenger/cargo 4, petroleum tanker 544,
railcar carrier 2, refrigerated cargo 297, roll on/roll off 106,
short-sea passenger 36, specialized tanker 29, vehicle carrier 208

note:  includes some foreign-owned ships registered here as a flag
of convenience: Argentina 11, Australia 1, Austria 1, Bermuda 21,
Belgium 4, The Bahamas 7, Brazil 2, Canada 4, China 154, Chile 4,
Cayman Islands 1, Colombia 6, Cuba 7, Cyprus 4, Denmark 12, Egypt 8,
Ireland 2, Equatorial Guinea 1, Finland 1, France 4, Germany 17,
Greece 248, Hong Kong 158, Honduras 2, Croatia 3, Indonesia 40,
India 11, Iran 1, Israel 3, Italy 7, Japan 1,007, Jordan 2, South
Korea 223, Latvia 4, Lithuania 1, Liberia 2, Monaco 43, Malta 1,
Mexico 5, Malaysia 6, Netherlands 6, Norway 36, Netherlands Antilles
1, Peru 5, Pakistan 1, Portugal 5, Philippines 10, Russia 6, Saudi
Arabia 6, Seychelles 2, South Africa 5, Singapore 73, Spain 35,
Sweden 4, Syria 11, Switzerland 53, UAE 11, Thailand 15, Taiwan 170,
UK 18, US 79, Venezuela 18, Samoa 1 (2000 est.)

Airports: 107 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  42

over 3,047 m:  1

2,438 to 3,047 m:  1

1,524 to 2,437 m:  5

914 to 1,523 m:  13

under 914 m:  22 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  65

914 to 1,523 m:  13

under 914 m:  52 (2000 est.)



Panama    Military

Military branches: an amendment to the Constitution abolished the
armed forces, but there are security forces (Panamanian Public
Forces or PPF includes the Panamanian National Police, National
Maritime Service, and National Air Service)

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  775,966 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
530,916 (2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $128 million (FY99)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 1.3% (FY99)

Military - note: on 10 February 1990, the government of then
President ENDARA abolished Panama's military and reformed the
security apparatus by creating the Panamanian Public Forces; in
October 1994, Panama's Legislative Assembly approved a
constitutional amendment prohibiting the creation of a standing
military force, but allowing the temporary establishment of special
police units to counter acts of "external aggression"



Panama    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

Illicit drugs: major cocaine transshipment point and major drug
money-laundering center; no recent signs of coca cultivation;
monitoring of financial transactions is improving; official
corruption remains a major problem; Panama was cited by the
Financial Action Task Force (FATF) an international organization
that includes the US Government, for its lack of cooperation in the
fight against international money laundering

======================================================================

@Papua New Guinea




Papua New Guinea    Introduction

Background: The eastern half of the island of New Guinea - second
largest in the world - was divided between Germany (north) and the
UK (south) in 1885. The latter area was transferred to Australia in
1902, which occupied the northern portion during World War I and
continued to administer the combined areas until independence in
1975. A nine-year secessionist revolt on the island of Bougainville
ended in 1997, after claiming some 20,000 lives.



Papua New Guinea    Geography

Location: Southeastern Asia, group of islands including the eastern
half of the island of New Guinea between the Coral Sea and the South
Pacific Ocean, east of Indonesia

Geographic coordinates: 6 00 S, 147 00 E

Map references: Oceania

Area: total:  462,840 sq km

land:  452,860 sq km

water:  9,980 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly larger than California

Land boundaries: total:  820 km

border countries:  Indonesia 820 km

Coastline: 5,152 km

Maritime claims: measured from claimed archipelagic baselines

continental shelf:  200-m depth or to the depth of exploitation

exclusive fishing zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: tropical; northwest monsoon (December to March), southeast
monsoon (May to October); slight seasonal temperature variation

Terrain: mostly mountains with coastal lowlands and rolling foothills

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Pacific Ocean 0 m

highest point:  Mount Wilhelm 4,509 m

Natural resources: gold, copper, silver, natural gas, timber, oil,
fisheries

Land use: arable land:  0.1%

permanent crops:  1%

permanent pastures:  0%

forests and woodland:  92.9%

other:  6% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: NA sq km

Natural hazards: active volcanism; situated along the Pacific "Rim
of Fire"; the country is subject to frequent and sometimes severe
earthquakes; mud slides; tsunamis

Environment - current issues: rain forest subject to deforestation
as a result of growing commercial demand for tropical timber;
pollution from mining projects; severe drought

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Antarctic Treaty,
Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species,
Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine
Dumping, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution,
Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands

signed, but not ratified:  Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Climate
Change-Kyoto Protocol

Geography - note: shares island of New Guinea with Indonesia; one of
world's largest swamps along southwest coast



Papua New Guinea    People

Population: 5,049,055 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  38.7% (male 993,248; female 960,647)

15-64 years:  57.63% (male 1,507,064; female 1,402,666)

65 years and over:  3.67% (male 87,779; female 97,651) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 2.43% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 32.15 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 7.88 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.03 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1.07 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.9 male(s)/female

total population:  1.05 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 58.21 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  63.46 years

male:  61.39 years

female:  65.64 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 4.3 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 0.22% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 5,400 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: 450 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Papua New Guinean(s)

adjective:  Papua New Guinean

Ethnic groups: Melanesian, Papuan, Negrito, Micronesian, Polynesian

Religions: Roman Catholic 22%, Lutheran 16%,
Presbyterian/Methodist/London Missionary Society 8%, Anglican 5%,
Evangelical Alliance 4%, Seventh-Day Adventist 1%, other Protestant
10%, indigenous beliefs 34%

Languages: English spoken by 1%-2%, pidgin English widespread, Motu
spoken in Papua region

note:  715 indigenous languages

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  72.2%

male:  81%

female:  62.7% (1995 est.)



Papua New Guinea    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Independent State of Papua
New Guinea

conventional short form:  Papua New Guinea

former:  Territory of Papua and New Guinea

abbreviation:  PNG

Government type: constitutional monarchy with parliamentary democracy

Capital: Port Moresby

Administrative divisions: 20 provinces; Bougainville, Central,
Chimbu, Eastern Highlands, East New Britain, East Sepik, Enga, Gulf,
Madang, Manus, Milne Bay, Morobe, National Capital, New Ireland,
Northern, Sandaun, Southern Highlands, Western, Western Highlands,
West New Britain

Independence: 16 September 1975 (from the Australian-administered UN
trusteeship)

National holiday: Independence Day, 16 September (1975)

Constitution: 16 September 1975

Legal system: based on English common law

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6
February 1952), represented by Governor General Silas ATOPARE (since
13 November 1997)

head of government:  Prime Minister Mekere MORAUTA (since NA August
1999); Deputy Prime Minister Michael OGIO (since 3 November 2000)

cabinet:  National Executive Council appointed by the governor
general on the recommendation of the prime minister

elections:  none; the monarch is hereditary; governor general
appointed by the National Executive Council; prime minister and
deputy prime minister appointed by the governor general for up to
five years on the basis of majority support in National Parliament

Legislative branch: unicameral National Parliament - sometimes
referred to as the House of Assembly (109 seats, 89 elected from
open electorates and 20 from provincial electorates; members elected
by popular vote to serve five-year terms)

elections:  last held 14-28 June 1997 (next to be held NA June 2002)

election results:  percent of vote by party - PPP 15%, Pangu Pati
14%, NA 14%, PDM 8%, PNC 6%, PAP 5%, UP 3%, NP 1%, PUP 1%,
independents 33%; seats by party - PPP 16, Pangu Pati 15, NA 15, PDM
9, PNC 7, PAP 5, UP 3, NP 1, PUP 1, independents 37; note -
association with political parties is very fluid

Judicial branch: Supreme Court (the chief justice is appointed by
the governor general on the proposal of the National Executive
Council after consultation with the minister responsible for
justice; other judges are appointed by the Judicial and Legal
Services Commission)

Political parties and leaders: National Alliance or NA [Michael
SOMARE]; National Party or NP [Michael MEL]; Papua New Guinea United
Party or Pangu Pati [Chris HAIVETA]; People's Action Party or PAP
[Ted DIRO]; People's Democratic Movement or PDM [Sir Mekere
MORAUTA]; People's National Congress or PNC [Simon KAUMI]; People's
Progress Party or PPP [Michael NALI]; People's Unity Party or PUP
[Alfred KAIABE]; United Party or UP [Rimbiuk PATO]

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: ACP, APEC, ARF (dialogue
partner), AsDB, ASEAN (observer), C, CP, ESCAP, FAO, G-77, IBRD,
ICAO, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO,
Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM (observer), ISO (correspondent), ITU,
NAM, OPCW, Sparteca, SPC, SPF, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WFTU,
WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTrO

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Susan JACOBS

chancery:  1779 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20036

telephone:  [1] (202) 745-3680

FAX:  [1] (202) 745-3679

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Arma Jane KARAER

embassy:  Douglas Street, Port Moresby

mailing address:  P. O. Box 1492, Port Moresby

telephone:  [675] 321-1455

FAX:  [675] 321-3423

Flag description: divided diagonally from upper hoist-side corner;
the upper triangle is red with a soaring yellow bird of paradise
centered; the lower triangle is black with five, white, five-pointed
stars of the Southern Cross constellation centered



Papua New Guinea    Economy

Economy - overview: Papua New Guinea is richly endowed with natural
resources, but exploitation has been hampered by the rugged terrain
and the high cost of developing infrastructure. Agriculture provides
a subsistence livelihood for 85% of the population. Mineral
deposits, including oil, copper, and gold, account for 72% of export
earnings. The 3.4% average annual growth rate of GDP during
1979-1998 conceals considerable year-to-year variation resulting
from external economic shocks, natural disasters, and economic
management problems. There has been little growth in the last half
of the 1990s, with real GDP in 1999 barely 3% higher than in 1994,
not enough to compensate for population growth. A new administration
under the leadership of Prime Minister Mekere MORAUTA in July 1999
has promised to restore integrity to state institutions, to
stabilize the kina, to restore stability to the national budget, to
privatize public enterprises where appropriate, and to ensure
ongoing peace on Bougainville. The government has had considerable
success in attracting international support, specifically gaining
the support of the IMF and the World Bank in securing development
assistance loans. Significant challenges remain for MORAUTA,
however, including gaining further investor confidence, specifically
for the proposed Papua New Guinea-Australia oil pipeline, continuing
efforts to privatize government assets, and in maintaining the
support from members of Parliament who after 15 July 2001 can
dismiss him with a vote of no-confidence.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $12.2 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 2.9% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $2,500 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  30%

industry:  35%

services:  35% (1999 est.)

Population below poverty line: 37%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:
1.7%

highest 10%:  40.5% (1996)

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 17% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 1.941 million

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture 85%, industry NA%, services
NA%

Unemployment rate: NA%

Budget: revenues:  $1.6 billion

expenditures:  $1.9 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
(1998 est.)

Industries: copra crushing, palm oil processing, plywood production,
wood chip production; mining of gold, silver, and copper; crude oil
production; construction, tourism

Industrial production growth rate: NA%

Electricity - production: 1.82 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  54.95%

hydro:  45.05%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 1.693 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: coffee, cocoa, coconuts, palm kernels, tea,
rubber, sweet potatoes, fruit, vegetables; poultry, pork

Exports: $2.1 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Exports - commodities: oil, gold, copper ore, logs, palm oil,
coffee, cocoa, crayfish, prawns

Exports - partners: Australia 30%, Japan 12%, Germany 7%, South
Korea 4%, Philippines 3%, UK 3% (1999)

Imports: $1 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Imports - commodities: machinery and transport equipment,
manufactured goods, food, fuels, chemicals

Imports - partners: Australia 53%, Singapore 13%, Japan 6%, US 4%,
New Zealand 4%, Malaysia 4% (1999)

Debt - external: $2.9 billion (2000 est.)

Economic aid - recipient: $400 million (1999 est.)

Currency: kina (PGK)

Currency code: PGK

Exchange rates: kina per US dollar - 2.81 (October 2000), 2.696
(2000), 2.539 (1999), 2.058 (1998), 1.434 (1997), 1.318 (1996)

Fiscal year: calendar year



Papua New Guinea    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 47,000 (1996)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 3,053 (1996)

Telephone system: general assessment:  services are adequate and
being improved; facilities provide radiotelephone and telegraph,
coastal radio, aeronautical radio, and international radio
communication services

domestic:  mostly radiotelephone

international:  submarine cables to Australia and Guam; satellite
earth station - 1 Intelsat (Pacific Ocean); international radio
communication service

Radio broadcast stations: AM 8, FM 19, shortwave 28 (1998)

Radios: 410,000 (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 3 (1997)

Televisions: 42,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .pg

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 3 (2000)

Internet users: 2,000 (2000)



Papua New Guinea    Transportation

Railways: 0 km

Highways: total:  19,600 km

paved:  686 km

unpaved:  18,914 km (1996)

Waterways: 10,940 km

Ports and harbors: Kieta, Lae, Madang, Port Moresby, Rabaul

Merchant marine: total:  20 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
35,361 GRT/51,096 DWT

ships by type:  bulk 1, cargo 9, chemical tanker 1, combination
ore/oil 3, container 1, petroleum tanker 3, roll on/roll off 2 (2000
est.)

Airports: 492 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  20

2,438 to 3,047 m:  2

1,524 to 2,437 m:  13

914 to 1,523 m:  4

under 914 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  472

1,524 to 2,437 m:  13

914 to 1,523 m:  57

under 914 m:  402 (2000 est.)

Heliports: 2 (2000 est.)



Papua New Guinea    Military

Military branches: Papua New Guinea Defense Force (includes Ground,
Naval, and Air Forces, and Special Forces Unit)

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  1,306,159 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
723,012 (2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $42 million (FY98)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 1% (FY98)



Papua New Guinea    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

======================================================================

@Paracel Islands

Paracel Islands    Introduction Top of Page

Background: This archipelago is surrounded by productive fishing
grounds and potentially large oil reserves. In 1932, French
Indochina annexed the islands and set up a weather station on
Prattle Island; maintenance was continued by its successor Vietnam.
China has occupied the Paracel Islands since 1974, when its troops
captured a South Vietnamese garrison occupying the western islands.
However, the islands are still claimed by Vietnam and Taiwan.



Paracel Islands    Geography

Location: Southeastern Asia, group of small islands and reefs in the
South China Sea, about one-third of the way from central Vietnam to
the northern Philippines

Geographic coordinates: 16 30 N, 112 00 E

Map references: Southeast Asia

Area: total:  NA sq km

land:  NA sq km

water:  0 sq km

Area - comparative: NA

Land boundaries: 0 km

Coastline: 518 km

Maritime claims: NA

Climate: tropical

Terrain: mostly low and flat

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  South China Sea 0 m

highest point:  unnamed location on Rocky Island 14 m

Natural resources: none

Land use: arable land:  0%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  0%

forests and woodland:  0%

other:  100%

Irrigated land: 0 sq km (1993)

Natural hazards: typhoons

Environment - current issues: NA



Paracel Islands    People

Population: no indigenous inhabitants

note:  there are scattered Chinese garrisons (July 2001 est.)



Paracel Islands    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  none

conventional short form:  Paracel Islands



Paracel Islands    Economy

Economy - overview: China announced plans in 1997 to open the
islands for tourism.



Paracel Islands    Transportation

Waterways: none

Ports and harbors: small Chinese port facilities on Woody Island and
Duncan Island being expanded

Airports: 1 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  1

1,524 to 2,437 m:  1 (2000 est.)



Paracel Islands    Military

Military - note: occupied by China



Paracel Islands    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: occupied by China, but claimed by Taiwan
and Vietnam

======================================================================

@Paraguay




Paraguay    Introduction

Background: In the disastrous War of the Triple Alliance (1865-70),
Paraguay lost two-thirds of all adult males and much of its
territory. It stagnated economically for the next half century. In
the Chaco War of 1932-35, large, economically important areas were
won from Bolivia. The 35-year military dictatorship of Alfredo
STROESSNER was overthrown in 1989, and, despite a marked increase in
political infighting in recent years, relatively free and regular
presidential elections have been held since then.



Paraguay    Geography

Location: Central South America, northeast of Argentina

Geographic coordinates: 23 00 S, 58 00 W

Map references: South America

Area: total:  406,750 sq km

land:  397,300 sq km

water:  9,450 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly smaller than California

Land boundaries: total:  3,920 km

border countries:  Argentina 1,880 km, Bolivia 750 km, Brazil 1,290
km

Coastline: 0 km (landlocked)

Maritime claims: none (landlocked)

Climate: subtropical to temperate; substantial rainfall in the
eastern portions, becoming semiarid in the far west

Terrain: grassy plains and wooded hills east of Rio Paraguay; Gran
Chaco region west of Rio Paraguay mostly low, marshy plain near the
river, and dry forest and thorny scrub elsewhere

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  junction of Rio Paraguay and Rio
Parana 46 m

highest point:  Cerro Pero (Cerro Tres Kandu) 842 m

Natural resources: hydropower, timber, iron ore, manganese, limestone

Land use: arable land:  6%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  55%

forests and woodland:  32%

other:  7% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 670 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: local flooding in southeast (early September to
June); poorly drained plains may become boggy (early October to June)

Environment - current issues: deforestation (an estimated 2 million
hectares of forest land were lost from 1958-85); water pollution;
inadequate means for waste disposal present health risks for many
urban residents

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification,
Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer
Protection, Wetlands

signed, but not ratified:  Nuclear Test Ban

Geography - note: landlocked; lies between Argentina, Bolivia, and
Brazil



Paraguay    People

Population: 5,734,139 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  38.9% (male 1,133,306; female 1,097,360)

15-64 years:  56.39% (male 1,622,743; female 1,610,659)

65 years and over:  4.71% (male 124,321; female 145,750) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 2.6% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 30.88 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 4.75 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: -0.09 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.03 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1.01 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.85 male(s)/female

total population:  1.01 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 29.78 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  73.92 years

male:  71.44 years

female:  76.52 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 4.11 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 0.11% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 3,000 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: 220 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Paraguayan(s)

adjective:  Paraguayan

Ethnic groups: mestizo (mixed Spanish and Amerindian) 95%

Religions: Roman Catholic 90%, Mennonite, and other Protestant

Languages: Spanish (official), Guarani (official)

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  92.1%

male:  93.5%

female:  90.6% (1995 est.)



Paraguay    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Republic of Paraguay

conventional short form:  Paraguay

local long form:  Republica del Paraguay

local short form:  Paraguay

Government type: constitutional republic

Capital: Asuncion

Administrative divisions: 17 departments (departamentos, singular -
departamento) and one capital city; Alto Paraguay, Alto Parana,
Amambay, Asuncion (city), Boqueron, Caaguazu, Caazapa, Canindeyu,
Central, Concepcion, Cordillera, Guaira, Itapua, Misiones, Neembucu,
Paraguari, Presidente Hayes, San Pedro

Independence: 14 May 1811 (from Spain)

National holiday: Independence Day, 14 May (1811)

Constitution: promulgated 20 June 1992

Legal system: based on Argentine codes, Roman law, and French codes;
judicial review of legislative acts in Supreme Court of Justice

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal and compulsory up to age 75

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Luis GONZALEZ MACCHI
(since 28 March 1999); vice president Julio Cesar FRANCO (since NA
August 2000); note - the president is both the chief of state and
head of government

head of government:  President Luis GONZALEZ MACCHI (since 28 March
1999); vice president Julio Cesar FRANCO (since NA August 2000);
note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
government

cabinet:  Council of Ministers nominated by the president

elections:  president and vice president elected on the same ticket
by popular vote for five-year terms; election last held 10 May 1998
(next to be held NA May 2003)

election results:  Raul CUBAS Grau elected president; percent of
vote - 55.3%; resigned 28 March 1999

note:  President Luis GONZALEZ MACCHI, formerly president of the
Chamber of Senators, constitutionally succeeded President Raul CUBAS
Grau, who resigned after being impeached soon after the
assassination of Vice President Luis Maria ARGANA; the successor to
ARGANA was decided in an election held in August 2000

Legislative branch: bicameral Congress or Congreso consists of the
Chamber of Senators or Camara de Senadores (45 seats; members are
elected by popular vote to serve five-year terms) and the Chamber of
Deputies or Camara de Diputados (80 seats; members are elected by
popular vote to serve five-year terms)

elections:  Chamber of Senators - last held 10 May 1998 (next to be
held NA May 2003); Chamber of Deputies - last held 10 May 1998 (next
to be held NA May 2003)

election results:  Chamber of Senators - percent of vote by party -
NA%; seats by party - Colorado Party 25, PLRA 13, PEN 7; Chamber of
Deputies - percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party - Colorado
Party 45, PLRA 26, PEN 9

Judicial branch: Supreme Court of Justice or Corte Suprema de
Justicia (judges appointed on the proposal of the Counsel of
Magistrates or Consejo de la Magistratura)

Political parties and leaders: Authentic Radical Liberal Party or
PLRA [Miguel Abdon SAGUIER]; Christian Democratic Party or PDC
[Adalina GUITERREZ DE GALEANO]; Febrerista Revolutionary Party or
PRF [Carlos Maria LJUBETIC]; National Encounter or PEN [Euclides
ACEVEDO]; National Republican Association - Colorado Party [acting
president Bader RACHID LICHI]

Political pressure groups and leaders: Ahorristas Estafados or AE;
National Workers Central or CNT; Paraguayan Workers Confederation or
CPT; Roman Catholic Church; Unitary Workers Central or CUT

International organization participation: CCC, ECLAC, FAO, G-77,
IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO,
IMF, IMO, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO (correspondent), ITU,
LAES, LAIA, Mercosur, NAM (observer), OAS, OPANAL, OPCW, PCA, RG,
UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNMEE, UPU, WCL, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO,
WTrO

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Leila RACHID

chancery:  2400 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone:  [1] (202) 483-6960 through 6962

FAX:  [1] (202) 234-4508

consulate(s) general:  Detroit (honorary), Los Angeles, Miami, New
Orleans, New York, San Juan (honorary)

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
David N. GREENLEE

embassy:  1776 Avenida Mariscal Lopez, Casilla Postal 402, Asuncion

mailing address:  Unit 4711, APO AA 34036-0001

telephone:  [595] (21) 213-715

FAX:  [595] (21) 213-728

Flag description: three equal, horizontal bands of red (top), white,
and blue with an emblem centered in the white band; unusual flag in
that the emblem is different on each side; the obverse (hoist side
at the left) bears the national coat of arms (a yellow five-pointed
star within a green wreath capped by the words REPUBLICA DEL
PARAGUAY, all within two circles); the reverse (hoist side at the
right) bears the seal of the treasury (a yellow lion below a red Cap
of Liberty and the words Paz y Justicia (Peace and Justice) capped
by the words REPUBLICA DEL PARAGUAY, all within two circles)



Paraguay    Economy

Economy - overview: Paraguay has a market economy marked by a large
informal sector. The informal sector features both reexport of
imported consumer goods to neighboring countries as well as the
activities of thousands of microenterprises and urban street
vendors. Because of the importance of the informal sector, accurate
economic measures are difficult to obtain. A large percentage of the
population derives their living from agricultural activity, often on
a subsistence basis. The formal economy grew by an average of about
3% annually in 1995-97, but GDP declined slightly in 1998 and 1999.
On a per capita basis, real income has stagnated at 1980 levels.
Most observers attribute Paraguay's poor economic performance to
political uncertainty, corruption, lack of progress on structural
reform, substantial internal and external debt, and deficient
infrastructure. Growth rebounded slightly in 2000.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $26.2 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 1% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $4,750 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  28%

industry:  21%

services:  51% (1999 est.)

Population below poverty line: 36% (2000 est.)

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:
0.7%

highest 10%:  46.6% (1995)

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 8% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 2 million (2000 est.)

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture 45%

Unemployment rate: 16% (2000 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $1.3 billion

expenditures:  $2 billion, including capital expenditures of $700
million (1999 est.)

Industries: sugar, cement, textiles, beverages, wood products

Industrial production growth rate: 0% (2000 est.)

Electricity - production: 51.554 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  0.07%

hydro:  99.79%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0.15% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 1.915 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 46.03 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: cotton, sugarcane, soybeans, corn, wheat,
tobacco, cassava (yucca), fruits, vegetables; beef, pork, eggs,
milk; timber

Exports: $3.5 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Exports - commodities: electricity, soybeans, feed, cotton, meat,
edible oils

Exports - partners: Brazil, Argentina, EU

Imports: $3.3 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Imports - commodities: road vehicles, consumer goods, tobacco,
petroleum products, electrical machinery

Imports - partners: Brazil, US, Argentina, Uruguay, EU, Hong Kong

Debt - external: $3 billion (2000 est.)

Economic aid - recipient: $NA

Currency: guarani (PYG)

Currency code: PYG

Exchange rates: guarani per US dollar - 3,570.0 (January 2001),
3,486.4 (2000), 3,119.1 (1999), 2,726.5 (1998), 2,177.9 (1997),
2,056.8 (1996); note - since early 1998, the exchange rate has
operated as a managed float; prior to that, the exchange rate was
determined freely in the market

Fiscal year: calendar year



Paraguay    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 290,475 (2001)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 510,000 (2001)

Telephone system: general assessment:  meager telephone service;
principal switching center is Asuncion

domestic:  fair microwave radio relay network

international:  satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 46, FM 27, shortwave 6 (three inactive)
(1998)

Radios: 925,000 (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 4 (2001)

Televisions: 990,000 (2001)

Internet country code: .py

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 4 (2000)

Internet users: 20,000 (2000)



Paraguay    Transportation

Railways: total:  971 km

standard gauge:  441 km 1.435-m gauge

narrow gauge:  60 km 1.000-m gauge

note:  there are 470 km of various gauges that are privately owned

Highways: total:  25,901 km

paved:  3,067 km

unpaved:  22,834 km (2001)

Waterways: 3,100 km

Ports and harbors: Asuncion, Villeta, San Antonio, Encarnacion

Merchant marine: total:  20 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
31,066 GRT/35,441 DWT

ships by type:  cargo 14, chemical tanker 1, petroleum tanker 3,
roll on/roll off 2 (2000 est.)

Airports: 915 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  11

over 3,047 m:  3

1,524 to 2,437 m:  4

914 to 1,523 m:  4 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  904

1,524 to 2,437 m:  29

914 to 1,523 m:  340

under 914 m:  535 (2000 est.)



Paraguay    Military

Military branches: Army, Navy (includes Naval Air and Marines), Air
Force

Military manpower - military age: 17 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  1,388,436 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
1,001,516 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  58,359
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $125 million (FY98)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 1.4% (FY98)



Paraguay    Transnational Issues

Illicit drugs: illicit producer of cannabis, most or all of which is
consumed in South America; transshipment country for Andean cocaine
headed for Southern Cone markets and Europe

======================================================================

@Peru




Peru    Introduction

Background: After a dozen years of military rule, Peru returned to
democratic leadership in 1980. In recent years, bold reform programs
and significant progress in curtailing guerrilla activity and drug
trafficking have resulted in solid economic growth.



Peru    Geography

Location: Western South America, bordering the South Pacific Ocean,
between Chile and Ecuador

Geographic coordinates: 10 00 S, 76 00 W

Map references: South America

Area: total:  1,285,220 sq km

land:  1.28 million sq km

water:  5,220 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly smaller than Alaska

Land boundaries: total:  5,536 km

border countries:  Bolivia 900 km, Brazil 1,560 km, Chile 160 km,
Colombia 1,496 km (est.), Ecuador 1,420 km

Coastline: 2,414 km

Maritime claims: continental shelf:  200 NM

territorial sea:  200 NM

Climate: varies from tropical in east to dry desert in west;
temperate to frigid in Andes

Terrain: western coastal plain (costa), high and rugged Andes in
center (sierra), eastern lowland jungle of Amazon Basin (selva)

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Pacific Ocean 0 m

highest point:  Nevado Huascaran 6,768 m

Natural resources: copper, silver, gold, petroleum, timber, fish,
iron ore, coal, phosphate, potash, hydropower

Land use: arable land:  3%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  21%

forests and woodland:  66%

other:  10% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 12,800 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: earthquakes, tsunamis, flooding, landslides, mild
volcanic activity

Environment - current issues: deforestation (some the result of
illegal logging); overgrazing of the slopes of the costa and sierra
leading to soil erosion; desertification; air pollution in Lima;
pollution of rivers and coastal waters from municipal and mining
wastes

Environment - international agreements: party to:
Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic-Marine Living Resources,
Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification,
Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer
Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94,
Wetlands, Whaling

signed, but not ratified:  Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol

Geography - note: shares control of Lago Titicaca, world's highest
navigable lake, with Bolivia



Peru    People

Population: 27,483,864 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  34.41% (male 4,803,464; female 4,654,890)

15-64 years:  60.8% (male 8,408,210; female 8,302,943)

65 years and over:  4.79% (male 603,309; female 711,048) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 1.7% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 23.9 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 5.78 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: -1.08 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.03 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1.01 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.85 male(s)/female

total population:  1.01 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 39.39 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  70.3 years

male:  67.9 years

female:  72.81 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 2.96 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 0.35% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 48,000 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: 4,100 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Peruvian(s)

adjective:  Peruvian

Ethnic groups: Amerindian 45%, mestizo (mixed Amerindian and white)
37%, white 15%, black, Japanese, Chinese, and other 3%

Religions: Roman Catholic 90%

Languages: Spanish (official), Quechua (official), Aymara

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  88.7%

male:  94.5%

female:  83% (1995 est.)



Peru    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Republic of Peru

conventional short form:  Peru

local long form:  Republica del Peru

local short form:  Peru

Government type: constitutional republic

Capital: Lima

Administrative divisions: 24 departments (departamentos, singular -
departamento) and 1 constitutional province* (provincia
constitucional); Amazonas, Ancash, Apurimac, Arequipa, Ayacucho,
Cajamarca, Callao*, Cusco, Huancavelica, Huanuco, Ica, Junin, La
Libertad, Lambayeque, Lima, Loreto, Madre de Dios, Moquegua, Pasco,
Piura, Puno, San Martin, Tacna, Tumbes, Ucayali

note:  the 1979 constitution mandated the creation of regions
(regiones, singular - region) to function eventually as autonomous
economic and administrative entities; so far, 12 regions have been
constituted from 23 of the 24 departments - Amazonas (from Loreto),
Andres Avelino Caceres (from Huanuco, Pasco, Junin), Arequipa (from
Arequipa), Chavin (from Ancash), Grau (from Tumbes, Piura), Inca
(from Cusco, Madre de Dios, Apurimac), La Libertad (from La
Libertad), Los Libertadores-Huari (from Ica, Ayacucho,
Huancavelica), Mariategui (from Moquegua, Tacna, Puno), Nor Oriental
del Maranon (from Lambayeque, Cajamarca, Amazonas), San Martin (from
San Martin), Ucayali (from Ucayali); formation of another region has
been delayed by the reluctance of the constitutional province of
Callao to merge with the department of Lima; because of inadequate
funding from the central government and organizational and political
difficulties, the regions have yet to assume major responsibilities;
the 1993 constitution retains the regions but limits their
authority; the 1993 constitution also reaffirms the roles of
departmental and municipal governments

Independence: 28 July 1821 (from Spain)

National holiday: Independence Day, 28 July (1821)

Constitution: 31 December 1993

Legal system: based on civil law system; has not accepted compulsory
ICJ jurisdiction

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Alejandro TOLEDO (since
28 July 2001); note - the president is both the chief of state and
head of government; additionally two vice presidents are provided
for by the Constitution, First Vice President Raul DIEZ Conseco
(since 28 July 2001) and Second Vice President David WAISMAN (since
28 July 2001)

head of government:  President Alejandro TOLEDO (since 28 July
2001); note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
government; additionally two vice presidents are provided for by the
Constitution, First Vice President Raul DIEZ Conseco (since 28 July
2001) and Second Vice President David WAISMAN (since 28 July 2001)

note:  Prime Minister Roberto DANINO (since 28 July 2001) does not
exercise executive power; this power is in the hands of the president

cabinet:  Council of Ministers appointed by the president

elections:  president elected by popular vote for a five-year term;
special presidential election held 8 April 2001 with runoff election
3 June 2001); next to be held NA 2006

election results:  President TOLEDO elected in runoff election;
percent of vote - Alejandro TOLEDO 53.1%, Alan GARCIA 46.9%

Legislative branch: unicameral Democratic Constituent Congress or
Congresso Constituyente Democratico (120 seats; members are elected
by popular vote to serve five-year terms)

elections:  last held 9 April 2000 (next to be held 8 April 2001)

note:  many congressmen defected to and then from former President
FUJIMORI's coalition in 2000

election results:  percent of vote by party - Peru 2000 42.16%, Peru
Possible 23.34%, FIM 7.56%, Somos Peru 7.2%, APRA 5.5%, others
14.24%; seats by party - Peru 2000 52, Peru Possible 29, FIM 9,
others 30

Judicial branch: Supreme Court of Justice or Corte Suprema de
Justicia (judges are appointed by the National Council of the
Judiciary)

Political parties and leaders: American Popular Revolutionary
Alliance or APRA [Alan GARCIA]; Andean Rebirth [Ciro GALVEZ
Herreria]; Avancemos [leader NA]; Democratic Cause [Jorge
SANTISTEVAN]; Independent Moralizing Front or FIM [Fernando OLIVERA
Vega]; National Solidarity or SN [Luis CASTANEDA Lossio]; National
Unity [Lourdes FLORES Nano]; Peru 2000 [leader NA]; Peru Posible or
PP [Alejandro TOLEDO Maniquez]; Popular Action or AP [leader NA];
Popular Agrarian Front of Peru or Frepap [leader NA]; Popular
Solution [Carlos BOLONA Behr]; Project Country [Mario Antonio
ARRUNATEGUI]; Somos Peru or SP [Alberto ANDRADE]; Union for Peru or
UPP [leader NA]; Vamos Vecinos or VV [Absalon VASQUEZ]

Political pressure groups and leaders: leftist guerrilla groups
include Shining Path [Abimael GUZMAN Reynoso (imprisoned), Gabriel
MACARIO (top leader at-large)]; Tupac Amaru Revolutionary Movement
or MRTA [Victor POLAY (imprisoned), Hugo AVALLENEDA Valdez (top
leader at-large)]

International organization participation: ABEDA, APEC, CAN, CCC,
ECLAC, FAO, G-11, G-15, G-19, G-24, G-77, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO,
ICC, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO,
Inmarsat, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO (correspondent), ITU,
LAES, LAIA, MONUC, NAM, OAS, OPANAL, OPCW, PCA, RG, UN, UNCTAD,
UNESCO, UNIDO, UNMEE, UNTAET, UPU, WCL, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO,
WTrO

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Alfonso RIVERO Monsalve

chancery:  1700 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20036

telephone:  [1] (202) 833-9860 through 9869

FAX:  [1] (202) 659-8124

consulate(s) general:  Chicago, Houston, Los Angeles, Miami, New
York, Paterson (New Jersey), San Francisco

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
John HAMILTON

embassy:  Avenida La Encalada, Cuadra 17s/n, Surco, Lima 33

mailing address:  P. O. Box 1995, Lima 1; American Embassy (Lima),
APO AA 34031-5000

telephone:  [51] (1) 434-3000

FAX:  [51] (1) 434-3037

Flag description: three equal, vertical bands of red (hoist side),
white, and red with the coat of arms centered in the white band; the
coat of arms features a shield bearing a llama, cinchona tree (the
source of quinine), and a yellow cornucopia spilling out gold coins,
all framed by a green wreath



Peru    Economy

Economy - overview: The Peruvian economy has become increasingly
market-oriented, with major privatizations completed since 1990 in
the mining, electricity, and telecommunications industries. Thanks
to strong foreign investment and the cooperation between the
FUJIMORI government and the IMF and World Bank, growth was strong in
1994-97 and inflation was brought under control. In 1998, El Nino's
impact on agriculture, the financial crisis in Asia, and instability
in Brazilian markets undercut growth. And 1999 was another lean year
for Peru, with the aftermath of El Nino and the Asian financial
crisis working its way through the economy. Political instability
resulting from the presidential election and FUJIMORI's subsequent
departure from office limited economic growth in 2000.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $123 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 3.6% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $4,550 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  15%

industry:  42%

services:  43% (1999)

Population below poverty line: 49% (1994 est.)

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:
1.9%

highest 10%:  34.3% (1994)

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 3.7% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 7.6 million (1996 est.)

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture, mining and quarrying,
manufacturing, construction, transport, services

Unemployment rate: 7.7%; extensive underemployment (1997)

Budget: revenues:  $8.5 billion

expenditures:  $9.3 billion, including capital expenditures of $2
billion (1996 est.)

Industries: mining of metals, petroleum, fishing, textiles,
clothing, food processing, cement, auto assembly, steel,
shipbuilding, metal fabrication

Industrial production growth rate: 8.5% (2000 est.)

Electricity - production: 18.886 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  23.04%

hydro:  76.43%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0.53% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 17.565 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 1 million kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: coffee, cotton, sugarcane, rice, wheat,
potatoes, plantains, coca; poultry, beef, dairy products, wool; fish

Exports: $7 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Exports - commodities: fish and fish products, copper, zinc, gold,
crude petroleum and byproducts, lead, coffee, sugar, cotton

Exports - partners: US 29%, EU 25%, Andean Community 6%, Japan 4%,
Mercosur 3% (1999)

Imports: $7.4 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Imports - commodities: machinery, transport equipment, foodstuffs,
petroleum, iron and steel, chemicals, pharmaceuticals

Imports - partners: US 32%, EU 21%, Andean Community 6%, Mercosur
8%, Japan 5% (1999)

Debt - external: $31 billion (2000 est.)

Economic aid - recipient: $895.1 million (1995)

Currency: nuevo sol (PEN)

Currency code: PEN

Exchange rates: nuevo sol per US dollar - 3.5230 (January 2001),
3.4900 (2000), 3.383 (1999), 2.930 (1998), 2.664 (1997), 2.453 (1996)

Fiscal year: calendar year



Peru    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 1.509 million (1998)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 504,995 (1998)

Telephone system: general assessment:  adequate for most requirements

domestic:  nationwide microwave radio relay system and a domestic
satellite system with 12 earth stations

international:  satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat (Atlantic
Ocean); Pan American submarine cable

Radio broadcast stations: AM 472, FM 198, shortwave 189 (1999)

Radios: 6.65 million (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 13 (plus 112 repeaters) (1997)

Televisions: 3.06 million (1997)

Internet country code: .pe

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 10 (2000)

Internet users: 400,000 (2000)



Peru    Transportation

Railways: total:  1,988 km

standard gauge:  1,608 km 1.435-m gauge

narrow gauge:  380 km 0.914-m gauge

Highways: total:  72,900 km

paved:  8,700 km

unpaved:  64,200 km (1999 est.)

Waterways: 8,808 km

note:  8,600 km of navigable tributaries of Amazon system and 208 km
of Lago Titicaca

Pipelines: crude oil 800 km; natural gas and natural gas liquids 64
km

Ports and harbors: Callao, Chimbote, Ilo, Matarani, Paita, Puerto
Maldonado, Salaverry, San Martin, Talara, Iquitos, Pucallpa,
Yurimaguas

note:  Iquitos, Pucallpa, and Yurimaguas are all on the upper
reaches of the Amazon and its tributaries

Merchant marine: total:  6 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 40,623
GRT/61,769 DWT

ships by type:  cargo 5, petroleum tanker 1 (2000 est.)

Airports: 233 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  46

over 3,047 m:  6

2,438 to 3,047 m:  18

1,524 to 2,437 m:  13

914 to 1,523 m:  8

under 914 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  187

over 3,047 m:  1

2,438 to 3,047 m:  1

1,524 to 2,437 m:  25

914 to 1,523 m:  65

under 914 m:  95 (2000 est.)



Peru    Military

Military branches: Army (Ejercito Peruano), Navy (Marina de Guerra
del Peru; includes Naval Air, Marines, and Coast Guard), Air Force
(Fuerza Aerea del Peru), National Police (Policia Nacional)

Military manpower - military age: 20 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  7,205,675 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
4,847,250 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  276,458
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $1 billion (FY00)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 1.9% (FY00)



Peru    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

Illicit drugs: until 1996 the world's largest coca leaf producer,
Peru reduced the area of coca under cultivation by 64% to 34,200
hectares between 1996 and the end of 2000; much of the cocaine base
is shipped to neighboring Colombia for processing into cocaine for
the international drug market; increasing amounts of finished
cocaine, however, are being shipped to Europe or to Brazil and
Bolivia for use in the Southern Cone or transshipped to world markets

======================================================================

@Philippines




Philippines    Introduction

Background: The Philippines were ceded by Spain to the US in 1898
following the Spanish-American War. They attained their independence
in 1946 after being occupied by the Japanese in World War II. The
21-year rule of Ferdinand MARCOS ended in 1986 when a widespread
popular rebellion forced him into exile. In 1992, the US closed down
its last military bases on the islands. The Philippines has had two
electoral presidential transitions since Marcos' removal by "people
power." In January 2001, the Supreme Court declared Joseph ESTRADA
unable to rule in view of mass resignations from his government and
administered the oath of office to Vice President Gloria
MACAPAGAL-ARROYO as his constitutional successor. The government
continues to struggle with ongoing Muslim insurgencies in the south.



Philippines    Geography

Location: Southeastern Asia, archipelago between the Philippine Sea
and the South China Sea, east of Vietnam

Geographic coordinates: 13 00 N, 122 00 E

Map references: Southeast Asia

Area: total:  300,000 sq km

land:  298,170 sq km

water:  1,830 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly larger than Arizona

Land boundaries: 0 km

Coastline: 36,289 km

Maritime claims: continental shelf:  to depth of exploitation

exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  irregular polygon extending up to 100 NM from
coastline as defined by 1898 treaty; since late 1970s has also
claimed polygonal-shaped area in South China Sea up to 285 NM in
breadth

Climate: tropical marine; northeast monsoon (November to April);
southwest monsoon (May to October)

Terrain: mostly mountains with narrow to extensive coastal lowlands

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Philippine Sea 0 m

highest point:  Mount Apo 2,954 m

Natural resources: timber, petroleum, nickel, cobalt, silver, gold,
salt, copper

Land use: arable land:  19%

permanent crops:  12%

permanent pastures:  4%

forests and woodland:  46%

other:  19% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 15,800 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: astride typhoon belt, usually affected by 15 and
struck by five to six cyclonic storms per year; landslides; active
volcanoes; destructive earthquakes; tsunamis

Environment - current issues: uncontrolled deforestation in
watershed areas; soil erosion; air and water pollution in Manila;
increasing pollution of coastal mangrove swamps which are important
fish breeding grounds

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous
Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone
Layer Protection, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands

signed, but not ratified:  Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol



Philippines    People

Population: 82,841,518 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  36.87% (male 15,547,712; female
14,997,544)

15-64 years:  59.45% (male 24,374,849; female 24,873,595)

65 years and over:  3.68% (male 1,355,046; female 1,692,772) (2001
est.)

Population growth rate: 2.03% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 27.37 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 6.04 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: -1.01 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  0.98 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.8 male(s)/female

total population:  0.99 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 28.7 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  67.8 years

male:  64.96 years

female:  70.79 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 3.42 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 0.07% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 28,000 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: 1,200 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Filipino(s)

adjective:  Philippine

Ethnic groups: Christian Malay 91.5%, Muslim Malay 4%, Chinese 1.5%,
other 3%

Religions: Roman Catholic 83%, Protestant 9%, Muslim 5%, Buddhist
and other 3%

Languages: two official languages - Filipino (based on Tagalog) and
English, eight major dialects - Tagalog, Cebuano, Ilocan, Hiligaynon
or Ilonggo, Bicol, Waray, Pampango, and Pangasinense

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  94.6%

male:  95%

female:  94.3% (1995 est.)



Philippines    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Republic of the Philippines

conventional short form:  Philippines

local long form:  Republika ng Pilipinas

local short form:  Pilipinas

Government type: republic

Capital: Manila

Administrative divisions: 73 provinces and 61 chartered cities*;
Abra, Agusan del Norte, Agusan del Sur, Aklan, Albay, Angeles*,
Antique, Aurora, Bacolod*, Bago*, Baguio*, Bais*, Basilan, Basilan
City*, Bataan, Batanes, Batangas, Batangas City*, Benguet, Bohol,
Bukidnon, Bulacan, Butuan*, Cabanatuan*, Cadiz*, Cagayan, Cagayan de
Oro*, Calbayog*, Caloocan*, Camarines Norte, Camarines Sur,
Camiguin, Canlaon*, Capiz, Catanduanes, Cavite, Cavite City*, Cebu,
Cebu City*, Cotabato*, Dagupan*, Danao*, Dapitan*, Davao City*
Davao, Davao del Sur, Davao Oriental, Dipolog*, Dumaguete*, Eastern
Samar, General Santos*, Gingoog*, Ifugao, Iligan*, Ilocos Norte,
Ilocos Sur, Iloilo, Iloilo City*, Iriga*, Isabela, Kalinga-Apayao,
La Carlota*, Laguna, Lanao del Norte, Lanao del Sur, Laoag*,
Lapu-Lapu*, La Union, Legaspi*, Leyte, Lipa*, Lucena*, Maguindanao,
Mandaue*, Manila*, Marawi*, Marinduque, Masbate, Mindoro Occidental,
Mindoro Oriental, Misamis Occidental, Misamis Oriental, Mountain,
Naga*, Negros Occidental, Negros Oriental, North Cotabato, Northern
Samar, Nueva Ecija, Nueva Vizcaya, Olongapo*, Ormoc*, Oroquieta*,
Ozamis*, Pagadian*, Palawan, Palayan*, Pampanga, Pangasinan, Pasay*,
Puerto Princesa*, Quezon, Quezon City*, Quirino, Rizal, Romblon,
Roxas*, Samar, San Carlos* (in Negros Occidental), San Carlos* (in
Pangasinan), San Jose*, San Pablo*, Silay*, Siquijor, Sorsogon,
South Cotabato, Southern Leyte, Sultan Kudarat, Sulu, Surigao*,
Surigao del Norte, Surigao del Sur, Tacloban*, Tagaytay*,
Tagbilaran*, Tangub*, Tarlac, Tawitawi, Toledo*, Trece Martires*,
Zambales, Zamboanga*, Zamboanga del Norte, Zamboanga del Sur

Independence: 4 July 1946 (from US)

National holiday: Independence Day (from Spain), 12 June (1898);
note - 12 June 1898 is the date of independence from Spain, 4 July
1946 is the date of independence from the US

Constitution: 2 February 1987, effective 11 February 1987

Legal system: based on Spanish and Anglo-American law; accepts
compulsory ICJ jurisdiction, with reservations

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Gloria MACAPAGAL-ARROYO
(since 20 January 2001); note - the president is both the chief of
state and head of government

head of government:  President Gloria MACAPAGAL-ARROYO (since 20
January 2001); note - the president is both the chief of state and
head of government

cabinet:  Cabinet appointed by the president with the consent of the
Commission of Appointments

elections:  president and vice president elected on separate tickets
by popular vote for six-year terms; election last held 11 May 1998
(next to be held 16 May 2004)

election results:  results of the last presidential election -
Joseph Ejercito ESTRADA elected president; percent of vote -
approximately 40%; Gloria MACAPAGAL-ARROYO elected vice president;
percent of vote - NA%; note - on 20 January 2001, Vice President
Gloria MACAPAGAL-ARROYO was sworn in as the constitutional successor
to President Joseph ESTRADA after the Supreme Court declared that
President ESTRADA was unable to rule in view of the mass
resignations from his government; according to the Constitution,
only in cases of death, permanent disability, removal from office,
or resignation of the president, can the vice president serve for
the unexpired term

Legislative branch: bicameral Congress or Kongreso consists of the
Senate or Senado (24 seats - one-half elected every three years;
members elected by popular vote to serve six-year terms) and the
House of Representatives or Kapulungan Ng Mga Kinatawan (204 seats;
members elected by popular vote to serve three-year terms; note -
additional members may be appointed by the president but the
Constitution prohibits the House of Representatives from having more
than 250 members)

elections:  Senate - last held 11 May 1998 (next to be held 14 May
2001); House of Representatives - elections last held 11 May 1998
(next to be held 14 May 2001)

election results:  Senate - percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by
party - LAMP 12, Lakas 5, PRP 2, LP 1, other 3; note - the Senate
now has only 22 members with one seat vacated when Gloria
MACAPAGAL-ARROYO became vice president and another seat vacated upon
a senator's death; the two seats can only be filled by election and
will remain open until the next regular election in May 2001; House
of Representatives - percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party
- LAMP 135, Lakas 37, LP 13, Aksyon Demokratiko 1, other 35

Judicial branch: Supreme Court (justices are appointed for four-year
terms by the president on the recommendation of the Judicial and Bar
Council)

Political parties and leaders: People Power Coalition or PPC
includes: Aksyon Demokratiko or Democratic Action [Raul ROCO],
Lakas-NUCD [Gloria MACAPAGAL-ARROYO, titular head, Teofisto
GUINGONA, party president], Liberal Party or LP [Florencio ABAD],
Probinsiya Muna Development Initiative or Promdi [Lito OSMENA], and
Reporma Party [Renato DE VILLA]; Puwersa ng Masa (Force of the
Masses) includes: Laban Ng Demokratikong Pilipino (Struggle of
Filipino Democrats) or LDP [Eduardo ANGARA], Laban Ng Masang
Pilipino or LAMP (Struggle of the Filipino Masses) [Joseph ESTRADA],
and People's Reform Party or PRP [Miriam DEFENSOR-SANTIAGO];
Kilusang Bagong Lipunan (New Society Movement) [Imelda MARCOS];
Nacionalista Party [Jose OLIVEROS]; National People's Coalition or
NPC [Eduardo COJUANGCO]

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: APEC, ARF, AsDB, ASEAN,
CCC, CP, ESCAP, FAO, G-24, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, ICRM,
IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat,
Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO, ITU, NAM, OAS (observer), OPCW, UN, UNCTAD,
UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNMIK, UNTAET, UNU, UPU, WCL, WFTU, WHO, WIPO,
WMO, WToO, WTrO

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
(vacant); Acting Ambassador Ariel ABADILLA

chancery:  1600 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20036

telephone:  [1] (202) 467-9300

FAX:  [1] (202) 467-9317

consulate(s) general:  Chicago, Honolulu, Los Angeles, New York, San
Francisco

consulate(s):  San Diego

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
(vacant); Charge d'Affairs Michael E. MALINOWSKI

embassy:  1201 Roxas Boulevard, Ermita 1000 Manila

mailing address:  FPO 96515

telephone:  [63] (2) 523-1001

FAX:  [63] (2) 522-4361

Flag description: two equal horizontal bands of blue (top) and red
with a white equilateral triangle based on the hoist side; in the
center of the triangle is a yellow sun with eight primary rays (each
containing three individual rays) and in each corner of the triangle
is a small yellow five-pointed star



Philippines    Economy

Economy - overview: In 1998 the Philippine economy - a mixture of
agriculture, light industry, and supporting services - deteriorated
as a result of spillover from the Asian financial crisis and poor
weather conditions. Growth fell to about -0.5% in 1998 from 5% in
1997, but recovered to about 3% in 1999 and 3.6% in 2000. The
government has promised to continue its economic reforms to help the
Philippines match the pace of development in the newly
industrialized countries of East Asia. The strategy includes
improving infrastructure, overhauling the tax system to bolster
government revenues, moving toward further deregulation and
privatization of the economy, and increasing trade integration with
the region.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $310 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 3.6% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $3,800 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  20%

industry:  32%

services:  48% (1997 est.)

Population below poverty line: 41% (1997 est.)

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:
1.5%

highest 10%:  39.3% (1998)

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 5% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 48.1 million (2000 est.)

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture 39.8%, government and
social services 19.4%, services 17.7%, manufacturing 9.8%,
construction 5.8%, other 7.5% (1998 est.)

Unemployment rate: 10% (2000)

Budget: revenues:  $14.5 billion

expenditures:  $12.6 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
(1998 est.)

Industries: textiles, pharmaceuticals, chemicals, wood products,
food processing, electronics assembly, petroleum refining, fishing

Industrial production growth rate: 4% (2000 est.)

Electricity - production: 40.745 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  61.03%

hydro:  18.68%

nuclear:  0%

other:  20.29% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 37.893 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: rice, coconuts, corn, sugarcane, bananas,
pineapples, mangoes; pork, eggs, beef; fish

Exports: $38 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Exports - commodities: electronic equipment, machinery and transport
equipment, garments, coconut products

Exports - partners: US 34%, Japan 14%, Netherlands 8%, Singapore 6%,
UK 6%, Hong Kong 4% (1998)

Imports: $35 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Imports - commodities: raw materials and intermediate goods, capital
goods, consumer goods, fuels

Imports - partners: US 22%, Japan 20%, South Korea 8%, Singapore 6%,
Taiwan 5%, Hong Kong 4% (1998 est.)

Debt - external: $52 billion (1999)

Economic aid - recipient: ODA, $1.1 billion (1998)

Currency: Philippine peso (PHP)

Currency code: PHP

Exchange rates: Philippine pesos per US dollar - 50.969 (January
2001), 44.192 (2000), 39.089 (1999), 40.893 (1998), 29.471 (1997),
26.216 (1996)

Fiscal year: calendar year



Philippines    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 1.9 million (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 1.959 million (1998)

Telephone system: general assessment:  good international
radiotelephone and submarine cable services; domestic and
interisland service adequate

domestic:  domestic satellite system with 11 earth stations

international:  9 international gateways; satellite earth stations -
3 Intelsat (1 Indian Ocean and 2 Pacific Ocean); submarine cables to
Hong Kong, Guam, Singapore, Taiwan, and Japan

Radio broadcast stations: AM 366, FM 290, shortwave 3 (1999)

Radios: 11.5 million (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 31 (1997)

Televisions: 3.7 million (1997)

Internet country code: .ph

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 33 (2000)

Internet users: 500,000 (2000)



Philippines    Transportation

Railways: total:  492 km (an additional 405 km are not in operation)

narrow gauge:  492 km 1.067-m gauge (1996)

Highways: total:  199,950 km

paved:  39,590 km

unpaved:  160,360 km (1998 est.)

Waterways: 3,219 km

note:  limited to vessels with a draft of less than 1.5 m

Pipelines: petroleum products 357 km

Ports and harbors: Batangas, Cagayan de Oro, Cebu, Davao, Guimaras
Island, Iligan, Iloilo, Jolo, Legaspi, Manila, Masao, Puerto
Princesa, San Fernando, Subic Bay, Zamboanga

Merchant marine: total:  459 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
5,653,062 GRT/8,512,326 DWT

ships by type:  bulk 149, cargo 123, chemical tanker 4, combination
bulk 10, container 5, liquefied gas 13, livestock carrier 10,
passenger 4, passenger/cargo 12, petroleum tanker 42, refrigerated
cargo 21, roll on/roll off 17, short-sea passenger 31, specialized
tanker 2, vehicle carrier 16

note:  includes some foreign-owned ships registered here as a flag
of convenience: Cyprus 1, Denmark 1, Hong Kong 5, Japan 14,
Netherlands 1, Singapore 1, UK 1 (2000 est.)

Airports: 288 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  76

over 3,047 m:  4

2,438 to 3,047 m:  5

1,524 to 2,437 m:  28

914 to 1,523 m:  28

under 914 m:  11 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  212

2,438 to 3,047 m:  1

1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

914 to 1,523 m:  81

under 914 m:  129 (2000 est.)

Heliports: 1 (2000 est.)



Philippines    Military

Military branches: Army, Navy (includes Coast Guard and Marine
Corps), Air Force

Military manpower - military age: 20 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  21,220,191 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
14,942,363 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  848,181
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $995 million (FY98)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 1.5% (FY98)



Philippines    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: involved in a complex dispute over the
Spratly Islands with China, Malaysia, Taiwan, Vietnam, and possibly
Brunei; claim to Malaysia's Sabah State has not been fully revoked

Illicit drugs: exports locally produced marijuana and hashish to
East Asia, the US, and other Western markets; serves as a transit
point for heroin and crystal methamphetamine

======================================================================

@Pitcairn Islands





Pitcairn Islands    Introduction

Background: Pitcairn Island was discovered in 1767 by the British
and settled in 1790 by the Bounty mutineers and their Tahitian
companions. Pitcairn was the first Pacific island to become a
British colony (in 1838) and today remains the last vestige of that
empire in the South Pacific. Outmigration, primarily to New Zealand,
has thinned the population from a peak of 233 in 1937 to about 50
today.



Pitcairn Islands    Geography

Location: Oceania, islands in the South Pacific Ocean, about
one-half of the way from Peru to New Zealand

Geographic coordinates: 25 04 S, 130 06 W

Map references: Oceania

Area: total:  47 sq km

land:  47 sq km

water:  0 sq km

Area - comparative: about 0.3 times the size of Washington, DC

Land boundaries: 0 km

Coastline: 51 km

Maritime claims: exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  3 NM

Climate: tropical, hot, humid; modified by southeast trade winds;
rainy season (November to March)

Terrain: rugged volcanic formation; rocky coastline with cliffs

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Pacific Ocean 0 m

highest point:  Pawala Valley Ridge 347 m

Natural resources: miro trees (used for handicrafts), fish

note:  manganese, iron, copper, gold, silver, and zinc have been
discovered offshore

Land use: arable land:  NA%

permanent crops:  NA%

permanent pastures:  NA%

forests and woodland:  NA%

other:  NA%

Irrigated land: NA sq km

Natural hazards: typhoons (especially November to March)

Environment - current issues: deforestation (only a small portion of
the original forest remains because of burning and clearing for
settlement)



Pitcairn Islands    People

Population: 47 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  NA%

15-64 years:  NA%

65 years and over:  NA%

Population growth rate: -2.08% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: NA births/1,000 population

Death rate: NA deaths/1,000 population

Net migration rate: NA migrant(s)/1,000 population

Infant mortality rate: NA deaths/1,000 live births

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  NA years

male:  NA years

female:  NA years

Total fertility rate: NA children born/woman

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: NA%

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: NA

HIV/AIDS - deaths: NA

Nationality: noun:  Pitcairn Islander(s)

adjective:  Pitcairn Islander

Ethnic groups: descendants of the Bounty mutineers and their
Tahitian wives

Religions: Seventh-Day Adventist 100%

Languages: English (official), Pitcairnese (mixture of an 18th
century English dialect and a Tahitian dialect)



Pitcairn Islands    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Pitcairn, Henderson, Ducie,
and Oeno Islands

conventional short form:  Pitcairn Islands

Dependency status: overseas territory of the UK

Government type: NA

Capital: Adamstown

Administrative divisions: none (overseas territory of the UK)

Independence: none (overseas territory of the UK)

National holiday: Birthday of Queen ELIZABETH II, second Saturday in
June (1926)

Constitution: 1838; reformed 1904 with additional reforms in 1940;
further refined by the Local Government Ordinance of 1964

Legal system: local island by-laws

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal with three years residency

Executive branch: chief of state:  Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6
February 1952), represented by UK High Commissioner to New Zealand
and Governor (nonresident) of the Pitcairn Islands Martin WILLIAMS
(since NA May 1998); Commissioner (nonresident) Leon SALT (since NA;
is the liaison person between the governor and the Island Council)

head of government:  Island Magistrate and Chairman of the Island
Council Jay WARREN (since NA)

cabinet:  NA

elections:  the monarch is hereditary; high commissioner and
commissioner appointed by the monarch; island magistrate elected
every three years in December by popular vote for a three-year term;
last election held NA December 1999 (next to be held NA December
2002)

election results:  Lea BROWN elected island magistrate; percent of
vote - NA%

Legislative branch: unicameral Island Council (10 seats - 6 elected
by popular vote, 1 appointed by the 6 elected members, 2 appointed
by the governor, and 1 seat for the Island Secretary; members serve
one-year terms)

elections:  take place each December; last held NA December 2000
(next to be held NA December 2001)

election results:  percent of vote - NA%; seats - all independents

Judicial branch: Island Court (island magistrate presides over the
court and is elected every three years)

Political parties and leaders: none

Political pressure groups and leaders: none

International organization participation: SPC

Diplomatic representation in the US: none (overseas territory of the
UK)

Diplomatic representation from the US: none (overseas territory of
the UK)

Flag description: blue with the flag of the UK in the upper
hoist-side quadrant and the Pitcairn Islander coat of arms centered
on the outer half of the flag; the coat of arms is yellow, green,
and light blue with a shield featuring a yellow anchor



Pitcairn Islands    Economy

Economy - overview: The inhabitants of this tiny economy exist on
fishing, subsistence farming, handicrafts, and postage stamps. The
fertile soil of the valleys produces a wide variety of fruits and
vegetables, including citrus, sugarcane, watermelons, bananas, yams,
and beans. Bartering is an important part of the economy. The major
sources of revenue are the sale of postage stamps to collectors and
the sale of handicrafts to passing ships.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $NA

GDP - real growth rate: NA%

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $NA

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  NA%

industry:  NA%

services:  NA%

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): NA%

Labor force: 12 able-bodied men (1997)

Labor force - by occupation: no business community in the usual
sense; some public works; subsistence farming and fishing

Unemployment rate: NA%

Budget: revenues:  $729,884

expenditures:  $878,119, including capital expenditures of $NA
(FY94/95 est.)

Industries: postage stamps, handicrafts

Industrial production growth rate: NA%

Electricity - production: NA kWh; note - electric power is provided
by a small diesel-powered generator

Electricity - consumption: NA kWh

Agriculture - products: wide variety of fruits and vegetables,
goats, chickens

Exports: $NA

Exports - commodities: fruits, vegetables, curios, stamps

Exports - partners: NA

Imports: $NA

Imports - commodities: fuel oil, machinery, building materials,
flour, sugar, other foodstuffs

Imports - partners: NA

Debt - external: $NA

Economic aid - recipient: $NA

Currency: New Zealand dollar (NZD)

Currency code: NZD

Exchange rates: New Zealand dollars per US dollar - 2.2502 (January
2001), 2.1863 (2000), 1.8886 (1999), 1.8629 (1998), 1.5083 (1997),
1.4543 (1996)

Fiscal year: 1 April - 31 March



Pitcairn Islands    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 1 (there are 17 telephones on one
party line) (1997)

Telephone system: general assessment:  only party line telephone
service is available for this small, closely related community

domestic:  party line service only

international:  radiotelephone

Radio broadcast stations: AM 1, FM 0, shortwave 0 (1998)

Radios: NA

Television broadcast stations: 0 (1997)

Televisions: NA

Internet country code: .pn

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): NA

Internet users: NA



Pitcairn Islands    Transportation

Railways: 0 km

Highways: total:  6.4 km

paved:  0 km

unpaved:  6.4 km

Waterways: none

Ports and harbors: Bounty Bay

Merchant marine: none (2000 est.)

Airports: none



Pitcairn Islands    Military

Military - note: defense is the responsibility of the UK



Pitcairn Islands    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

======================================================================

@Poland




Poland    Introduction

Background: Poland gained its independence in 1918 only to be
overrun by Germany and the Soviet Union in World War II. It became a
Soviet satellite country following the war, but one that was
comparatively tolerant and progressive. Labor turmoil in 1980 led to
the formation of the independent trade union "Solidarity" that over
time became a political force and by 1990 had swept parliamentary
elections and the presidency. A "shock therapy" program during the
early 1990s enabled the country to transform its economy into one of
the most robust in Central Europe, boosting hopes for acceptance to
the EU. Poland joined the NATO alliance in 1999.



Poland    Geography

Location: Central Europe, east of Germany

Geographic coordinates: 52 00 N, 20 00 E

Map references: Europe

Area: total:  312,685 sq km

land:  304,465 sq km

water:  8,220 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly smaller than New Mexico

Land boundaries: total:  2,888 km

border countries:  Belarus 605 km, Czech Republic 658 km, Germany
456 km, Lithuania 91 km, Russia (Kaliningrad Oblast) 206 km,
Slovakia 444 km, Ukraine 428 km

Coastline: 491 km

Maritime claims: exclusive economic zone:  defined by international
treaties

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: temperate with cold, cloudy, moderately severe winters with
frequent precipitation; mild summers with frequent showers and
thundershowers

Terrain: mostly flat plain; mountains along southern border

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Raczki Elblaskie -2 m

highest point:  Rysy 2,499 m

Natural resources: coal, sulfur, copper, natural gas, silver, lead,
salt, arable land

Land use: arable land:  47%

permanent crops:  1%

permanent pastures:  13%

forests and woodland:  29%

other:  10% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 1,000 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: NA

Environment - current issues: situation has improved since 1989 due
to decline in heavy industry and increased environmental concern by
postcommunist governments; air pollution nonetheless remains serious
because of sulfur dioxide emissions from coal-fired power plants,
and the resulting acid rain has caused forest damage; water
pollution from industrial and municipal sources is also a problem,
as is disposal of hazardous wastes

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Air Pollution,
Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic-Marine Living Resources,
Antarctic Seals, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change,
Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes,
Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer
Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands

signed, but not ratified:  Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air
Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants, Air Pollution-Sulphur 94,
Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol

Geography - note: historically, an area of conflict because of flat
terrain and the lack of natural barriers on the North European Plain



Poland    People

Population: 38,633,912 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  18.39% (male 3,640,451; female 3,463,604)

15-64 years:  69.17% (male 13,288,471; female 13,434,753)

65 years and over:  12.44% (male 1,836,816; female 2,969,817) (2001
est.)

Population growth rate: -0.03% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 10.2 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 9.98 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: -0.49 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.06 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  0.99 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.62 male(s)/female

total population:  0.94 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 9.39 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  73.42 years

male:  69.26 years

female:  77.82 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 1.37 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 0.07% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: NA

HIV/AIDS - deaths: less than 100 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Pole(s)

adjective:  Polish

Ethnic groups: Polish 97.6%, German 1.3%, Ukrainian 0.6%,
Byelorussian 0.5% (1990 est.)

Religions: Roman Catholic 95% (about 75% practicing), Eastern
Orthodox, Protestant, and other 5%

Languages: Polish

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  99%

male:  99%

female:  98% (1978 est.)



Poland    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Republic of Poland

conventional short form:  Poland

local long form:  Rzeczpospolita Polska

local short form:  Polska

Government type: republic

Capital: Warsaw

Administrative divisions: 16 provinces (wojewodztwa, singular -
wojewodztwo); Dolnoslaskie, Kujawsko-Pomorskie, Lodzkie, Lubelskie,
Lubuskie, Malopolskie, Mazowieckie, Opolskie, Podkarpackie,
Podlaskie, Pomorskie, Slaskie, Swietokrzyskie, Warminsko-Mazurskie,
Wielkopolskie, Zachodniopomorskie

Independence: 11 November 1918 (independent republic proclaimed)

National holiday: Constitution Day, 3 May (1791)

Constitution: 16 October 1997; adopted by the National Assembly 2
April 1997; passed by national referendum 23 May 1997

Legal system: mixture of Continental (Napoleonic) civil law and
holdover communist legal theory; changes being gradually introduced
as part of broader democratization process; limited judicial review
of legislative acts although under the new constitution, the
Constitutional Tribunal ruling will become final as of October 1999;
court decisions can be appealed to the European Court of Justice in
Strasbourg

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Aleksander KWASNIEWSKI
(since 23 December 1995)

head of government:  Prime Minister Jerzy BUZEK - Solidarity
Electoral Union - (since 31 October 1997), Deputy Prime Ministers
Janusz STEINHOFF (since 12 June 2000), Longin KOMOLOWSKI (since 19
October 1999)

cabinet:  Council of Ministers responsible to the prime minister and
the Sejm; the prime minister proposes, the president appoints, and
the Sejm approves the Council of Ministers

elections:  president elected by popular vote for a five-year term;
election held 8 October 2000 (next to be held NA October 2005);
prime minister and deputy prime ministers appointed by the president
and confirmed by the Sejm

election results:  Aleksander KWASNIEWSKI reelected president;
percent of popular vote - Aleksander KWASNIEWSKI 53.9%, Andrzj
OLECHOWSKI 17.3%, Marian KRZAKLEWSKI 15.6%, Lech WALESA 1%

Legislative branch: bicameral National Assembly or Zgromadzenie
Narodowe consists of the Sejm (460 seats; members are elected under
a complex system of proportional representation to serve four-year
terms) and the Senate or Senat (100 seats; members are elected by a
majority vote on a provincial basis to serve four-year terms)

elections:  Sejm elections last held 21 September 1997 (next to be
held by NA September 2001); Senate - last held 21 September 1997
(next to be held by NA September 2001)

election results:  Sejm - percent of vote by party - AWS 33.8%, SLD
27.1%, UW 13.4%, PSL 7.3%, ROP 5.6%, MNSO 0.4%, other 12.4%; seats
by party - AWS 201, SLD 164, UW 60, PSL 27, ROP 6, MNSO 2; Senate -
percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party - AWS 51, SLD 28, UW
8, ROP 5, PSL 3, independents 5; note - seats by party in the Sejm
as of February 2001: AWS 175, SLD 161, UW 49, PSL 26, PP 6, KdP 7,
ROP-PC 4, independents 31, one seat vacant

note:  two seats are assigned to ethnic minority parties

Judicial branch: Supreme Court (judges are appointed by the
president on the recommendation of the National Council of the
Judiciary for an indefinite period); Constitutional Tribunal (judges
are chosen by the Sejm for nine-year terms)

Political parties and leaders: Coalition for Poland or KdP [first
name unknown GRABOWSKI]; Confederation for an Independent
Poland-Patriotic Camp or KPN-OP (KPN-Fatherland or KPN-O is a small
group within the KPN-OP) [Michal JANISZEWSKI]; Democratic Left
Alliance or SLD (Social Democracy of Poland) [Leszek MILLER];
Freedom Union or UW [Bronislaw GEREMEK]; German Minority of Lower
Silesia or MNSO [Henryk KROLL]; Movement for the Reconstruction of
Poland or ROP-PC [Jan OLSZEWSKI]; Polish Accord or PP [Jan
LOPUSZANSKI]; Polish Peasant Party or PSL [Jaroslaw KALINOWSKI];
Polish Socialist Party or PPS [Piotr IKONOWICZ]; Solidarity
Electoral Action or AWS (includes RS-AWS and Solidarity) [Marian
KRZAKLEWSKI]; Social Movement-Solidarity Electoral Action or RS-AWS
[Jerzy BUZEK]

Political pressure groups and leaders: All Poland Trade Union
Alliance or OPZZ (trade union); Roman Catholic Church; Solidarity
(trade union)

International organization participation: ACCT (observer), Australia
Group, BIS, BSEC (observer), CBSS, CCC, CE, CEI, CERN, EAPC, EBRD,
ECE, EU (applicant), FAO, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA,
IEA (observer), IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat,
Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO, ITU, MINURSO, MONUC, NAM (guest), NATO,
NSG, OAS (observer), OECD, OPCW, OSCE, PCA, PFP, UN, UNCTAD, UNDOF,
UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNIFIL, UNIKOM, UNMEE, UNMIBH, UNMIK, UNMOP,
UNMOT, UNOMIG, UPU, WCL, WEU (associate), WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO,
WToO, WTrO, ZC

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Przemyslaw GRUDZINSKI

chancery:  2640 16th Street NW, Washington, DC 20009

telephone:  [1] (202) 234-3800 through 3802

FAX:  [1] (202) 328-6271

consulate(s) general:  Chicago, Los Angeles, and New York

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Christopher R. HILL

embassy:  Aleje Ujazdowskie 29/31 00-054, Warsaw P1

mailing address:  American Embassy Warsaw, US Department of State,
Washington, DC 20521-5010 (pouch)

telephone:  [48] (22) 628-30-41

FAX:  [48] (22) 628-82-98

consulate(s) general:  Krakow

Flag description: two equal horizontal bands of white (top) and red;
similar to the flags of Indonesia and Monaco which are red (top) and
white



Poland    Economy

Economy - overview: Poland has steadfastly pursued a policy of
liberalizing the economy and today stands out as one of the most
successful and open transition economies. GDP growth has been strong
and steady since 1992 - the best performance in the region. The
privatization of small and medium state-owned companies and a
liberal law on establishing new firms has allowed for the rapid
development of a vibrant private sector. In contrast, Poland's large
agricultural sector remains handicapped by structural problems,
surplus labor, inefficient small farms, and lack of investment.
Restructuring and privatization of "sensitive sectors" (e.g., coal,
steel, railroads, and energy) has begun. Structural reforms in
health care, education, the pension system, and state administration
have resulted in larger than expected fiscal pressures. Further
progress in public finance depends mainly on privatization of
Poland's remaining state sector. The government's determination to
enter the EU as soon as possible affects most aspects of its
economic policies. Improving Poland's outsized current account
deficit and reining in inflation are priorities. Warsaw leads the
region in foreign investment and needs a continued large inflow.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $327.5 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 4.8% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $8,500 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  3.8%

industry:  36.6%

services:  59.6% (1999)

Population below poverty line: 18.4% (2000 est.)

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  3%

highest 10%:  26.3% (1996)

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 10.2% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 17.2 million (1999 est.)

Labor force - by occupation: industry 22.1%, agriculture 27.5%,
services 50.4% (1999)

Unemployment rate: 12% (1999)

Budget: revenues:  $49.6 billion

expenditures:  $52.3 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
(1999)

Industries: machine building, iron and steel, coal mining,
chemicals, shipbuilding, food processing, glass, beverages, textiles

Industrial production growth rate: 4.3% (1999)

Electricity - production: 134.351 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  96.43%

hydro:  3.16%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0.41% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 120.007 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 8.43 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 3.491 billion kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: potatoes, fruits, vegetables, wheat;
poultry, eggs, pork

Exports: $28.4 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Exports - commodities: machinery and transport equipment 30.2%,
intermediate manufactured goods 25.5%, miscellaneous manufactured
goods 20.9%, food and live animals 8.5% (1999)

Exports - partners: Germany 36.1%, Italy 6.5%, Netherlands 5.3%,
France 4.8%, UK 4.0%, Czech Republic 3.8% (1999)

Imports: $42.7 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Imports - commodities: machinery and transport equipment 38.2%,
intermediate manufactured goods 20.8%, chemicals 14.3%,
miscellaneous manufactured goods 9.5% (1999)

Imports - partners: Germany 25.2%, Italy 9.4%, France 6.8%, Russia
5.8%, UK 4.6%, Netherlands 3.7% (1999)

Debt - external: $57 billion (2000)

Economic aid - recipient: $NA

Currency: zloty (PLN)

Currency code: PLN

Exchange rates: zlotych per US dollar - 4.3126 (December 2000),
4.3461 (2000), 3.9671 (1999), 3.4754 (1998), 3.2793 (1997), 2.6961
(1996)

Fiscal year: calendar year



Poland    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 8.07 million (1998)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 1.78 million (1998)

Telephone system: general assessment:  underdeveloped and outmoded
system; government aimed to have 10 million telephones in service by
2000; the process of partial privatization of the state-owned
telephone monopoly has begun; in 1998 there were over 2 million
applicants on the waiting list for telephone service

domestic:  cable, open wire, and microwave radio relay; 3 cellular
networks; local exchanges 56.6% digital

international:  satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat, NA Eutelsat,
2 Inmarsat (Atlantic and Indian Ocean regions), and 1 Intersputnik
(Atlantic Ocean region)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 14, FM 777, shortwave 1 (1998)

Radios: 20.2 million (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 179 (plus 256 repeaters) (September
1995)

Televisions: 13.05 million (1997)

Internet country code: .pl

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 19 (2000)

Internet users: 2.8 million (2000)



Poland    Transportation

Railways: total:  23,420 km

broad gauge:  646 km 1.524-m gauge

standard gauge:  21,639 km 1.435-m gauge (11,626 km electrified;
8,978 km double track)

narrow gauge:  1,135 km various gauges including 1.000-m, 0.785-m,
0.750-m, and 0.600-m (1998)

Highways: total:  381,046 km

paved:  249,966 km (including 268 km of expressways)

unpaved:  131,080 km (1998)

Waterways: 3,812 km (navigable rivers and canals) (1996)

Pipelines: crude oil and petroleum products 2,280 km; natural gas
17,000 km (1996)

Ports and harbors: Gdansk, Gdynia, Gliwice, Kolobrzeg, Szczecin,
Swinoujscie, Ustka, Warsaw, Wroclaw

Merchant marine: total:  46 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
943,540 GRT/1,532,694 DWT

ships by type:  bulk 41, cargo 2, chemical tanker 1, roll on/roll
off 1, short-sea passenger 1 (2000 est.)

Airports: 122 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  83

over 3,047 m:  3

2,438 to 3,047 m:  29

1,524 to 2,437 m:  42

914 to 1,523 m:  6

under 914 m:  3 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  39

2,438 to 3,047 m:  1

1,524 to 2,437 m:  4

914 to 1,523 m:  13

under 914 m:  21 (2000 est.)

Heliports: 3 (2000 est.)



Poland    Military

Military branches: Army, Navy, Air and Air Defense Force

Military manpower - military age: 19 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  10,447,931 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
8,139,245 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  344,781
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $3.17 billion (FY00)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 1.95% (FY00)



Poland    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

Illicit drugs: major illicit producer of amphetamine for the
international market; minor transshipment point for Asian and Latin
American illicit drugs to Western Europe

======================================================================

@Portugal




Portugal    Introduction

Background: Following its heyday as a world power during the 15th
and 16th centuries, Portugal lost much of its wealth and status with
the destruction of Lisbon in a 1755 earthquake, occupation during
the Napoleonic Wars, and the independence in 1822 of Brazil as a
colony. A 1910 revolution deposed the monarchy; for most of the next
six decades repressive governments ran the country. In 1974, a
left-wing military coup installed broad democratic reforms. The
following year Portugal granted independence to all of its African
colonies. Portugal entered the EC in 1985.



Portugal    Geography

Location: Southwestern Europe, bordering the North Atlantic Ocean,
west of Spain

Geographic coordinates: 39 30 N, 8 00 W

Map references: Europe

Area: total:  92,391 sq km

land:  91,951 sq km

water:  440 sq km

note:  includes Azores and Madeira Islands

Area - comparative: slightly smaller than Indiana

Land boundaries: total:  1,214 km

border countries:  Spain 1,214 km

Coastline: 1,793 km

Maritime claims: contiguous zone:  24 NM

continental shelf:  200-m depth or to the depth of exploitation

exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: maritime temperate; cool and rainy in north, warmer and
drier in south

Terrain: mountainous north of the Tagus River, rolling plains in
south

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Atlantic Ocean 0 m

highest point:  Ponta do Pico (Pico or Pico Alto) on Ilha do Pico in
the Azores 2,351 m

Natural resources: fish, forests (cork), tungsten, iron ore, uranium
ore, marble, arable land, hydro power

Land use: arable land:  26%

permanent crops:  9%

permanent pastures:  9%

forests and woodland:  36%

other:  20% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 6,300 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: Azores subject to severe earthquakes

Environment - current issues: soil erosion; air pollution caused by
industrial and vehicle emissions; water pollution, especially in
coastal areas

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Air Pollution,
Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species,
Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Marine Life
Conservation, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical
Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands

signed, but not ratified:  Air Pollution-Persistent Organic
Pollutants, Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds, Climate
Change-Kyoto Protocol, Environmental Modification, Nuclear Test Ban

Geography - note: Azores and Madeira Islands occupy strategic
locations along western sea approaches to Strait of Gibraltar



Portugal    People

Population: 10,066,253 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  16.96% (male 877,379; female 830,242)

15-64 years:  67.42% (male 3,321,473; female 3,465,481)

65 years and over:  15.62% (male 637,207; female 934,471) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 0.18% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 11.51 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 10.21 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 0.5 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.07 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.06 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  0.96 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.68 male(s)/female

total population:  0.92 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 5.94 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  75.94 years

male:  72.44 years

female:  79.68 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 1.48 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 0.74% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 36,000 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: 280 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Portuguese (singular and plural)

adjective:  Portuguese

Ethnic groups: homogeneous Mediterranean stock; citizens of black
African descent who immigrated to mainland during decolonization
number less than 100,000

Religions: Roman Catholic 94%, Protestant (1995)

Languages: Portuguese

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  87.4%

male:  NA%

female:  NA%



Portugal    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Portuguese Republic

conventional short form:  Portugal

local long form:  Republica Portuguesa

local short form:  Portugal

Government type: parliamentary democracy

Capital: Lisbon

Administrative divisions: 18 districts (distritos, singular -
distrito) and 2 autonomous regions* (regioes autonomas, singular -
regiao autonoma); Aveiro, Acores (Azores)*, Beja, Braga, Braganca,
Castelo Branco, Coimbra, Evora, Faro, Guarda, Leiria, Lisboa,
Madeira*, Portalegre, Porto, Santarem, Setubal, Viana do Castelo,
Vila Real, Viseu

Independence: 1140 (independent republic proclaimed 5 October 1910)

National holiday: Portugal Day, 10 June (1580)

Constitution: 25 April 1976, revised 30 October 1982, 1 June 1989, 5
November 1992, and 3 September 1997

Legal system: civil law system; the Constitutional Tribunal reviews
the constitutionality of legislation; accepts compulsory ICJ
jurisdiction, with reservations

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Jorge SAMPAIO (since 9
March 1996)

head of government:  Prime Minister Antonio Manuel de Oliviera
GUTERRES (since 28 October 1995)

cabinet:  Council of Ministers appointed by the president on the
recommendation of the prime minister

note:  there is also a Council of State that acts as a consultative
body to the president

elections:  president elected by popular vote for a five-year term;
election last held 14 January 2001 (next to be held NA January
2006); following legislative elections, the leader of the majority
party or leader of a majority coalition is usually appointed prime
minister by the president

election results:  Jorge SAMPAIO re-elected president; percent of
vote - Jorge SAMPAIO (Socialist) 55.8%, Joaquim FERREIRA Do Amaral
(Social Democrat) 34.5%, Antonio ABREU (Communist) 5.1%

Legislative branch: unicameral Assembly of the Republic or
Assembleia da Republica (230 seats; members are elected by popular
vote to serve four-year terms)

elections:  last held 10 October 1999 (next to be held by NA October
2003)

election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
PS 115, PSD 81, PCP 15, PP 15, PEV 2, The Left Bloc 2

Judicial branch: Supreme Court or Supremo Tribunal de Justica
(judges appointed for life by the Conselho Superior da Magistratura)

Political parties and leaders: The Greens or PEV [leader NA];
Popular Party or PP [Paulo PORTAS]; Portuguese Communist
Party/United Democratic Coalition or PCP/CDU [Carlos CARVALHAS];
Portuguese Socialist Party or PS [Antonio GUTERRES]; Social
Democratic Party or PSD [leader vacant]; The Left Bloc [no leader]

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: AfDB, Australia Group,
BIS, CCC, CE, CERN, EAPC, EBRD, ECE, ECLAC, EIB, EMU, ESA, EU, FAO,
IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IEA, IFAD, IFC,
IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM,
ISO, ITU, LAIA (observer), MINURSO, NAM (guest), NATO, NEA, NSG, OAS
(observer), OECD, OPCW, OSCE, PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO,
UNMIBH, UNMIK, UNMOP, UNTAET, UPU, WCL, WEU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO,
WToO, WTrO, ZC

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Joao Alberto Bacelar ROCHA PARIS

chancery:  2125 Kalorama Road NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone:  [1] (202) 328-8610

FAX:  [1] (202) 462-3726

consulate(s) general:  Boston, New York, Newark (New Jersey), and
San Francisco

consulate(s):  Los Angeles, New Bedford (Massachusetts), Providence
(Rhode Island)

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Gerald S. MCGOWAN

embassy:  Avenida das Forcas Armadas, 1600 Lisbon

mailing address:  PSC 83, APO AE 09726

telephone:  [351] (21) 727-3300

FAX:  [351] (21) 726-9109

consulate(s):  Ponta Delgada (Azores)

Flag description: two vertical bands of green (hoist side,
two-fifths) and red (three-fifths) with the Portuguese coat of arms
centered on the dividing line



Portugal    Economy

Economy - overview: Portugal is an upcoming capitalist economy with
a per capita GDP two-thirds that of the four big West European
economies. The country qualified for the European Monetary Union
(EMU) in 1998 and joined with 10 other European countries in
launching the euro on 1 January 1999. The year 2000 was marked by
moderation in growth, inflation, and unemployment. The country
continues to run a sizable trade deficit. The government is working
to reform the tax system, to modernize capital plant, and to
increase the country's competitiveness in the increasingly
integrated world markets. Growth is expected to fall off slightly in
2001. Improvement in the education sector is critical to the
long-run catch-up process.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $159 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 2.7% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $15,800 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  4%

industry:  36%

services:  60% (1999 est.)

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:
3.1%

highest 10%:  28.4% (1995 est.)

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 2.8% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 5 million (1999)

Labor force - by occupation: services 60%, industry 30%, agriculture
10% (1999 est.)

Unemployment rate: 4.3% (2000 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $48.6 billion

expenditures:  $50.7 billion, including capital expenditures of $7.7
billion (2000 est.)

Industries: textiles and footwear; wood pulp, paper, and cork;
metalworking; oil refining; chemicals; fish canning; wine; tourism

Industrial production growth rate: 2.9% (1999 est.)

Electricity - production: 41.696 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  79.97%

hydro:  17.25%

nuclear:  0%

other:  2.78% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 37.915 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 4.49 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 3.628 billion kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: grain, potatoes, olives, grapes; sheep,
cattle, goats, poultry, beef, dairy products

Exports: $26.1 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Exports - commodities: clothing and footwear, machinery, chemicals,
cork and paper products, hides

Exports - partners: EU 83% (Germany 20%, Spain 18%, France 14%, UK
12%, Netherlands 5%, Benelux 5%, Italy), US 5% (1999)

Imports: $41 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Imports - commodities: machinery and transport equipment, chemicals,
petroleum, textiles, agricultural products

Imports - partners: EU 78% (Spain 25%, Germany 15%, France 11%,
Italy 8%, UK 7%, Netherlands 5%), US 3%, Japan 3% (1998)

Debt - external: $13.1 billion (1997 est.)

Economic aid - donor: ODA, $271 million (1995)

Currency: Portuguese escudo (PTE); euro (EUR)

note:  on 1 January 1999, the EU introduced the euro as a common
currency that is now being used by financial institutions in
Portugal at a fixed rate of 200.482 Portuguese escudos per euro and
will replace the local currency for all transactions in 2002

Currency code: PTE; EUR

Exchange rates: euros per US dollar - 1.0659 (January 2001), 1.0854
(2000), 0.9386 (1999); Portuguese escudos per US dollar - 180.10
(1998), 175.31 (1997), 154.24 (1996)

Fiscal year: calendar year



Portugal    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 5.3 million (end 1998)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 3,074,194 (1999)

Telephone system: general assessment:  undergoing rapid development
in recent years, Portugal's telephone system, by the end of 1998,
achieved a state-of-the-art network with broadband, high-speed
capabilities and a main line telephone density of 53%

domestic:  integrated network of coaxial cables, open wire,
microwave radio relay, and domestic satellite earth stations

international:  6 submarine cables; satellite earth stations - 3
Intelsat (2 Atlantic Ocean and 1 Indian Ocean), NA Eutelsat;
tropospheric scatter to Azores; note - an earth station for Inmarsat
(Atlantic Ocean region) is planned

Radio broadcast stations: AM 47, FM 172 (many are repeaters),
shortwave 2 (1998)

Radios: 3.02 million (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 62 (plus 166 repeaters)

note:  includes Azores and Madeira Islands (1995)

Televisions: 3.31 million (1997)

Internet country code: .pt

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 16 (2000)

Internet users: 700,000 (2000)



Portugal    Transportation

Railways: total:  2,850 km

broad gauge:  2,576 km 1.668-m gauge (623 km electrified; 426 km
double track)

narrow gauge:  274 km 1.000-m gauge (1998)

Highways: total:  68,732 km

paved:  59,110 km (including 797 km of expressways)

unpaved:  9,622 km (1999)

Waterways: 820 km

note:  relatively unimportant to national economy, used by
shallow-draft craft limited to 300 metric-ton or less cargo capacity

Pipelines: crude oil 22 km; petroleum products 58 km; natural gas
700 km

note:  the secondary lines for the natural gas pipeline that will be
300 km long have not yet been built

Ports and harbors: Aveiro, Funchal (Madeira Islands), Horta
(Azores), Leixoes, Lisbon, Porto, Ponta Delgada (Azores), Praia da
Vitoria (Azores), Setubal, Viana do Castelo

Merchant marine: total:  158 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
1,053,586 GRT/1,611,238 DWT

ships by type:  bulk 14, cargo 84, chemical tanker 16, container 10,
liquefied gas 7, multi-functional large-load carrier 1, petroleum
tanker 11, refrigerated cargo 1, roll on/roll off 6, short-sea
passenger 4, vehicle carrier 4

note:  includes some foreign-owned ships registered here as a flag
of convenience: Spain 1 (2000 est.)

Airports: 66 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  40

over 3,047 m:  5

2,438 to 3,047 m:  9

1,524 to 2,437 m:  4

914 to 1,523 m:  17

under 914 m:  5 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  26

914 to 1,523 m:  1

under 914 m:  25 (2000 est.)



Portugal    Military

Military branches: Army, Navy (includes Marines), Air Force,
National Republican Guard

Military manpower - military age: 20 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  2,530,466 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
2,030,759 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  71,404
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $2.458 billion (FY97)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 2.6% (FY97)



Portugal    Transnational Issues

Illicit drugs: important gateway country for Latin American cocaine
and Southwest Asian heroin entering the European market;
transshipment point for hashish from North Africa to Europe;
consumer of Southwest Asian heroin

======================================================================

@Puerto Rico





Puerto Rico    Introduction

Background: Discovered by Columbus in 1493, the island was ceded by
Spain to the US in 1898 following the Spanish-American War. A
popularly elected governor has served since 1948. In plebiscites
held in 1967 and 1993, voters chose to retain commonwealth status.



Puerto Rico    Geography

Location: Caribbean, island between the Caribbean Sea and the North
Atlantic Ocean, east of the Dominican Republic

Geographic coordinates: 18 15 N, 66 30 W

Map references: Central America and the Caribbean

Area: total:  9,104 sq km

land:  8,959 sq km

water:  145 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly less than three times the size of Rhode
Island

Land boundaries: 0 km

Coastline: 501 km

Maritime claims: exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: tropical marine, mild; little seasonal temperature variation

Terrain: mostly mountains, with coastal plain belt in north;
mountains precipitous to sea on west coast; sandy beaches along most
coastal areas

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Caribbean Sea 0 m

highest point:  Cerro de Punta 1,338 m

Natural resources: some copper and nickel; potential for onshore and
offshore oil

Land use: arable land:  4%

permanent crops:  5%

permanent pastures:  26%

forests and woodland:  16%

other:  49% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 390 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: periodic droughts; hurricanes

Environment - current issues: erosion; occasional drought causing
water shortages

Geography - note: important location along the Mona Passage - a key
shipping lane to the Panama Canal; San Juan is one of the biggest
and best natural harbors in the Caribbean; many small rivers and
high central mountains ensure land is well watered; south coast
relatively dry; fertile coastal plain belt in north



Puerto Rico    People

Population: 3,937,316 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  23.73% (male 478,441; female 455,800)

15-64 years:  65.72% (male 1,242,245; female 1,345,421)

65 years and over:  10.55% (male 177,083; female 238,326) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 0.54% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 15.26 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 7.77 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: -2.13 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.06 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  0.92 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.74 male(s)/female

total population:  0.93 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 9.51 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  75.76 years

male:  71.28 years

female:  80.48 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 1.9 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: NA%

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: NA

HIV/AIDS - deaths: NA

Nationality: noun:  Puerto Rican(s) (US citizens)

adjective:  Puerto Rican

Ethnic groups: white (mostly Spanish origin) 80.5%, black 8%,
Amerindian 0.4%, Asian 0.2%, mixed and other 10.9%

Religions: Roman Catholic 85%, Protestant and other 15%

Languages: Spanish, English

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  89%

male:  90%

female:  88% (1980 est.)



Puerto Rico    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Commonwealth of Puerto Rico

conventional short form:  Puerto Rico

Dependency status: commonwealth associated with the US

Government type: commonwealth

Capital: San Juan

Administrative divisions: none (commonwealth associated with the
US); there are no first-order administrative divisions as defined by
the US Government, but there are 78 municipalities (municipios,
singular - municipio) at the second order; Adjuntas, Aguada,
Aguadilla, Aguas Buenas, Aibonito, Anasco, Arecibo, Arroyo,
Barceloneta, Barranquitas, Bayamon, Cabo Rojo, Caguas, Camuy,
Canovanas, Carolina, Catano, Cayey, Ceiba, Ciales, Cidra, Coamo,
Comerio, Corozal, Culebra, Dorado, Fajardo, Florida, Guanica,
Guayama, Guayanilla, Guaynabo, Gurabo, Hatillo, Hormigueros,
Humacao, Isabela, Jayuya, Juana Diaz, Juncos, Lajas, Lares, Las
Marias, Las Piedras, Loiza, Luquillo, Manati, Maricao, Maunabo,
Mayaguez, Moca, Morovis, Naguabo, Naranjito, Orocovis, Patillas,
Penuelas, Ponce, Quebradillas, Rincon, Rio Grande, Sabana Grande,
Salinas, San German, San Juan, San Lorenzo, San Sebastian, Santa
Isabel, Toa Alta, Toa Baja, Trujillo Alto, Utuado, Vega Alta, Vega
Baja, Vieques, Villalba, Yabucoa, Yauco

Independence: none (commonwealth associated with the US)

National holiday: US Independence Day, 4 July (1776)

Constitution: ratified 3 March 1952; approved by US Congress 3 July
1952; effective 25 July 1952

Legal system: based on Spanish civil code

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal; indigenous inhabitants are US
citizens but do not vote in US presidential elections

Executive branch: chief of state:  President George W. BUSH of the
US (since 20 January 2001); Vice President Richard B. CHENEY (since
20 January 2001)

head of government:  Governor Sila M. CALDERON (since NA January
2001)

cabinet:  appointed by the governor with the consent of the
legislature

elections:  US president and vice president elected on the same
ticket for four-year terms; governor elected by popular vote for a
four-year term; election last held 7 November 2000 (next to be held
NA November 2004)

election results:  Sila M. CALDERON (PDP) elected governor; percent
of vote - 48.8%

Legislative branch: bicameral Legislative Assembly consists of the
Senate (28 seats; members are directly elected by popular vote to
serve four-year terms) and the House of Representatives (54 seats;
members are directly elected by popular vote to serve four-year
terms)

elections:  Senate - last held 7 November 2000 (next to be held NA
November 2004); House of Representatives - last held 7 November 2000
(next to be held NA November 2004)

election results:  Senate - percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by
party - PNP 19, PPD 7, PIP 1, other 1; House of Representatives -
percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party - PNP 30, PPD 20, PIP
1, other 3

note:  Puerto Rico elects one nonvoting representative to the US
House of Representatives; elections last held 7 November 2000 (next
to be held NA November 2004); results - percent of vote by party -
NA; seats by party - PPD 1 (Anibal ACEVEDO-VILA)

Judicial branch: Supreme Court; Superior Courts; Municipal Courts
(justices for all these courts appointed by the governor with the
consent of the Senate)

Political parties and leaders: National Democratic Party [Celeste
BENITEZ]; National Republican Party of Puerto Rico [Luis FERRE]; New
Progressive Party or PNP [Pedro ROSSELLO]; Popular Democratic Party
or PPD [Hector Luis ACEVEDO]; Puerto Rican Independence Party or PIP
[Ruben BERRIOS Martinez]

Political pressure groups and leaders: Armed Forces for National
Liberation or FALN; Armed Forces of Popular Resistance; Boricua
Popular Army (also known as the Macheteros); Volunteers of the
Puerto Rican Revolution

International organization participation: Caricom (observer), ECLAC
(associate), FAO (associate), ICFTU, Interpol (subbureau), IOC, WCL,
WFTU, WHO (associate)

Diplomatic representation in the US: none (commonwealth associated
with the US)

Diplomatic representation from the US: none (commonwealth associated
with the US)

Flag description: five equal horizontal bands of red (top and
bottom) alternating with white; a blue isosceles triangle based on
the hoist side bears a large, white, five-pointed star in the
center; design influenced by the US flag, but based on the Cuban flag



Puerto Rico    Economy

Economy - overview: Puerto Rico has one of the most dynamic
economies in the Caribbean region. A diverse industrial sector has
surpassed agriculture as the primary locus of economic activity and
income. Encouraged by duty-free access to the US and by tax
incentives, US firms have invested heavily in Puerto Rico since the
1950s. US minimum wage laws apply. Sugar production has lost out to
dairy production and other livestock products as the main source of
income in the agricultural sector. Tourism has traditionally been an
important source of income, with estimated arrivals of nearly 5
million tourists in 1999. Prospects for 2001 are clouded by a
probable slowing down in both the construction and tourist sectors
and by increasing inflation, particularly in energy and food prices;
estimated growth will be 2%.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $39 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 2.8% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $10,000 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  1%

industry:  45%

services:  54% (1999 est.)

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 5.7% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 1.3 million (2000)

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture 3%, industry 20%, services
77% (2000 est.)

Unemployment rate: 9.5% (2000)

Budget: revenues:  $6.7 billion

expenditures:  $9.6 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
(FY99/00)

Industries: pharmaceuticals, electronics, apparel, food products;
tourism

Industrial production growth rate: NA%

Electricity - production: 16.76 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  98.45%

hydro:  1.55%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 15.587 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: sugarcane, coffee, pineapples, plantains,
bananas; livestock products, chickens

Exports: $38.5 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Exports - commodities: pharmaceuticals, electronics, apparel, canned
tuna, rum, beverage concentrates, medical equipment

Exports - partners: US 88% (2000)

Imports: $27 billion (c.i.f., 2000)

Imports - commodities: chemicals, machinery and equipment, clothing,
food, fish, petroleum products

Imports - partners: US 60% (2000)

Debt - external: $NA

Economic aid - recipient: $NA

Currency: US dollar (USD)

Currency code: USD

Exchange rates: the US dollar is used

Fiscal year: 1 July - 30 June



Puerto Rico    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 1.322 million (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 169,265 (1996)

Telephone system: general assessment:  modern system, integrated
with that of the US by high-capacity submarine cable and Intelsat
with high-speed data capability

domestic:  digital telephone system; cellular telephone service

international:  satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat; submarine
cable to US

Radio broadcast stations: AM 72, FM 17, shortwave 0 (1998)

Radios: 2.7 million (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 18 (plus three stations of the US
Armed Forces Radio and Television Service) (1997)

Televisions: 1.021 million (1997)

Internet country code: .pr

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 76 (2000)

Internet users: 110,000 (2000)



Puerto Rico    Transportation

Railways: total:  96 km

narrow gauge:  96 km 1.000-m gauge, rural, narrow-gauge system for
hauling sugarcane; no passenger service

Highways: total:  14,400 km

paved:  14,400 km

unpaved:  0 km (1996)

Waterways: none

Ports and harbors: Guanica, Guayanilla, Guayama, Playa de Ponce, San
Juan

Airports: 28 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  19

over 3,047 m:  3

1,524 to 2,437 m:  3

914 to 1,523 m:  7

under 914 m:  6 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  9

914 to 1,523 m:  2

under 914 m:  7 (2000 est.)



Puerto Rico    Military

Military branches: paramilitary National Guard, Police Force

Military - note: defense is the responsibility of the US



Puerto Rico    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

======================================================================

@Qatar




Qatar    Introduction

Background: Ruled by the Al Thani family since the mid-1800s, Qatar
transformed itself from a poor British protectorate noted mainly for
pearling into an independent state with significant oil and natural
gas revenues. During the late 1980s and early 1990s, the Qatari
economy was crippled by a continuous siphoning off of petroleum
revenues by the amir who had ruled the country since 1972. He was
overthrown by his son, the current Amir HAMAD bin Khalifa Al Thani,
in a bloodless coup in 1995. In 2001, Qatar resolved its
longstanding border disputes with both Bahrain and Saudi Arabia. Oil
and natural gas revenues enable Qatar to have a per capita income
not far below the leading industrial countries of Western Europe.



Qatar    Geography

Location: Middle East, peninsula bordering the Persian Gulf and
Saudi Arabia

Geographic coordinates: 25 30 N, 51 15 E

Map references: Middle East

Area: total:  11,437 sq km

land:  11,437 sq km

water:  0 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly smaller than Connecticut

Land boundaries: total:  60 km

border countries:  Saudi Arabia 60 km

Coastline: 563 km

Maritime claims: contiguous zone:  24 NM

exclusive economic zone:  as determined by bilateral agreements or
the median line

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: desert; hot, dry; humid and sultry in summer

Terrain: mostly flat and barren desert covered with loose sand and
gravel

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Persian Gulf 0 m

highest point:  Qurayn Abu al Bawl 103 m

Natural resources: petroleum, natural gas, fish

Land use: arable land:  1%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  5%

forests and woodland:  0%

other:  94% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 80 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: haze, dust storms, sandstorms common

Environment - current issues: limited natural fresh water resources
are increasing dependence on large-scale desalination facilities

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Desertification, Hazardous Wastes, Ozone Layer
Protection

signed, but not ratified:  Law of the Sea

Geography - note: strategic location in central Persian Gulf near
major petroleum deposits



Qatar    People

Population: 769,152 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  25.77% (male 101,155; female 97,086)

15-64 years:  71.75% (male 391,178; female 160,665)

65 years and over:  2.48% (male 13,625; female 5,443) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 3.18% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 15.91 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 4.26 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 20.12 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  2.43 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  2.5 male(s)/female

total population:  1.92 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 21.44 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  72.62 years

male:  70.16 years

female:  75.21 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 3.17 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 0.09% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: NA

HIV/AIDS - deaths: NA

Nationality: noun:  Qatari(s)

adjective:  Qatari

Ethnic groups: Arab 40%, Pakistani 18%, Indian 18%, Iranian 10%,
other 14%

Religions: Muslim 95%

Languages: Arabic (official), English commonly used as a second
language

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  79%

male:  79%

female:  80% (1995 est.)



Qatar    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  State of Qatar

conventional short form:  Qatar

local long form:  Dawlat Qatar

local short form:  Qatar

note:  closest approximation of the native pronunciation falls
between cutter and gutter, but not like guitar

Government type: traditional monarchy

Capital: Doha

Administrative divisions: 9 municipalities (baladiyat, singular -
baladiyah); Ad Dawhah, Al Ghuwayriyah, Al Jumayliyah, Al Khawr, Al
Wakrah, Ar Rayyan, Jarayan al Batinah, Madinat ash Shamal, Umm Salal

Independence: 3 September 1971 (from UK)

National holiday: Independence Day, 3 September (1971)

Constitution: provisional constitution enacted 19 April 1972; in
July 1999 Amir HAMAD issued a decree forming a committee to draft a
permanent constitution

Legal system: discretionary system of law controlled by the amir,
although civil codes are being implemented; Islamic law is
significant in personal matters

Suffrage: suffrage is limited to municipal elections

Executive branch: chief of state:  Amir HAMAD bin Khalifa Al Thani
(since 27 June 1995 when, as crown prince, he ousted his father,
Amir KHALIFA bin Hamad Al Thani, in a bloodless coup); Crown Prince
JASSIM bin Hamad bin Khalifa Al Thani, third son of the monarch
(selected crown prince by the monarch 22 October 1996); note - Amir
HAMAD also holds the positions of minister of defense and
commander-in-chief of the armed forces

head of government:  Prime Minister ABDALLAH bin Khalifa Al Thani,
brother of the monarch (since 30 October 1996); Deputy Prime
Minister MUHAMMAD bin Khalifa Al Thani, brother of the monarch
(since 20 January 1998)

cabinet:  Council of Ministers appointed by the monarch

elections:  none; the monarch is hereditary

note:  in March 1999 Qatar held nationwide elections for a 29-member
Central Municipal Council, which has consultative powers aimed at
improving the provision of municipal services

Legislative branch: unicameral Advisory Council or Majlis al-Shura
(35 seats; members appointed)

note:  the constitution calls for elections for part of this
consultative body, but no elections have been held since 1970, when
there were partial elections to the body; Council members have their
terms extended every four years since

Judicial branch: Court of Appeal

Political parties and leaders: none

Political pressure groups and leaders: none

International organization participation: ABEDA, AFESD, AL, AMF,
CCC, ESCWA, FAO, G-77, GCC, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICRM, IDB, IFAD,
IFRCS, IHO (pending member), ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat,
Interpol, IOC, ISO (correspondent), ITU, NAM, OAPEC, OIC, OPCW,
OPEC, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTrO

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Badr Umar al-DAFA

chancery:  4200 Wisconsin Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20016

telephone:  [1] (202) 274-1600

FAX:  [1] (202) 237-0061

consulate(s) general:  Houston

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Elizabeth Davenport MCKUNE

embassy:  22 February Road, Doha

mailing address:  P. O. Box 2399, Doha

telephone:  [974] 488 4101

FAX:  [974] 488 4298

note:  workweek is Saturday-Wednesday

Flag description: maroon with a broad white serrated band (nine
white points) on the hoist side



Qatar    Economy

Economy - overview: Oil accounts for more than 30% of GDP, roughly
80% of export earnings, and 66% of government revenues. Proved oil
reserves of 3.7 billion barrels should ensure continued output at
current levels for 23 years. Oil has given Qatar a per capita GDP
comparable to that of the leading West European industrial
countries. Qatar's proved reserves of natural gas exceed 7 trillion
cubic meters, more than 5% of the world total, third largest in the
world. Production and export of natural gas are becoming
increasingly important. Long-term goals feature the development of
offshore petroleum and the diversification of the economy. In 2000,
Qatar posted its highest ever trade surplus of $6 billion, due
mainly to high oil prices and increased natural gas exports.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $15.1 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 4% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $20,300 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  1%

industry:  49%

services:  50% (1996 est.)

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 2.5% (2000)

Labor force: 233,000 (1993 est.)

Unemployment rate: NA%

Budget: revenues:  $3.9 billion

expenditures:  $4 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
(1999 est.)

Industries: crude oil production and refining, fertilizers,
petrochemicals, steel reinforcing bars, cement

Industrial production growth rate: NA%

Electricity - production: 9 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  100%

hydro:  0%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 8.37 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: fruits, vegetables; poultry, dairy products,
beef; fish

Exports: $9.8 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Exports - commodities: petroleum products 80%, fertilizers, steel

Exports - partners: Japan 52%, Singapore 9%, South Korea 8%, US, UAE
(1998)

Imports: $3.8 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Imports - commodities: machinery and transport equipment, food,
chemicals

Imports - partners: UK 10%, Japan 8%, Germany 6%, US 6%, Italy 6%
(1998)

Debt - external: $13.1 billion (2000 est.)

Economic aid - recipient: $NA

Currency: Qatari rial (QAR)

Currency code: QAR

Exchange rates: Qatari rials per US dollar - 3.6400 (fixed rate)

Fiscal year: 1 April - 31 March



Qatar    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 142,000 (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 43,476 (1997)

Telephone system: general assessment:  modern system centered in Doha

domestic:  NA

international:  tropospheric scatter to Bahrain; microwave radio
relay to Saudi Arabia and UAE; submarine cable to Bahrain and UAE;
satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat (1 Atlantic Ocean and 1 Indian
Ocean) and 1 Arabsat

Radio broadcast stations: AM 6, FM 5, shortwave 1 (1998)

Radios: 256,000 (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 2 (plus three repeaters) (1997)

Televisions: 230,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .qa

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 1 (2000)

Internet users: 45,000 (2000)



Qatar    Transportation

Railways: 0 km

Highways: total:  1,230 km

paved:  1,107 km

unpaved:  123 km (1996)

Waterways: none

Pipelines: crude oil 235 km; natural gas 400 km

Ports and harbors: Doha, Halul Island, Umm Sa'id (Musay'id)

Merchant marine: total:  25 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
677,992 GRT/1,049,447 DWT

ships by type:  cargo 10, combination ore/oil 2, container 7,
petroleum tanker 6 (2000 est.)

Airports: 4 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  2

over 3,047 m:  2 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  2

914 to 1,523 m:  1

under 914 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Heliports: 1 (2000 est.)



Qatar    Military

Military branches: Army, Navy, Air Force, Public Security

Military manpower - military age: 18 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  312,116

note:  includes non-nationals (2001 est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
163,642 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  6,797
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $723 million (FY00/01)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 10% (FY00/01)



Qatar    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: in March of 2001, the International Court
of Justice (ICJ) awarded the Hawar Islands to Bahrain and adjusted
its maritime boundary with Qatar; a final border resolution was
agreed to with Saudi Arabia in March of 2001

======================================================================

@Reunion





Reunion    Introduction

Background: The Portuguese discovered the uninhabited island in
1513. From the 17th to the 19th centuries, French immigration
supplemented by influxes of Africans, Chinese, Malays, and Malabar
Indians gave the island its ethnic mix. The opening of the Suez
Canal in 1869 cost the island its importance as a stopover on the
East Indies trade route.



Reunion    Geography

Location: Southern Africa, island in the Indian Ocean, east of
Madagascar

Geographic coordinates: 21 06 S, 55 36 E

Map references: World

Area: total:  2,512 sq km

land:  2,502 sq km

water:  10 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly smaller than Rhode Island

Land boundaries: 0 km

Coastline: 207 km

Maritime claims: exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: tropical, but temperature moderates with elevation; cool
and dry from May to November, hot and rainy from November to April

Terrain: mostly rugged and mountainous; fertile lowlands along coast

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Indian Ocean 0 m

highest point:  Piton des Neiges 3,069 m

Natural resources: fish, arable land, hydropower

Land use: arable land:  17%

permanent crops:  2%

permanent pastures:  5%

forests and woodland:  35%

other:  41% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 60 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: periodic, devastating cyclones (December to April);
Piton de la Fournaise on the southeastern coast is an active volcano

Environment - current issues: NA



Reunion    People

Population: 732,570 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  32.07% (male 120,259; female 114,669)

15-64 years:  62.25% (male 224,347; female 231,698)

65 years and over:  5.68% (male 16,892; female 24,705) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 1.57% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 21.26 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 5.52 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  0.97 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.68 male(s)/female

total population:  0.97 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 8.49 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  72.93 years

male:  69.53 years

female:  76.49 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 2.58 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: NA%

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: NA

HIV/AIDS - deaths: NA

Nationality: noun:  Reunionese (singular and plural)

adjective:  Reunionese

Ethnic groups: French, African, Malagasy, Chinese, Pakistani, Indian

Religions: Roman Catholic 86%, Hindu, Muslim, Buddhist (1995)

Languages: French (official), Creole widely used

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  79%

male:  76%

female:  80% (1982 est.)



Reunion    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Department of Reunion

conventional short form:  Reunion

local long form:  none

local short form:  Ile de la Reunion

former:  Bourbon Island

Dependency status: overseas department of France

Government type: NA

Capital: Saint-Denis

Administrative divisions: none (overseas department of France);
there are no first-order administrative divisions as defined by the
US Government, but there are 4 arrondissements, 24 communes, and 47
cantons

Independence: none (overseas department of France)

National holiday: Bastille Day, 14 July (1789)

Constitution: 28 September 1958 (French Constitution)

Legal system: French law

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Jacques CHIRAC of
France (since 17 May 1995), represented by Prefect Robert POMMIES
(since NA 1996)

head of government:  President of the General Council Jean-Luc
POUDROUX (since NA March 1998) and President of the Regional Council
Paul VERGES (since NA March 1993)

cabinet:  NA

elections:  French president elected by popular vote for a
seven-year term; prefect appointed by the French president on the
advice of the French Ministry of the Interior; the presidents of the
General and Regional Councils are elected by the members of those
councils

Legislative branch: unicameral General Council (47 seats; members
are elected by direct popular vote to serve six-year terms) and a
unicameral Regional Council (45 seats; members are elected by direct
popular vote to serve six-year terms)

elections:  General Council - last held NA March 1994 (next to be
held NA 2000); Regional Council - last held 15 March 1998 (next to
be held NA 2004)

election results:  General Council - percent of vote by party - NA%;
seats by party - PCR 12, PS 12, UDF 11, RPR 5, others 7; Regional
Council - percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party - PCR 7,
UDF 8, PS 6, RPR 4, various right-wing candidates 15, various
left-wing candidates 5

note:  Reunion elects three representatives to the French Senate;
elections last held 14 April 1996 (next to be held NA 2001); results
- percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party - RPR 1, PCR 2;
Reunion also elects five deputies to the French National Assembly;
elections last held 25 May and 1 June 1997 (next to be held NA
2002); results - percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
PCR 3, PS 1, and RPR-UDF 1

Judicial branch: Court of Appeals or Cour d'Appel

Political parties and leaders: Communist Party of Reunion or PCR
[Paul VERGES]; Rally for the Republic or RPR [Andre Maurice
PIHOUEE]; Socialist Party or PS [Jean-Claude FRUTEAU]; Union for
French Democracy or UDF [Gilbert GERARD]

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: FZ, InOC, WFTU

Diplomatic representation in the US: none (overseas department of
France)

Diplomatic representation from the US: none (overseas department of
France)

Flag description: the flag of France is used



Reunion    Economy

Economy - overview: The economy has traditionally been based on
agriculture. Sugarcane has been the primary crop for more than a
century, and in some years it accounts for 85% of exports. The
government has been pushing the development of a tourist industry to
relieve high unemployment, which amounts to more than 40% of the
labor force. The gap in Reunion between the well-off and the poor is
extraordinary and accounts for the persistent social tensions. The
white and Indian communities are substantially better off than other
segments of the population, often approaching European standards,
whereas minority groups suffer the poverty and unemployment typical
of the poorer nations of the African continent. The outbreak of
severe rioting in February 1991 illustrates the seriousness of
socioeconomic tensions. The economic well-being of Reunion depends
heavily on continued financial assistance from France.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $3.4 billion (1998 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 3.8% (1998 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $4,800 (1998 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  NA%

industry:  NA%

services:  NA%

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): NA%

Labor force: 261,000 (1995)

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture 8%, industry 19%, services
73% (1990)

Unemployment rate: 42.8% (1998)

Budget: revenues:  NA

expenditures:  NA

Industries: sugar, rum, cigarettes, handicraft items, flower oil
extraction

Industrial production growth rate: NA%

Electricity - production: 1.1 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  54.55%

hydro:  45.45%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 1.023 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: sugarcane, vanilla, tobacco, tropical
fruits, vegetables, corn

Exports: $214 million (f.o.b., 1997)

Exports - commodities: sugar 63%, rum and molasses 4%, perfume
essences 2%, lobster 3%, (1993)

Exports - partners: France 74%, Japan 6%, Comoros 4% (1994)

Imports: $2.5 billion (c.i.f., 1997)

Imports - commodities: manufactured goods, food, beverages, tobacco,
machinery and transportation equipment, raw materials, and petroleum
products

Imports - partners: France 64%, Bahrain 3%, Germany 3%, Italy 3%
(1994)

Debt - external: $NA

Economic aid - recipient: $NA; note - substantial annual subsidies
from France

Currency: French franc (FRF); euro (EUR)

Currency code: FRF; EUR

Exchange rates: euros per US dollar - 1.06594 (January 2001),
1.08540 (2000), 0.9386 (1999); French francs per US dollar - 5.8995
(1998), 5.8367 (1997), 5.1155 (1996)

Fiscal year: calendar year



Reunion    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 236,500 (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 85,000 (1999)

Telephone system: general assessment:  adequate system; principal
center is Saint-Denis

domestic:  modern open wire and microwave radio relay network

international:  radiotelephone communication to Comoros, France,
Madagascar; new microwave route to Mauritius; satellite earth
station - 1 Intelsat (Indian Ocean)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 2, FM 55, shortwave 0 (1998)

Radios: 173,000 (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 22 (plus 18 low-power repeaters)
(1997)

Televisions: 127,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .re

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 1 (2000)

Internet users: 10,000 (2000)



Reunion    Transportation

Railways: 0 km

Highways: total:  2,724 km

paved:  1,300 km (including 73 km of four-lane road)

unpaved:  1,424 km

note:  370 km of road are maintained by national authorities, 754 km
by departmental authorities and 1600 km by local authorities (1994)

Waterways: none

Ports and harbors: Le Port, Pointe des Galets

Merchant marine: total:  1 ship (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 28,264
GRT/44,885 DWT

ships by type:  chemical tanker 1 (2000 est.)

Airports: 2 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  2

2,438 to 3,047 m:  1

914 to 1,523 m:  1 (2000 est.)



Reunion    Military

Military branches: French forces (Army, Navy, Air Force, and
Gendarmerie)

Military manpower - military age: 18 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  190,846 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
97,497 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  6,243
(2001 est.)

Military - note: defense is the responsibility of France



Reunion    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

======================================================================

@Romania




Romania    Introduction

Background: Soviet occupation following World War II led to the
formation of a communist "peoples republic" in 1947 and the
abdication of the king. The decades-long rule of President Nicolae
CEAUSESCU became increasingly draconian through the 1980s. He was
overthrown and executed in late 1989. Former communists dominated
the government until 1996 when they were swept from power. Much
economic restructuring remains to be carried out before Romania can
achieve its hope of joining the EU.



Romania    Geography

Location: Southeastern Europe, bordering the Black Sea, between
Bulgaria and Ukraine

Geographic coordinates: 46 00 N, 25 00 E

Map references: Europe

Area: total:  237,500 sq km

land:  230,340 sq km

water:  7,160 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly smaller than Oregon

Land boundaries: total:  2,508 km

border countries:  Bulgaria 608 km, Hungary 443 km, Moldova 450 km,
Yugoslavia 476 km, Ukraine (north) 362 km, Ukraine (east) 169 km

Coastline: 225 km

Maritime claims: contiguous zone:  24 NM

continental shelf:  200-m depth or to the depth of exploitation

exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: temperate; cold, cloudy winters with frequent snow and fog;
sunny summers with frequent showers and thunderstorms

Terrain: central Transylvanian Basin is separated from the Plain of
Moldavia on the east by the Carpathian Mountains and separated from
the Walachian Plain on the south by the Transylvanian Alps

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Black Sea 0 m

highest point:  Moldoveanu 2,544 m

Natural resources: petroleum (reserves declining), timber, natural
gas, coal, iron ore, salt, arable land, hydropower

Land use: arable land:  41%

permanent crops:  3%

permanent pastures:  21%

forests and woodland:  29%

other:  6% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 31,020 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: earthquakes most severe in south and southwest;
geologic structure and climate promote landslides

Environment - current issues: soil erosion and degradation; water
pollution; air pollution in south from industrial effluents;
contamination of Danube delta wetlands

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Air Pollution,
Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification,
Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes,
Law of the Sea, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship
Pollution, Wetlands

signed, but not ratified:  Air Pollution-Persistent Organic
Pollutants, Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol

Geography - note: controls most easily traversable land route
between the Balkans, Moldova, and Ukraine



Romania    People

Population: 22,364,022 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  17.95% (male 2,054,323; female 1,959,196)

15-64 years:  68.51% (male 7,605,751; female 7,715,434)

65 years and over:  13.54% (male 1,255,880; female 1,773,438) (2001
est.)

Population growth rate: -0.21% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 10.8 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 12.28 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: -0.6 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.06 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  0.99 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.71 male(s)/female

total population:  0.95 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 19.36 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  70.16 years

male:  66.36 years

female:  74.19 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 1.35 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 0.02% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 7,000 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: 350 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Romanian(s)

adjective:  Romanian

Ethnic groups: Romanian 89.5%, Hungarian 7.1%, Roma 1.8%, German
0.5%, Ukrainian 0.3%, other 0.8% (1992)

Religions: Romanian Orthodox 70%, Roman Catholic 3%, Uniate Catholic
3%, Protestant 6%, unaffiliated 18%

Languages: Romanian, Hungarian, German

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  97%

male:  98%

female:  95% (1992 est.)



Romania    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  none

conventional short form:  Romania

local long form:  none

local short form:  Romania

Government type: republic

Capital: Bucharest

Administrative divisions: 40 counties (judete, singular - judet) and
1 municipality* (municipiu); Alba, Arad, Arges, Bacau, Bihor,
Bistrita-Nasaud, Botosani, Braila, Brasov, Bucuresti*, Buzau,
Calarasi, Caras-Severin, Cluj, Constanta, Covasna, Dimbovita, Dolj,
Galati, Gorj, Giurgiu, Harghita, Hunedoara, Ialomita, Iasi,
Maramures, Mehedinti, Mures, Neamt, Olt, Prahova, Salaj, Satu Mare,
Sibiu, Suceava, Teleorman, Timis, Tulcea, Vaslui, Vilcea, Vrancea

Independence: 1881 (from Turkey; republic proclaimed 30 December
1947)

National holiday: Unification Day (of Romania and Transylvania), 1
December (1918)

Constitution: 8 December 1991

Legal system: former mixture of civil law system and communist legal
theory; is now based on the constitution of France's Fifth Republic

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Ion ILIESCU (since 20
December 2000)

head of government:  Prime Minister Adrian NASTASE (since 29
December 2000)

cabinet:  Council of Ministers appointed by the prime minister

elections:  president elected by popular vote for a four-year term;
election last held 26 November 2000, with runoff between the top two
candidates held 10 December 2000 (next to be held NA
November/December 2004); prime minister appointed by the president

election results:  percent of vote - Ion ILIESCU 66.84%, Corneliu
Vadim TUDOR 33.16%

Legislative branch: bicameral Parliament or Parlament consists of
the Senate or Senat (140 seats; members are elected by direct
popular vote on a proportional representation basis to serve
four-year terms) and the Chamber of Deputies or Adunarea Deputatilor
(345 seats; members are elected by direct popular vote on a
proportional representation basis to serve four-year terms)

elections:  Senate - last held 26 November 2000 (next to be held in
the fall of 2004); Chamber of Deputies - last held 26 November 2000
(next to be held in the fall of 2004)

election results:  Senate - percent of vote by party - PDSR 37.1%,
PRM 21.0%, PD 7.6%, PNL 7.5%, UDMR 6.9%; seats by party - PDSR 65,
PRM 37, PD 13, PNL 13, UDMR 12; Chamber of Deputies - percent of
vote by party - PDSR 36.6%, PRM 19.5%, PD 7.0%, PNL, 6.9%, UDMR
6.8%; seats by party - PDSR 155, PRM 84, PD 31, PNL 30, UDMR 27,
ethnic minorities 18

Judicial branch: Supreme Court of Justice (judges are appointed by
the president on the recommendation of the Superior Council of
Magistrates)

Political parties and leaders: Democratic Party or PD [Petre ROMAN];
Democratic Union of Hungarians in Romania or UDMR [Bela MARKO];
National Liberal Party or PNL [Mircea IONESCU-QUINTUS]; Party of
Social Democracy in Romania or PDSR [Adrian NASTASE]; Romania Mare
Party (Greater Romanian Party) or PRM [Corneliu Vadim TUDOR]; The
Democratic Convention or CDR [Ion DIACONESCU]

Political pressure groups and leaders: various human rights and
professional associations

International organization participation: ACCT, Australia Group,
BIS, BSEC, CCC, CE, CEI, EAPC, EBRD, ECE, EU (applicant), FAO, G- 9,
G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, ICRM, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF,
IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO, ITU, LAIA
(observer), MONUC, NAM (guest), NSG, OAS (observer), OPCW, OSCE,
PCA, PFP, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNIKOM, UNMEE, UNMIBH, UNMIK,
UPU, WCL, WEU (associate partner), WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO,
ZC

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
(vacant)

chancery:  1607 23rd Street NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone:  [1] (202) 332-4846, 4848, 4851

FAX:  [1] (202) 232-4748

consulate(s) general:  Chicago, Los Angeles, and New York

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
James C. ROSAPEPE

embassy:  Strada Tudor Arghezi 7-9, Bucharest

mailing address:  American Embassy Bucharest, Department of State,
Washington, DC 20521-5260 (pouch)

telephone:  [40] (1) 210 40 42

FAX:  [40] (1) 210 03 95

branch office(s):  Cluj-Napoca

Flag description: three equal vertical bands of blue (hoist side),
yellow, and red; the national coat of arms that used to be centered
in the yellow band has been removed; now similar to the flag of
Chad, also resembles the flags of Andorra and Moldova



Romania    Economy

Economy - overview: Romania, one of the poorest countries in Central
and Eastern Europe, began the transition from communism in 1989 with
a largely obsolete industrial base and a pattern of output unsuited
to the country's needs. Over the past decade economic restructuring
has lagged behind most other countries in the region. Consequently,
living standards have continued to fall - real wages are down over
40%. Corruption too has worsened. The EU ranks Romania last among
enlargement candidates, and the European Bank for Reconstruction and
Development (EBRD) rates Romania's transition progress the region's
worst. The country emerged in 2000 from a punishing three-year
recession thanks to strong demand in EU export markets. A new
government elected in November 2000 promises to promote economic
reform. Bucharest hopes to receive financial and technical
assistance from international financial institutions and Western
governments; negotiations over a new IMF standby agreement are to
begin early in 2001. If reform stalls, Romania's ability to borrow
from both public and private sources could quickly dry up, leading
to another financial crisis.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $132.5 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 2.2% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $5,900 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  13.9%

industry:  32.6%

services:  53.5% (2000)

Population below poverty line: 44.5% (2000)

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:
3.8%

highest 10%:  20.2% (1992)

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 45.7% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 9.9 million (1999 est.)

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture 40%, industry 25%, services
35% (1998)

Unemployment rate: 11.5% (1999)

Budget: revenues:  $11.7 billion

expenditures:  $12.4 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
(1999 est.)

Industries: textiles and footwear, light machinery and auto
assembly, mining, timber, construction materials, metallurgy,
chemicals, food processing, petroleum refining

Industrial production growth rate: 8% (2000)

Electricity - production: 49.036 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  53.99%

hydro:  36.18%

nuclear:  9.81%

other:  0.02% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 44.768 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 1.935 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 1.1 billion kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: wheat, corn, sugar beets, sunflower seed,
potatoes, grapes; eggs, sheep

Exports: $11.2 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Exports - commodities: textiles and footwear 26%, metals and metal
products 15%, machinery and equipment 11%, minerals and fuels 6%
(1999)

Exports - partners: Italy 23%, Germany 18%, France 6%, Turkey 5%, US
(1999)

Imports: $11.9 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Imports - commodities: machinery and equipment 23%, fuels and
minerals 12%, chemicals 9%, textile and products 19% (1999)

Imports - partners: Italy 20%, Germany 19%, France 7%, Russia 6%
(1999)

Debt - external: $9.3 billion (2000 est.)

Currency: leu (ROL)

Currency code: ROL

Exchange rates: lei per US dollar - 26,243.0 (January 2001),
21,708.7 (2000), 15,332.8 (1999), 8,875.6 (1998), 7,167.9 (1997),
3,084.2 (1996); note - lei is the plural form of leu

Fiscal year: calendar year



Romania    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 3.777 million (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 645,500 (1999)

Telephone system: general assessment:  poor domestic service, but
improving

domestic:  90% of telephone network is automatic; trunk network is
mostly microwave radio relay, with some fiber-optic cable; about
one-third of exchange capacity is digital; roughly 3,300 villages
have no service

international:  satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat; new digital,
international, direct-dial exchanges operate in Bucharest; note -
Romania is an active participant in several international
telecommunication network projects (1999)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 40, FM 202, shortwave 3 (1998)

Radios: 7.2 million (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 48 (plus 392 repeaters) (1995)

Televisions: 5.25 million (1997)

Internet country code: .ro

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 38 (2000)

Internet users: 600,000 (2000)



Romania    Transportation

Railways: total:  11,385 km (3,888 km electrified)

standard gauge:  10,898 km

narrow gauge:  487 km (1996)

Highways: total:  153,359 km

paved:  103,671 km (including 133 km of expressways)

unpaved:  49,688 km (1998 est.)

Waterways: 1,724 km (1984)

Pipelines: crude oil 2,800 km; petroleum products 1,429 km; natural
gas 6,400 km (1992)

Ports and harbors: Braila, Constanta, Galati, Mangalia, Sulina,
Tulcea

Merchant marine: total:  95 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
695,227 GRT/931,598 DWT

ships by type:  bulk 10, cargo 71, container 1, passenger 1,
passenger/cargo 1, petroleum tanker 4, railcar carrier 2, roll
on/roll off 4, specialized tanker 1 (2000 est.)

Airports: 62 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  25

over 3,047 m:  3

2,438 to 3,047 m:  10

1,524 to 2,437 m:  12 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  37

1,524 to 2,437 m:  2

914 to 1,523 m:  12

under 914 m:  23 (2000 est.)

Heliports: 1 (2000 est.)



Romania    Military

Military branches: Army, Navy, Air and Air Defense Forces,
Paramilitary Forces, Civil Defense

Military manpower - military age: 20 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  5,899,536 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
4,962,807 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  179,951
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $720 million (FY00)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 2.2% (FY00)



Romania    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

Illicit drugs: important transshipment point for Southwest Asian
heroin transiting the Balkan route and small amounts of Latin
American cocaine bound for Western Europe

======================================================================

@Russia




Russia    Introduction

Background: The defeat of the Russian Empire in World War I led to
the seizure of power by the communists and the formation of the
USSR. The brutal rule of Josef STALIN (1924-53) strengthened Russian
dominance of the Soviet Union at a cost of tens of millions of
lives. The Soviet economy and society stagnated in the following
decades until General Secretary Mikhail GORBACHEV (1985-91)
introduced glasnost (openness) and perestroika (restructuring) in an
attempt to modernize communism, but his initiatives inadvertently
released forces that by December 1991 splintered the USSR into 15
independent republics. Since then, Russia has struggled in its
efforts to build a democratic political system and market economy to
replace the strict social, political, and economic controls of the
communist period.



Russia    Geography

Location: Northern Asia (that part west of the Urals is sometimes
included with Europe), bordering the Arctic Ocean, between Europe
and the North Pacific Ocean

Geographic coordinates: 60 00 N, 100 00 E

Map references: Asia

Area: total:  17,075,200 sq km

land:  16,995,800 sq km

water:  79,400 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly less than 1.8 times the size of the US

Land boundaries: total:  19,961 km

border countries:  Azerbaijan 284 km, Belarus 959 km, China
(southeast) 3,605 km, China (south) 40 km, Estonia 294 km, Finland
1,313 km, Georgia 723 km, Kazakhstan 6,846 km, North Korea 19 km,
Latvia 217 km, Lithuania (Kaliningrad Oblast) 227 km, Mongolia 3,485
km, Norway 167 km, Poland (Kaliningrad Oblast) 206 km, Ukraine 1,576
km

Coastline: 37,653 km

Maritime claims: continental shelf:  200-m depth or to the depth of
exploitation

exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: ranges from steppes in the south through humid continental
in much of European Russia; subarctic in Siberia to tundra climate
in the polar north; winters vary from cool along Black Sea coast to
frigid in Siberia; summers vary from warm in the steppes to cool
along Arctic coast

Terrain: broad plain with low hills west of Urals; vast coniferous
forest and tundra in Siberia; uplands and mountains along southern
border regions

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Caspian Sea -28 m

highest point:  Gora El'brus 5,633 m

Natural resources: wide natural resource base including major
deposits of oil, natural gas, coal, and many strategic minerals,
timber

note:  formidable obstacles of climate, terrain, and distance hinder
exploitation of natural resources

Land use: arable land:  8%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  4%

forests and woodland:  46%

other:  42% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 40,000 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: permafrost over much of Siberia is a major
impediment to development; volcanic activity in the Kuril Islands;
volcanoes and earthquakes on the Kamchatka Peninsula

Environment - current issues: air pollution from heavy industry,
emissions of coal-fired electric plants, and transportation in major
cities; industrial, municipal, and agricultural pollution of inland
waterways and sea coasts; deforestation; soil erosion; soil
contamination from improper application of agricultural chemicals;
scattered areas of sometimes intense radioactive contamination;
ground water contamination from toxic waste

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Air Pollution,
Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air Pollution-Sulphur 85,
Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic-Marine Living Resources,
Antarctic Seals, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change,
Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes,
Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer
Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Wetlands, Whaling

signed, but not ratified:  Air Pollution-Sulphur 94, Climate
Change-Kyoto Protocol

Geography - note: largest country in the world in terms of area but
unfavorably located in relation to major sea lanes of the world;
despite its size, much of the country lacks proper soils and
climates (either too cold or too dry) for agriculture



Russia    People

Population: 145,470,197 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  17.41% (male 12,915,026; female
12,405,341)

15-64 years:  69.78% (male 49,183,000; female 52,320,962)

65 years and over:  12.81% (male 5,941,944; female 12,703,924) (2001
est.)

Population growth rate: -0.35% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 9.35 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 13.85 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 0.98 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  0.94 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.47 male(s)/female

total population:  0.88 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 20.05 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  67.34 years

male:  62.12 years

female:  72.83 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 1.27 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 0.18% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 130,000 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: 850 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Russian(s)

adjective:  Russian

Ethnic groups: Russian 81.5%, Tatar 3.8%, Ukrainian 3%, Chuvash
1.2%, Bashkir 0.9%, Byelorussian 0.8%, Moldavian 0.7%, other 8.1%

Religions: Russian Orthodox, Muslim, other

Languages: Russian, other

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  98%

male:  100%

female:  97% (1989 est.)



Russia    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Russian Federation

conventional short form:  Russia

local long form:  Rossiyskaya Federatsiya

local short form:  Rossiya

former:  Russian Empire, Russian Soviet Federative Socialist Republic

Government type: federation

Capital: Moscow

Administrative divisions: 49 oblasts (oblastey, singular - oblast),
21 republics* (respublik, singular - respublika), 10 autonomous
okrugs**(avtonomnykh okrugov, singular - avtonomnyy okrug), 6
krays*** (krayev, singular - kray), 2 federal cities (singular -
gorod)****, and 1 autonomous oblast*****(avtonomnaya oblast');
Adygeya (Maykop)*, Aginskiy Buryatskiy (Aginskoye)**, Altay
(Gorno-Altaysk)*, Altayskiy (Barnaul)***, Amurskaya
(Blagoveshchensk), Arkhangel'skaya, Astrakhanskaya, Bashkortostan
(Ufa)*, Belgorodskaya, Bryanskaya, Buryatiya (Ulan-Ude)*, Chechnya
(Groznyy)*, Chelyabinskaya, Chitinskaya, Chukotskiy (Anadyr')**,
Chuvashiya (Cheboksary)*, Dagestan (Makhachkala)*, Evenkiyskiy
(Tura)**, Ingushetiya (Nazran')*, Irkutskaya, Ivanovskaya,
Kabardino-Balkariya (Nal'chik)*, Kaliningradskaya, Kalmykiya
(Elista)*, Kaluzhskaya, Kamchatskaya (Petropavlovsk-Kamchatskiy),
Karachayevo-Cherkesiya (Cherkessk)*, Kareliya (Petrozavodsk)*,
Kemerovskaya, Khabarovskiy***, Khakasiya (Abakan)*,
Khanty-Mansiyskiy (Khanty-Mansiysk)**, Kirovskaya, Komi
(Syktyvkar)*, Koryakskiy (Palana)**, Kostromskaya, Krasnodarskiy***,
Krasnoyarskiy***, Kurganskaya, Kurskaya, Leningradskaya, Lipetskaya,
Magadanskaya, Mariy-El (Yoshkar-Ola)*, Mordoviya (Saransk)*,
Moskovskaya, Moskva (Moscow)****, Murmanskaya, Nenetskiy
(Nar'yan-Mar)**, Nizhegorodskaya, Novgorodskaya, Novosibirskaya,
Omskaya, Orenburgskaya, Orlovskaya (Orel), Penzenskaya, Permskaya,
Komi-Permyatskiy (Kudymkar)**, Primorskiy (Vladivostok)***,
Pskovskaya, Rostovskaya, Ryazanskaya, Sakha (Yakutsk)*,
Sakhalinskaya (Yuzhno-Sakhalinsk), Samarskaya, Sankt-Peterburg
(Saint Petersburg)****, Saratovskaya, Severnaya Osetiya-Alaniya
[North Ossetia] (Vladikavkaz)*, Smolenskaya, Stavropol'skiy***,
Sverdlovskaya (Yekaterinburg), Tambovskaya, Tatarstan (Kazan')*,
Taymyrskiy (Dudinka)**, Tomskaya, Tul'skaya, Tverskaya, Tyumenskaya,
Tyva (Kyzyl)*, Udmurtiya (Izhevsk)*, Ul'yanovskaya, Ust'-Ordynskiy
Buryatskiy (Ust'-Ordynskiy)**, Vladimirskaya, Volgogradskaya,
Vologodskaya, Voronezhskaya, Yamalo-Nenetskiy (Salekhard)**,
Yaroslavskaya, Yevreyskaya*****; note - when using a place name with
an adjectival ending 'skaya' or 'skiy,' the word Oblast' or
Avonomnyy Okrug or Kray should be added to the place name

note:  the autonomous republics of Chechnya and Ingushetiya were
formerly the autonomous republic of Checheno-Ingushetia (the
boundary between Chechnya and Ingushetia has yet to be determined);
administrative divisions have the same names as their administrative
centers (exceptions have the administrative center name following in
parentheses)

Independence: 24 August 1991 (from Soviet Union)

National holiday: Russia Day, 12 June (1990)

Constitution: adopted 12 December 1993

Legal system: based on civil law system; judicial review of
legislative acts

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Vladimir Vladimirovich
PUTIN (acting president since 31 December 1999, president since 7
May 2000)

head of government:  Premier Mikhail Mikhaylovich KASYANOV (since 7
May 2000); First Deputy Premier Aleksey Leonidovich KUDRIN (since 18
May 2000), Deputy Premiers Aleksey Vasilyevich GORDEYEV (since 20
May 2000), Viktor Borisovich KHRISTENKO (since 31 May 1999), Ilya
Iosifovich KLEBANOV (since 31 May 1999), Valentina Ivanovna
MATVIYENKO (since 22 September 1998)

cabinet:  Ministries of the Government or "Government" composed of
the premier and his deputies, ministers, and other agency heads; all
are appointed by the president

note:  there is also a Presidential Administration (PA) that
provides staff and policy support to the president, drafts
presidential decrees, and coordinates policy among government
agencies; a Security Council also reports directly to the president

elections:  president elected by popular vote for a four-year term;
election last held 26 March 2000 (next to be held NA 2004); note -
no vice president; if the president dies in office, cannot exercise
his powers because of ill health, is impeached, or resigns, the
premier succeeds him; the premier serves as acting president until a
new presidential election is held, which must be within three
months; premier appointed by the president with the approval of the
Duma

election results:  Vladimir Vladimirovich PUTIN elected president;
percent of vote - PUTIN 52.9%, Gennadiy Aadreyevich ZYUGANOV 29.2%,
Grigoriy Alekseyevich YAVLINSKIY 5.8%

Legislative branch: bicameral Federal Assembly or Federalnoye
Sobraniye consists of the Federation Council or Sovet Federatsii
(178 seats; as of July 2000, members appointed by the top executive
and legislative officials in each of the 89 federal administrative
units - oblasts, krays, republics, autonomous okrugs and oblasts,
and the federal cities of Moscow and Saint Petersburg; members serve
four-year terms) and the State Duma or Gosudarstvennaya Duma (450
seats; half elected by proportional representation from party lists
winning at least 5% of the vote, and half from single-member
constituencies; members are elected by direct popular vote to serve
four-year terms)

elections:  State Duma - last held 19 December 1999 (next to be held
NA December 2003)

election results:  State Duma - percent of vote received by parties
clearing the 5% threshold entitling them to a proportional share of
the 225 party list seats - KPRF 24.29%, Unity 23.32%, OVR 13.33%,
Union of Right Forces 8.52%, LDPR 5.98%, Yabloko 5.93%; seats by
party - KPRF 113, Unity 72, OVR 67, Union of Rightist Forces 29,
LDPR 17, Yabloko 21, other 16, independents 106, repeat election
required 8, vacant 1

Judicial branch: Constitutional Court; Supreme Court; Superior Court
of Arbitration; judges for all courts are appointed for life by the
Federation Council on the recommendation of the president

Political parties and leaders: Agrarian Party [Mikhail Ivanovich
LAPSHIN]; Communist Party of the Russian Federation or KPRF
[Gennadiy Andreyevich ZYUGANOV]; Fatherland-All Russia or OVR [Yuriy
Mikhailovich LUZHKOV]; Liberal Democratic Party of Russia or LDPR
[Vladimir Volfovich ZHIRINOVSKIY]; Union of Right Forces [Anatoliy
Borisovich CHUBAYS, Yegor Timurovich GAYDAR, Irina Mutsuovna
KHAKAMADA, Boris Yefimovich NEMTSOV]; Unity [Sergey Kuzhugetovich
SHOYGU]; Yabloko Bloc [Grigoriy Alekseyevich YAVLINSKIY]

note:  some 150 political parties, blocs, and movements registered
with the Justice Ministry as of the 19 December 1998 deadline to be
eligible to participate in the 19 December 1999 Duma elections; of
these, 36 political organizations actually qualified to run slates
of candidates on the Duma party list ballot, 6 parties cleared the
5% threshold to win a proportional share of the 225 party seats in
the Duma, 9 other organizations hold seats in the Duma: Bloc of
Nikolayev and Academician Fedorov, Congress of Russian Communities,
Movement in Support of the Army, Our Home Is Russia, Party of
Pensioners, Power to the People, Russian All-People's Union, Russian
Socialist Party, and Spiritual Heritage; primary political blocs
include pro-market democrats - (Yabloko Bloc and Union of Right
Forces), anti-market and/or ultranationalist (Communist Party of the
Russian Federation and Liberal Democratic Party of Russia)

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: APEC, ASEAN (dialogue
partner), BIS, BSEC, CBSS, CCC, CE, CERN (observer), CIS, EAPC,
EBRD, ECE, ESCAP, G- 8, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA,
IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC,
IOM (observer), ISO, ITU, LAIA (observer), MINURSO, MONUC, NAM
(guest), NSG, OAS (observer), OPCW, OSCE, PCA, PFP, UN, UN Security
Council, UNAMSIL, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNIKOM, UNITAR,
UNMEE, UNMIBH, UNMIK, UNMOP, UNOMIG, UNTAET, UNTSO, UPU, WFTU, WHO,
WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO (observer), ZC

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Yuriy Viktorovich USHAKOV

chancery:  2650 Wisconsin Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20007

telephone:  [1] (202) 298-5700, 5701, 5704, 5708

FAX:  [1] (202) 298-5735

consulate(s) general:  New York, San Francisco, and Seattle

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
James F. COLLINS

embassy:  Novinskiy Bul'var 19/23, 121099 Moscow

mailing address:  APO AE 09721

telephone:  [7] (095) 728-5000

FAX:  [7] (095) 728-5203

consulate(s) general:  Saint Petersburg, Vladivostok, Yekaterinburg

Flag description: three equal horizontal bands of white (top), blue,
and red



Russia    Economy

Economy - overview: A decade after the implosion of the Soviet Union
in 1991, Russia is still struggling to establish a modern market
economy and achieve strong economic growth. In contrast to its
trading partners in Central Europe - which were able to overcome the
initial production declines that accompanied the launch of market
reforms within three to five years - Russia saw its economy contract
for five years, as the executive and legislature dithered over the
implementation of many of the basic foundations of a market economy.
Russia achieved a slight recovery in 1997, but the government's
stubborn budget deficits and the country's poor business climate
made it vulnerable when the global financial crisis swept through in
1998. The crisis culminated in the August depreciation of the ruble,
a debt default by the government, and a sharp deterioration in
living standards for most of the population. The economy rebounded
in 1999 and 2000, buoyed by the competitive boost from the weak
ruble and a surging trade surplus fueled by rising world oil prices.
This recovery, along with a renewed government effort in 2000 to
advance lagging structural reforms, have raised business and
investor confidence over Russia's prospects in its second decade of
transition. Yet serious problems persist. Russia remains heavily
dependent on exports of commodities, particularly oil, natural gas,
metals, and timber, which account for over 80% of exports, leaving
the country vulnerable to swings in world prices. Russia's
agricultural sector remains beset by uncertainty over land ownership
rights, which has discouraged needed investment and restructuring.
Another threat is negative demographic trends, fueled by low birth
rates and a deteriorating health situation - including an alarming
rise in AIDS cases - that have contributed to a nearly 2% drop in
the population since 1992. Russia's industrial base is increasingly
dilapidated and must be replaced or modernized if the country is to
achieve sustainable economic growth. Other problems include
widespread corruption, capital flight, and brain drain.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $1.12 trillion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 6.3% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $7,700 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  7%

industry:  34%

services:  59% (1999 est.)

Population below poverty line: 40% (1999 est.)

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:
1.7%

highest 10%:  38.7% (1998)

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 20.6% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 66 million (1997)

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture 15%, industry 30%, services
55% (1999 est.)

Unemployment rate: 10.5% (2000 est.), plus considerable
underemployment

Budget: revenues:  $40 billion

expenditures:  $33.7 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
(2000 est.)

Industries: complete range of mining and extractive industries
producing coal, oil, gas, chemicals, and metals; all forms of
machine building from rolling mills to high-performance aircraft and
space vehicles; shipbuilding; road and rail transportation
equipment; communications equipment; agricultural machinery,
tractors, and construction equipment; electric power generating and
transmitting equipment; medical and scientific instruments; consumer
durables, textiles, foodstuffs, handicrafts

Industrial production growth rate: 8.8% (2000 est.)

Electricity - production: 798.065 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  66.31%

hydro:  19.79%

nuclear:  13.9%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 728.2 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 20 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 6 billion kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: grain, sugar beets, sunflower seed,
vegetables, fruits; beef, milk

Exports: $105.1 billion (2000 est.)

Exports - commodities: petroleum and petroleum products, natural
gas, wood and wood products, metals, chemicals, and a wide variety
of civilian and military manufactures

Exports - partners: US 8.8%, Germany 8.5%, Ukraine 6.5%, Belarus
5.1%, Italy 5%, Netherlands 4.8% (1999)

Imports: $44.2 billion (2000 est.)

Imports - commodities: machinery and equipment, consumer goods,
medicines, meat, grain, sugar, semifinished metal products

Imports - partners: Germany 13.8%, Belarus 10.7%, Ukraine 8.3%, US
7.9%, Kazakhstan 4.6%, Italy 3.8% (1999)

Debt - external: $163 billion (2000 est.)

Economic aid - recipient: $8.523 billion (1995)

Currency: Russian ruble (RUR)

Currency code: RUR

Exchange rates: Russian rubles per US dollar - 28.3592 (January
2001), 28.1292 (2000), 24.6199 (1999), 9.7051 (1998), 5,785 (1997),
5,121 (1996)

note:  the post-1 January 1998 ruble is equal to 1,000 of the pre-1
January 1998 rubles

Fiscal year: calendar year



Russia    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 30 million (1998)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 2.5 million (October 2000)

Telephone system: general assessment:  the telephone system has
undergone significant changes in the 1990s; there are more than
1,000 companies licensed to offer communication services; access to
digital lines has improved, particularly in urban centers; Internet
and e-mail services are improving; Russia has made progress toward
building the telecommunications infrastructure necessary for a
market economy; however, a large demand for main line service
remains unsatisfied

domestic:  cross-country digital trunk lines run from Saint
Petersburg to Khabarovsk, and from Moscow to Novorossiysk; the
telephone systems in 60 regional capitals have modern digital
infrastructures; cellular services, both analog and digital, are
available in many areas; in rural areas, the telephone services are
still outdated, inadequate, and low density

international:  Russia is connected internationally by three
undersea fiber-optic cables; digital switches in several cities
provide more than 50,000 lines for international calls; satellite
earth stations provide access to Intelsat, Intersputnik, Eutelsat,
Inmarsat, and Orbita systems

Radio broadcast stations: AM 420, FM 447, shortwave 56 (1998)

Radios: 61.5 million (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 7,306 (1998)

Televisions: 60.5 million (1997)

Internet country code: .ru

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 35 (2000)

Internet users: 9.2 million (2000)



Russia    Transportation

Railways: total:  149,000 km

note:  86,000 km are in common carrier service; 63,000 km serve
specific industries and are not available for common carrier use;
40,000 km of the railway in common carrier use are electrified

broad gauge:  149,000 km 1.520-m gauge (1998)

Highways: total:  952,000 km

paved:  752,000 km (including, in addition to about 336,000 km of
conventionally paved roads, about 416,000 km of roads, the surfaces
of which have been stabilized with gravel or other coarse
aggregates, making them trafficable in wet weather)

unpaved:  200,000 km (these roads are made of unstabilized earth and
are difficult to negotiate in wet weather) (1998)

Waterways: 95,900 km (total routes in general use)

note:  routes with navigation guides serving the Russian River
Fleet-95,900 km; routes with night navigational aids-60,400 km;
man-made navigable routes-16,900 km (Jan 1994)

Pipelines: crude oil 48,000 km; petroleum products 15,000 km;
natural gas 140,000 km (June 1993 est.)

Ports and harbors: Arkhangel'sk, Astrakhan', Kaliningrad, Kazan',
Khabarovsk, Kholmsk, Krasnoyarsk, Moscow, Murmansk, Nakhodka,
Nevel'sk, Novorossiysk, Petropavlovsk-Kamchatskiy, Saint Petersburg,
Rostov, Sochi, Tuapse, Vladivostok, Volgograd, Vostochnyy, Vyborg

Merchant marine: total:  878 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
4,314,485 GRT/5,344,958 DWT

ships by type:  barge carrier 1, bulk 20, cargo 543, chemical tanker
4, combination bulk 21, combination ore/oil 7, container 31,
multi-functional large-load carrier 1, passenger 35, passenger/cargo
3, petroleum tanker 164, refrigerated cargo 24, roll on/roll off 17,
short-sea passenger 7

note:  includes a foreign-owned ship registered here as a flag of
convenience: Reunion 1 (2000 est.)

Airports: 2,743 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  471

over 3,047 m:  56

2,438 to 3,047 m:  178

1,524 to 2,437 m:  76

914 to 1,523 m:  69

under 914 m:  92 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  2,272

over 3,047 m:  28

2,438 to 3,047 m:  118

1,524 to 2,437 m:  204

914 to 1,523 m:  324

under 914 m:  1,598 (2000 est.)



Russia    Military

Military branches: Ground Forces, Navy, Air Force, Strategic Rocket
Forces

Military manpower - military age: 18 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  38,866,147 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
30,337,743 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:
1,242,778 (2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $NA

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: NA%



Russia    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: dispute over at least two small sections
of the boundary with China remains to be settled, despite 1997
boundary agreement; islands of Etorofu, Kunashiri, and Shikotan and
the Habomai group occupied by the Soviet Union in 1945, now
administered by Russia, claimed by Japan; Caspian Sea boundaries are
not yet determined among Azerbaijan, Iran, Kazakhstan, Russia, and
Turkmenistan; Estonian and Russian negotiators reached a technical
border agreement in December 1996, which has not been signed or
ratified by Russia as of February 2001; draft treaty delimiting the
boundary with Latvia has not been signed; 1997 border agreement with
Lithuania not yet ratified; has made no territorial claim in
Antarctica (but has reserved the right to do so) and does not
recognize the claims of any other nation; Svalbard is the focus of a
maritime boundary dispute between Norway and Russia

Illicit drugs: limited cultivation of illicit cannabis and opium
poppy and producer of amphetamine, mostly for domestic consumption;
government has active eradication program; increasingly used as
transshipment point for Southwest and Southeast Asian opiates and
cannabis and Latin American cocaine to Western Europe, possibly to
the US, and growing domestic market; major source of heroin
precursor chemicals; corruption and organized crime are major
concerns; heroin an increasing threat in domestic drug market

======================================================================

@Rwanda




Rwanda    Introduction

Background: In 1959, three years before independence, the majority
ethnic group, the Hutus overthrew the ruling Tutsi king. Over the
next several years thousands of Tutsis were killed, and some 150,000
driven into exile in neighboring countries. The children of these
exiles later formed a rebel group, the Rwandan Patriotic Front (RPF)
and began a civil war in 1990. The war, along with several political
and economic upheavals, exacerbated ethnic tensions culminating in
April 1994 in the genocide of roughly 800,000 Tutsis and moderate
Hutus. The Tutsi rebels defeated the Hutu regime and ended the
killing in July 1994, but approximately 2 million Hutu refugees -
many fearing Tutsi retribution - fled to neighboring Burundi,
Tanzania, Uganda, and Zaire, now called the Democratic Republic of
the Congo (DROC). Since then most of the refugees have returned to
Rwanda. Despite substantial international assistance and political
reforms - including Rwanda's first local elections in March 1999 -
the country continues to struggle to boost investment and
agricultural output and to foster reconciliation. A series of
massive population displacements, a nagging Hutu extremist
insurgency, and Rwandan involvement in two wars over the past four
years in the neighboring DROC continue to hinder Rwanda's efforts.



Rwanda    Geography

Location: Central Africa, east of Democratic Republic of the Congo

Geographic coordinates: 2 00 S, 30 00 E

Map references: Africa

Area: total:  26,338 sq km

land:  24,948 sq km

water:  1,390 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly smaller than Maryland

Land boundaries: total:  893 km

border countries:  Burundi 290 km, Democratic Republic of the Congo
217 km, Tanzania 217 km, Uganda 169 km

Coastline: 0 km (landlocked)

Maritime claims: none (landlocked)

Climate: temperate; two rainy seasons (February to April, November
to January); mild in mountains with frost and snow possible

Terrain: mostly grassy uplands and hills; relief is mountainous with
altitude declining from west to east

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Rusizi River 950 m

highest point:  Volcan Karisimbi 4,519 m

Natural resources: gold, cassiterite (tin ore), wolframite (tungsten
ore), methane, hydropower, arable land

Land use: arable land:  35%

permanent crops:  13%

permanent pastures:  18%

forests and woodland:  22%

other:  12% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 40 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: periodic droughts; the volcanic Virunga mountains
are in the northwest along the border with Democratic Republic of
the Congo

Environment - current issues: deforestation results from
uncontrolled cutting of trees for fuel; overgrazing; soil
exhaustion; soil erosion; widespread poaching

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species, Nuclear Test Ban

signed, but not ratified:  Law of the Sea

Geography - note: landlocked; predominantly rural population



Rwanda    People

Population: 7,312,756

note:  estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
life expectancy, higher infant mortality and death rates, lower
population and growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  42.4% (male 1,555,878; female 1,544,942)

15-64 years:  54.73% (male 1,989,501; female 2,013,012)

65 years and over:  2.87% (male 83,769; female 125,654) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 1.16% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 33.97 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 21.13 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: -1.21 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.03 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.01 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  0.99 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.67 male(s)/female

total population:  0.99 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 118.92 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  38.99 years

male:  38.35 years

female:  39.65 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 4.89 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 11.21% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 400,000 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: 40,000 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Rwandan(s)

adjective:  Rwandan

Ethnic groups: Hutu 84%, Tutsi 15%, Twa (Pygmoid) 1%

Religions: Roman Catholic 52.7%, Protestant 24%, Adventist 10.4%,
Muslim 1.9%, indigenous beliefs and other 6.5%, none 4.5% (1996)

Languages: Kinyarwanda (official) universal Bantu vernacular, French
(official), English (official), Kiswahili (Swahili) used in
commercial centers

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  48%

male:  52%

female:  45% (1995 est.)



Rwanda    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Rwandese Republic

conventional short form:  Rwanda

local long form:  Republika y'u Rwanda

local short form:  Rwanda

former:  Ruanda

Government type: republic; presidential, multiparty system

Capital: Kigali

Administrative divisions: 12 prefectures (in French - prefectures,
singular - prefecture; in Kinyarwanda - plural - NA, singular -
prefegitura); Butare, Byumba, Cyangugu, Gikongoro, Gisenyi,
Gitarama, Kibungo, Kibuye, Kigali Rurale, Kigali-ville, Umutara,
Ruhengeri

Independence: 1 July 1962 (from Belgium-administered UN trusteeship)

National holiday: Independence Day, 1 July (1962)

Constitution: on 5 May 1995, the Transitional National Assembly
adopted as Fundamental Law the constitution of 18 June 1991,
provisions of the 1993 Arusha peace accord, the July 1994
Declaration by the Rwanda Patriotic Front, and the November 1994
multiparty protocol of understanding

Legal system: based on German and Belgian civil law systems and
customary law; judicial review of legislative acts in the Supreme
Court; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal adult

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Maj. Gen. Paul KAGAME
(FPR) (since 22 April 2000)

head of government:  Prime Minister Bernard MAKUZA (since 8 March
2000)

cabinet:  Council of Ministers appointed by the president

elections:  normally the president is elected by popular vote for a
five-year term; special election for new president by deputies of
the National Assembly and governmental ministers held 17 April 2000
(next national election to be held NA 2003); prime minister is
appointed by the president

election results:  Paul KAGAME (FPR) elected president in a special
parliamentary/ministerial ballot receiving 81 of a possible 86 votes

Legislative branch: unicameral Transitional National Assembly or
Assemblee Nationale de Transition (a power-sharing body with 70
seats established on 12 December 1994 following a multiparty
protocol of understanding; members were named by their parties,
number of seats per party predetermined by the Arusha peace accord)

note:  four additional seats, two for women and two for youth, added
in 2001

elections:  the last national legislative elections were held 16
December 1988 for the National Development Council (the legislature
prior to the advent of the Transitional National Assembly); no
elections have been held for the Transitional National Assembly as
the distribution of seats was predetermined by the Arusha peace
accord

election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
FPR 13, MDR 13, PSD 13, PL 13, PDC 6, RPA 6, PSR 2, PDI 2, UDPR 2;
note - the distribution of seats was predetermined, four additional
seats (two for women and two for youth) added in 2001

Judicial branch: Supreme Court; communal courts; appeals courts

Political parties and leaders: Centrist Democratic Party or PDC
[Jean-Nipomuscene NAYINZIRA]; Democratic Socialist Party or PSD
[Charles NTAKIRUTINKA, Vincent BIRUTA, Augusin IYAMUREMYE];
Democratic Popular Union of Rwanda or UDPR [Adrien RANGIRA];
Democratic Republican Movement or MDR [Celestin KABANDA, Emile
NTWARABAKIGA, Christian MARARA]; Islamic Democratic Party or PDI
[Andre BUMAYA]; Liberal Party or PL [Pie MUGABO, Enock KABERA,
Prosper MUGIRANEZA]; Rwanda Patriotic Army or RPA [Maj. Gen. Paul
KAGAME, commander]; Rwanda Patriotic Front or FPR [Maj. Gen. Paul
KAGAME]; Rwandan Socialist Party or PSR [Medard RUTIJANWA]

Political pressure groups and leaders: IBUKA - association of
genocide survivors

International organization participation: ACCT, ACP, AfDB, CCC,
CEEAC, CEPGL, ECA, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IFAD,
IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM (observer), ISO
(correspondent), ITU, NAM, OAU, OPCW, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO,
UPU, WCL, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Richard SEZIBERA

chancery:  1714 New Hampshire Ave. NW, Washington, DC 20009

telephone:  [1] (202) 232-2882

FAX:  [1] (202) 232-4544

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
George M. STAPLES

embassy:  Boulevard de la Revolution, Kigali

mailing address:  B. P. 28, Kigali

telephone:  [250] 756 01 through 03, 721 26, 771 47

FAX:  [250] 721 28

Flag description: three equal vertical bands of red (hoist side),
yellow, and green with a large black letter R centered in the yellow
band; uses the popular pan-African colors of Ethiopia; similar to
the flag of Guinea, which has a plain yellow band



Rwanda    Economy

Economy - overview: Rwanda is a rural country with about 90% of the
population engaged in (mainly subsistence) agriculture. It is the
most densely populated country in Africa; is landlocked; and has few
natural resources and minimal industry. Primary exports are coffee
and tea. The 1994 genocide decimated Rwanda's fragile economic base,
severely impoverished the population, particularly women, and eroded
the country's ability to attract private and external investment.
However, Rwanda has made significant progress in stabilizing and
rehabilitating its economy. GDP has rebounded, and inflation has
been curbed. In June 1998, Rwanda signed an Enhanced Structural
Adjustment Facility (ESAF) with the IMF. Rwanda has also embarked
upon an ambitious privatization program with the World Bank.
Continued growth in 2001 depends on the maintenance of international
aid levels and the strengthening of world prices of coffee and tea.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $6.4 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 5.8% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $900 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  40%

industry:  20%

services:  40% (2000 est.)

Population below poverty line: 70% (2000 est.)

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:
4.2%

highest 10%:  24.2% (1983-85)

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 4% (2000)

Labor force: 3.6 million

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture 90%

Unemployment rate: NA%

Budget: revenues:  $198 million

expenditures:  $411 million, including capital expenditures of $NA
(2000 est.)

Industries: cement, agricultural products, small-scale beverages,
soap, furniture, shoes, plastic goods, textiles, cigarettes

Industrial production growth rate: 8.7% (1998 est.)

Electricity - production: 132 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  3.03%

hydro:  96.97%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 191.8 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 1 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 70 million kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: coffee, tea, pyrethrum (insecticide made
from chrysanthemums), bananas, beans, sorghum, potatoes; livestock

Exports: $68.4 million (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Exports - commodities: coffee, tea, hides, tin ore

Exports - partners: Germany, Belgium, Pakistan, Italy, Kenya

Imports: $245.9 million (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Imports - commodities: foodstuffs, machinery and equipment, steel,
petroleum products, cement and construction material

Imports - partners: Kenya, Tanzania, US, Benelux, France, India

Debt - external: $1.3 billion (1999)

Economic aid - recipient: $591.5 million (1997); note - in summer
1998, Rwanda presented its policy objectives and development
priorities to donor governments resulting in multiyear pledges in
the amount of $250 million

Currency: Rwandan franc (RWF)

Currency code: RWF

Exchange rates: Rwandan francs per US dollar - 432.24 (January
2001), 389.70 (2000), 333.94 (1999) 312.31 (1998), 301.53 (1997),
306.82 (1996)

Fiscal year: calendar year



Rwanda    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 15,000 (1995)

Telephones - mobile cellular: NA

note:  however, Rwanda has mobile cellular service between Kigali
and several prefecture capitals (2000)

Telephone system: general assessment:  telephone system primarily
serves business and government

domestic:  the capital, Kigali, is connected to the centers of the
prefectures by microwave radio relay; the remainder of the network
depends on wire and HF radiotelephone

international:  international connections employ microwave radio
relay to neighboring countries and satellite communications to more
distant countries; satellite earth stations - 1 Intelsat (Indian
Ocean) in Kigali (includes telex and telefax service)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 0, FM 3, shortwave 1 (1998)

Radios: 601,000 (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 2 (1997)

Televisions: NA; probably less than 1,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .rw

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 1 (2000)

Internet users: 1,000 (2000)



Rwanda    Transportation

Railways: 0 km

Highways: total:  12,000 km

paved:  1,000 km

unpaved:  11,000 km (1997 est.)

Waterways: note:  Lac Kivu navigable by shallow-draft barges and
native craft

Ports and harbors: Cyangugu, Gisenyi, Kibuye

Airports: 8 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  4

over 3,047 m:  1

914 to 1,523 m:  2

under 914 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  4

914 to 1,523 m:  1

under 914 m:  3 (2000 est.)



Rwanda    Military

Military branches: Army, Navy, Air Force

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  1,815,633 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
924,544 (2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $58 million (FY01)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 3.2% (FY01)



Rwanda    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: Rwandan military forces are supporting the
rebel forces in the civil war in the Democratic Republic of the Congo

======================================================================

@Saint Helena





Saint Helena    Introduction

Background: Uninhabited when first discovered by the Portuguese in
1502, St. Helena was garrisoned by the British during the 17th
century. It acquired fame as the place of Napoleon BONAPARTE's
exile, from 1815 until his death in 1821, but its importance as a
port of call declined after the opening of the Suez Canal in 1869.
Ascension Island is the site of a US Air Force auxiliary airfield;
Gough Island has a meteorological station.



Saint Helena    Geography

Location: islands in the South Atlantic Ocean, about mid-way between
South America and Africa

Geographic coordinates: 15 56 S, 5 42 W

Map references: Africa

Area: total:  410 sq km

land:  410 sq km

water:  0 sq km

note:  includes St. Helena Island, Ascension, and the island group
of Tristan da Cunha, which consists of Tristan da Cunha Island,
Gough Island, Inaccessible Island, and the three Nightingale Islands

Area - comparative: slightly more than two times the size of
Washington, DC

Land boundaries: 0 km

Coastline: 60 km

Maritime claims: exclusive fishing zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: Saint Helena - tropical; marine; mild, tempered by trade
winds; Tristan da Cunha - temperate; marine, mild, tempered by trade
winds (tends to be cooler than Saint Helena)

Terrain: Saint Helena - rugged, volcanic; small scattered plateaus
and plains

note:  the other islands of the group have a volcanic origin

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Atlantic Ocean 0 m

highest point:  Queen Mary's Peak on Tristan da Cunha 2,060 m

Natural resources: fish

Land use: arable land:  6%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  6%

forests and woodland:  6%

other:  82% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: NA sq km

Natural hazards: active volcanism on Tristan da Cunha

Environment - current issues: NA

Geography - note: harbors at least 40 species of plants unknown
anywhere else in the world; Ascension is a breeding ground for sea
turtles and sooty terns



Saint Helena    People

Population: 7,266 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  19.08% (male 699; female 687)

15-64 years:  71.72% (male 2,711; female 2,500)

65 years and over:  9.2% (male 286; female 383) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 0.72% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 13.49 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 6.33 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.04 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.02 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1.08 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.75 male(s)/female

total population:  1.04 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 22.38 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  77.01 years

male:  74.13 years

female:  80.04 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 1.53 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: NA%

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: NA

HIV/AIDS - deaths: NA

Nationality: noun:  Saint Helenian(s)

adjective:  Saint Helenian

Ethnic groups: African descent 50%, white 25%, Chinese 25%

Religions: Anglican (majority), Baptist, Seventh-Day Adventist,
Roman Catholic

Languages: English

Literacy: definition:  age 20 and over can read and write

total population:  97%

male:  97%

female:  98% (1987 est.)



Saint Helena    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  none

conventional short form:  Saint Helena

Dependency status: overseas territory of the UK

Government type: NA

Capital: Jamestown

Administrative divisions: 1 administrative area and 2 dependencies*;
Ascension*, Saint Helena, Tristan da Cunha*

Independence: none (overseas territory of the UK)

National holiday: Birthday of Queen ELIZABETH II, second Saturday in
June (1926)

Constitution: 1 January 1989

Legal system: NA

Suffrage: NA years of age

Executive branch: chief of state:  Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6
February 1952)

head of government:  Governor and Commander in Chief David HOLLAMBY
(since NA June 1999)

cabinet:  Executive Council consists of the governor, two ex officio
officers, and six elected members of the Legislative Council

elections:  none; the monarch is hereditary; governor is appointed
by the monarch

Legislative branch: unicameral Legislative Council (15 seats,
including the speaker, 3 ex officio and 12 elected members; members
are elected by popular vote to serve four-year terms)

elections:  last held 9 July 1997 (next to be held NA August 2001)

election results:  percent of vote - NA%; seats - independents 15

Judicial branch: Supreme Court; Magistrate's Court; Small Debts
Court; Juvenile Court

Political parties and leaders: none

Political pressure groups and leaders: none

International organization participation: ICFTU

Diplomatic representation in the US: none (overseas territory of the
UK)

Diplomatic representation from the US: none (overseas territory of
the UK)

Flag description: blue with the flag of the UK in the upper
hoist-side quadrant and the Saint Helenian shield centered on the
outer half of the flag; the shield features a rocky coastline and
three-masted sailing ship



Saint Helena    Economy

Economy - overview: The economy depends largely on financial
assistance from the UK, which amounted to about $5 million in 1997
or almost one-half of annual budgetary revenues. The local
population earns income from fishing, the raising of livestock, and
sales of handicrafts. Because there are few jobs, 25% of the work
force has left to seek employment on Ascension Island, on the
Falklands, and in the UK.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $18 million (1998 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: NA%

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $2,500 (1998 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  NA%

industry:  NA%

services:  NA%

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 3.2% (1997 est.)

Labor force: 3,500 (1998 est.)

note:  1,200 of whom are working offshore

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture and fishing 6%, industry
(mainly construction) 48%, services 46% (1987 est.)

Unemployment rate: 14% (1998 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $11.2 million

expenditures:  $11 million, including capital expenditures of $NA
(FY92)

Industries: construction, crafts (furniture, lacework, fancy
woodwork), fishing

Industrial production growth rate: NA%

Electricity - production: 6 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  100%

hydro:  0%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 5.6 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: corn, potatoes, vegetables; timber; fish,
crawfish (on Tristan da Cunha)

Exports: $704,000 (f.o.b., 1995)

Exports - commodities: fish (frozen, canned, and salt-dried
skipjack, tuna), coffee, handicrafts

Exports - partners: South Africa, UK

Imports: $14.434 million (c.i.f., 1995)

Imports - commodities: food, beverages, tobacco, fuel oils, animal
feed, building materials, motor vehicles and parts, machinery and
parts

Imports - partners: UK, South Africa

Debt - external: $NA

Economic aid - recipient: $12.6 million (1995); note - $5.3 million
from UK (1997)

Currency: Saint Helenian pound (SHP)

Currency code: SHP

Exchange rates: Saint Helenian pounds per US dollar - 0.6764
(January 2001), 0.6596 (2000), 0.6180 (1999), 0.6037 (1998), 0.6047
(1997), 0.6403 (1996); note - the Saint Helenian pound is at par
with the British pound

Fiscal year: 1 April - 31 March



Saint Helena    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 2,000 (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 0 (1997)

Telephone system: general assessment:  can communicate with any
place in the world

domestic:  automatic network

international:  HF radiotelephone from Saint Helena to Ascension
which is a major coaxial submarine cable relay point between South
Africa, Portugal, and UK ; satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat
(Atlantic Ocean)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 1, FM 0, shortwave 0 (1998)

Radios: 3,000 (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 0 (1997)

Televisions: 2,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .sh

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 1 (2000)

Internet users: NA

Communications - note: Gough Island has a meteorological station



Saint Helena    Transportation

Railways: 0 km

Highways: total:  158 km (Saint Helena 118 km, Ascension 40 km,
Tristan da Cunha 0 km)

paved:  138 km (Saint Helena 98km, Ascension 40 km, Tristan da Cunha
0 km)

unpaved:  NA km 20 km (Saint Helena 20 km, Ascension 0 km, Tristan
da Cunha 0 km)

Waterways: none

Ports and harbors: Georgetown (on Ascension), Jamestown

Merchant marine: none (2000 est.)

Airports: 1 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  1

over 3,047 m:  1 (2000 est.)



Saint Helena    Military

Military - note: defense is the responsibility of the UK



Saint Helena    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

======================================================================

@Saint Kitts and Nevis




Saint Kitts and Nevis    Introduction

Background: First settled by the British in 1623, the islands became
an associated state with full internal autonomy in 1967. The island
of Anguilla rebelled and was allowed to secede in 1971. Saint Kitts
and Nevis achieved independence in 1983. In 1998, a vote in Nevis on
a referendum to separate from Saint Kitts fell short of the
two-thirds majority needed.



Saint Kitts and Nevis    Geography

Location: Caribbean, islands in the Caribbean Sea, about one-third
of the way from Puerto Rico to Trinidad and Tobago

Geographic coordinates: 17 20 N, 62 45 W

Map references: Central America and the Caribbean

Area: total:  261 sq km (Saint Kitts 168 sq km; Nevis 93 sq km)

land:  261 sq km

water:  0 sq km

Area - comparative: 1.5 times the size of Washington, DC

Land boundaries: 0 km

Coastline: 135 km

Maritime claims: contiguous zone:  24 NM

continental shelf:  200 NM or to the edge of the continental margin

territorial sea:  12 NM

exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

Climate: tropical tempered by constant sea breezes; little seasonal
temperature variation; rainy season (May to November)

Terrain: volcanic with mountainous interiors

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Caribbean Sea 0 m

highest point:  Mount Liamuiga 1,156 m

Natural resources: arable land

Land use: arable land:  22%

permanent crops:  17%

permanent pastures:  3%

forests and woodland:  17%

other:  41% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: NA sq km

Natural hazards: hurricanes (July to October)

Environment - current issues: NA

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous
Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution,
Whaling

signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements



Saint Kitts and Nevis    People

Population: 38,756 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  29.84% (male 5,909; female 5,654)

15-64 years:  61.37% (male 11,870; female 11,915)

65 years and over:  8.79% (male 1,406; female 2,002) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: -0.11% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 18.78 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 9.21 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: -10.68 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.06 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.7 male(s)/female

total population:  0.98 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 16.28 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  71.01 years

male:  68.22 years

female:  73.97 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 2.41 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: NA%

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: NA

HIV/AIDS - deaths: NA

Nationality: noun:  Kittitian(s), Nevisian(s)

adjective:  Kittitian, Nevisian

Ethnic groups: predominantly black some British, Portuguese, and
Lebanese

Religions: Anglican, other Protestant, Roman Catholic

Languages: English

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over has ever attended school

total population:  97%

male:  97%

female:  98% (1980 est.)



Saint Kitts and Nevis    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Federation of Saint Kitts and
Nevis

conventional short form:  Saint Kitts and Nevis

former:  Federation of Saint Christopher and Nevis

Government type: constitutional monarchy with Westminster-style
parliament

Capital: Basseterre

Administrative divisions: 14 parishes; Christ Church Nichola Town,
Saint Anne Sandy Point, Saint George Basseterre, Saint George
Gingerland, Saint James Windward, Saint John Capisterre, Saint John
Figtree, Saint Mary Cayon, Saint Paul Capisterre, Saint Paul
Charlestown, Saint Peter Basseterre, Saint Thomas Lowland, Saint
Thomas Middle Island, Trinity Palmetto Point

Independence: 19 September 1983 (from UK)

National holiday: Independence Day, 19 September (1983)

Constitution: 19 September 1983

Legal system: based on English common law

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6
February 1952), represented by Governor General Perlette LOUISY
(since September 1997)

head of government:  Prime Minister Dr. Denzil DOUGLAS (since 6 July
1995) and Deputy Prime Minister Sam CONDOR (since 6 July 1995)

cabinet:  Cabinet appointed by the governor general in consultation
with the prime minister

elections:  none; the monarch is hereditary; the governor general is
appointed by the monarch; following legislative elections, the
leader of the majority party or leader of a majority coalition is
usually appointed prime minister by the governor general; deputy
prime minister appointed by the governor general

Legislative branch: unicameral National Assembly (14 seats, 3
appointed and 11 popularly elected from single-member
constituencies; members serve five-year terms)

elections:  last held 6 March 2000 (next to be held by July 2005)

election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
SKNLP 8, CCM 2, NRP 1

Judicial branch: Eastern Caribbean Supreme Court (based on Saint
Lucia; one judge of the Supreme Court resides in Saint Kitts and
Nevis)

Political parties and leaders: Concerned Citizens Movement or CCM
[Vance AMORY]; Nevis Reformation Party or NRP [Joseph PARRY];
People's Action Movement or PAM [Lindsey GRANT]; Saint Kitts and
Nevis Labor Party or SKNLP [Dr. Denzil DOUGLAS]

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: ACP, C, Caricom, CDB,
ECLAC, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO,
IMF, Interpol, IOC, OAS, OECS, OPANAL, OPCW, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO,
UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WHO, WIPO, WTrO

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Dr. Osbert W. LIBURD

chancery:  3216 New Mexico Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20016

telephone:  [1] (202) 686-2636

FAX:  [1] (202) 686-5740

Diplomatic representation from the US: the US does not have an
embassy in Saint Kitts and Nevis; the US Ambassador in Barbados is
accredited to Saint Kitts and Nevis

Flag description: divided diagonally from the lower hoist side by a
broad black band bearing two white, five-pointed stars; the black
band is edged in yellow; the upper triangle is green, the lower
triangle is red



Saint Kitts and Nevis    Economy

Economy - overview: The economy has traditionally depended on the
growing and processing of sugarcane; decreasing world prices have
hurt the industry in recent years. Tourism, export-oriented
manufacturing, and offshore banking activity have assumed larger
roles. Most food is imported. The government has undertaken a
program designed to revitalize the faltering sugar sector. It is
also working to improve revenue collection in order to better fund
social programs. In 1997 some leaders in Nevis were urging
separation from Saint Kitts on the basis that Nevis was paying far
more in taxes than it was receiving in government services, but the
vote on cessation failed in August 1998. In late September 1998,
Hurricane Georges caused approximately $445 million in damages and
limited GDP growth for the year.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $274 million (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 5% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $7,000 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  5.5%

industry:  22.5%

services:  72% (1996)

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 2.5% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 18,172 (June 1995)

Labor force - by occupation: NA

Unemployment rate: 4.5% (1997)

Budget: revenues:  $64.1 million

expenditures:  $73.3 million, including capital expenditures of
$10.4 million (1997 est.)

Industries: sugar processing, tourism, cotton, salt, copra,
clothing, footwear, beverages

Industrial production growth rate: NA%

Electricity - production: 90 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  100%

hydro:  0%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 83.7 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: sugarcane, rice, yams, vegetables, bananas;
fish

Exports: $53.2 million (2000 est.)

Exports - commodities: machinery, food, electronics, beverages,
tobacco

Exports - partners: US 68.5%, UK 22.3%, Caricom countries 5.5% (1995
est.)

Imports: $151.5 million (2000 est.)

Imports - commodities: machinery, manufactures, food, fuels

Imports - partners: US 42.4%, Caricom countries 17.2%, UK 11.3%
(1995 est.)

Debt - external: $115.1 million (1998)

Economic aid - recipient: $5.5 million (1995)

Currency: East Caribbean dollar (XCD)

Currency code: XCD

Exchange rates: East Caribbean dollars per US dollar - 2.7000 (fixed
rate since 1976)

Fiscal year: calendar year



Saint Kitts and Nevis    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 17,000 (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 205 (1997)

Telephone system: general assessment:  good interisland and
international connections

domestic:  interisland links to Antigua and Barbuda and Saint Martin
(Guadeloupe and Netherlands Antilles) are handled by VHF/UHF/SHF
radiotelephone

international:  international calls are carried by radiotelephone to
Antigua and Barbuda and switched there to submarine cable or to
Intelsat; or carried to Saint Martin (Guadeloupe and Netherlands
Antilles) by radiotelephone and switched to Intelsat

Radio broadcast stations: AM 3, FM 1, shortwave 0 (1998)

Radios: 28,000 (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 1 (plus three repeaters) (1997)

Televisions: 10,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .kn

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 16 (2000)

Internet users: 2,000 (2000)



Saint Kitts and Nevis    Transportation

Railways: total:  58 km

narrow gauge:  58 km 0.762-m gauge on Saint Kitts to serve sugarcane
plantations (1995)

Highways: total:  320 km

paved:  136 km

unpaved:  184 km (2000)

Waterways: none

Ports and harbors: Basseterre, Charlestown

Merchant marine: none (2000 est.)

Airports: 2 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  2

1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

914 to 1,523 m:  1 (2000 est.)



Saint Kitts and Nevis    Military

Military branches: Royal Saint Kitts and Nevis Police Force, Coast
Guard, Royal Saint Kitts and Nevis Defense Force

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $NA

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: NA%



Saint Kitts and Nevis    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

Illicit drugs: transshipment point for South American drugs destined
for the US and Europe

======================================================================

@Saint Lucia




Saint Lucia    Introduction

Background: The island, with its fine natural harbor at Castries,
was contested between England and France throughout the 17th and
early 18th centuries (changing possession 14 times); it was finally
ceded to the UK in 1814. Self-government was granted in 1967 and
independence in 1979.



Saint Lucia    Geography

Location: Caribbean, island between the Caribbean Sea and North
Atlantic Ocean, north of Trinidad and Tobago

Geographic coordinates: 13 53 N, 60 68 W

Map references: Central America and the Caribbean

Area: total:  620 sq km

land:  610 sq km

water:  10 sq km

Area - comparative: 3.5 times the size of Washington, DC

Land boundaries: 0 km

Coastline: 158 km

Maritime claims: contiguous zone:  24 NM

continental shelf:  200 NM or to the edge of the continental margin

exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: tropical, moderated by northeast trade winds; dry season
from January to April, rainy season from May to August

Terrain: volcanic and mountainous with some broad, fertile valleys

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Caribbean Sea 0 m

highest point:  Mount Gimie 950 m

Natural resources: forests, sandy beaches, minerals (pumice),
mineral springs, geothermal potential

Land use: arable land:  8%

permanent crops:  21%

permanent pastures:  5%

forests and woodland:  13%

other:  53% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 10 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: hurricanes and volcanic activity

Environment - current issues: deforestation; soil erosion,
particularly in the northern region

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental
Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping,
Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Whaling

signed, but not ratified:  Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol



Saint Lucia    People

Population: 158,178 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  32.13% (male 25,951; female 24,874)

15-64 years:  62.59% (male 48,568; female 50,430)

65 years and over:  5.28% (male 3,120; female 5,235) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 1.23% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 21.8 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 5.36 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: -4.15 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.07 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  0.96 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.6 male(s)/female

total population:  0.96 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 15.22 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  72.57 years

male:  69 years

female:  76.39 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 2.38 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: NA%

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: NA

HIV/AIDS - deaths: NA

Nationality: noun:  Saint Lucian(s)

adjective:  Saint Lucian

Ethnic groups: black 90%, mixed 6%, East Indian 3%, white 1%

Religions: Roman Catholic 90%, Protestant 7%, Anglican 3%

Languages: English (official), French patois

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over has ever attended school

total population:  67%

male:  65%

female:  69% (1980 est.)



Saint Lucia    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  none

conventional short form:  Saint Lucia

Government type: Westminster-style parliamentary democracy

Capital: Castries

Administrative divisions: 11 quarters; Anse-la-Raye, Castries,
Choiseul, Dauphin, Dennery, Gros Islet, Laborie, Micoud, Praslin,
Soufriere, Vieux Fort

Independence: 22 February 1979 (from UK)

National holiday: Independence Day, 22 February (1979)

Constitution: 22 February 1979

Legal system: based on English common law

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6
February 1952), represented by Governor General Dr. Perlette LOUISY
(since September 1997)

head of government:  Prime Minister Kenneth ANTHONY (since 24 May
1997) and Deputy Prime Minister Mario MICHEL (since 24 May 1997)

cabinet:  Cabinet appointed by the governor general on the advice of
the prime minister

elections:  none; the monarch is hereditary; the governor general is
appointed by the monarch; following legislative elections, the
leader of the majority party or leader of a majority coalition is
usually appointed prime minister by the governor general

Legislative branch: bicameral Parliament consists of the Senate (11
seats; six members appointed on the advice of the prime minister,
three on the advice of the leader of the opposition, and two after
consultation with religious, economic, and social groups) and the
House of Assembly (17 seats; members are elected by popular vote
from single-member constituencies to serve five-year terms)

elections:  House of Assembly - last held 23 May 1997 (next to be
held NA 2002)

election results:  House of Assembly - percent of vote by party -
NA%; seats by party - SLP 16, UWP 1

Judicial branch: Eastern Caribbean Supreme Court (jurisdiction
extends to Anguilla, Antigua and Barbuda, the British Virgin
Islands, Dominica, Grenada, Montserrat, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint
Lucia, and Saint Vincent and the Grenadines)

Political parties and leaders: National Freedom Party or NFP
[Martinus FRANCOIS]; Saint Lucia Labor Party or SLP [Kenneth
ANTHONY]; United Workers Party or UWP [Dr. Morella JOSEPH]

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: ACCT (associate), ACP, C,
Caricom, CDB, ECLAC, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IFAD,
IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Intelsat (nonsignatory user), Interpol,
IOC, ISO (subscriber), ITU, NAM, OAS, OECS, OPANAL, OPCW, UN,
UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTrO

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Sonia Merlyn JOHNNY

chancery:  3216 New Mexico Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20016

telephone:  [1] (202) 364-6792 through 6795

FAX:  [1] (202) 364-6728

consulate(s) general:  Miami and New York

Diplomatic representation from the US: the US does not have an
embassy in Saint Lucia; the US Ambassador in Barbados is accredited
to Saint Lucia

Flag description: blue, with a gold isosceles triangle below a black
arrowhead; the upper edges of the arrowhead have a white border



Saint Lucia    Economy

Economy - overview: The recent changes in the EU import preference
regime and the increased competition from Latin American bananas
have made economic diversification increasingly important in Saint
Lucia. Improvement in the construction sector and growth of the
tourism industry helped expand GDP in 1998-99. The agriculture
sector registered its fifth year of decline in 1997 primarily
because of a severe decline in banana production. The manufacturing
sector is the most diverse in the Eastern Caribbean, and the
government is beginning to develop regulations for the small
offshore financial sector.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $700 million (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 0.5% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $4,500 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  10.7%

industry:  32.3%

services:  57% (1996 est.)

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 2.5% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 43,800

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture 43.4%, services 38.9%,
industry and commerce 17.7% (1983 est.)

Unemployment rate: 15% (1996 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $141.2 million

expenditures:  $146.7 million, including capital expenditures of
$25.1 million (FY97/98 est.)

Industries: clothing, assembly of electronic components, beverages,
corrugated cardboard boxes, tourism, lime processing, coconut
processing

Industrial production growth rate: -8.9% (1997 est.)

Electricity - production: 110 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  100%

hydro:  0%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 102.3 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: bananas, coconuts, vegetables, citrus, root
crops, cocoa

Exports: $68.3 million (2000 est.)

Exports - commodities: bananas 41%, clothing, cocoa, vegetables,
fruits, coconut oil

Exports - partners: UK 50%, US 24%, Caricom countries 16% (1995)

Imports: $319.4 million (2000 est.)

Imports - commodities: food 23%, manufactured goods 21%, machinery
and transportation equipment 19%, chemicals, fuels

Imports - partners: US 36%, Caricom countries 22%, UK 11%, Japan 5%,
Canada 4% (1995)

Debt - external: $131.6 million (1998)

Economic aid - recipient: $51.8 million (1995)

Currency: East Caribbean dollar (XCD)

Currency code: XCD

Exchange rates: East Caribbean dollars per US dollar - 2.7000 (fixed
rate since 1976)

Fiscal year: 1 April - 31 March



Saint Lucia    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 37,000 (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 1,600 (1997)

Telephone system: general assessment:  adequate system

domestic:  system is automatically switched

international:  direct microwave radio relay link with Martinique
and Saint Vincent and the Grenadines; tropospheric scatter to
Barbados; international calls beyond these countries are carried by
Intelsat from Martinique

Radio broadcast stations: AM 2, FM 7 (plus 3 repeaters), shortwave 0
(1998)

Radios: 111,000 (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 3 (of which two are commercial
stations and one is a community antenna television or CATV channel)
(1997)

Televisions: 32,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .lc

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 15 (2000)

Internet users: 5,000 (2000)



Saint Lucia    Transportation

Railways: 0 km

Highways: total:  1,210 km

paved:  63 km

unpaved:  1,147 km (1996)

Waterways: none

Ports and harbors: Castries, Vieux Fort

Merchant marine: none (2000 est.)

Airports: 2 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  2

2,438 to 3,047 m:  1

1,524 to 2,437 m:  1 (2000 est.)



Saint Lucia    Military

Military branches: Royal Saint Lucia Police Force (includes Special
Service Unit), Coast Guard

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $5 million (FY91/92)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 2% (FY91/92)



Saint Lucia    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

Illicit drugs: transit point for South American drugs destined for
the US and Europe

======================================================================

@Saint Pierre and Miquelon





Saint Pierre and Miquelon    Introduction

Background: First settled by the French in the early 17th century,
the islands represent the sole remaining vestige of France's once
vast North American possessions.



Saint Pierre and Miquelon    Geography

Location: Northern North America, islands in the North Atlantic
Ocean, south of Newfoundland (Canada)

Geographic coordinates: 46 50 N, 56 20 W

Map references: North America

Area: total:  242 sq km

land:  242 sq km

water:  0 sq km

note:  includes eight small islands in the Saint Pierre and the
Miquelon groups

Area - comparative: 1.5 times the size of Washington, DC

Land boundaries: 0 km

Coastline: 120 km

Maritime claims: exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: cold and wet, with much mist and fog; spring and autumn are
windy

Terrain: mostly barren rock

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Atlantic Ocean 0 m

highest point:  Morne de la Grande Montagne 240 m

Natural resources: fish, deepwater ports

Land use: arable land:  13%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  0%

forests and woodland:  4%

other:  83% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: NA sq km

Natural hazards: persistent fog throughout the year can be a
maritime hazard

Environment - current issues: NA

Geography - note: vegetation scanty



Saint Pierre and Miquelon    People

Population: 6,928 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  25.85% (male 917; female 874)

15-64 years:  64.22% (male 2,273; female 2,176)

65 years and over:  9.93% (male 291; female 397) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 0.43% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 15.88 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 6.64 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: -4.91 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.06 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.73 male(s)/female

total population:  1.01 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 8.39 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  77.77 years

male:  75.51 years

female:  80.13 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 2.12 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: NA%

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: NA

HIV/AIDS - deaths: NA

Nationality: noun:  Frenchman(men), Frenchwoman(women)

adjective:  French

Ethnic groups: Basques and Bretons (French fishermen)

Religions: Roman Catholic 99%

Languages: French

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  99%

male:  99%

female:  99% (1982 est.)



Saint Pierre and Miquelon    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Territorial Collectivity of
Saint Pierre and Miquelon

conventional short form:  Saint Pierre and Miquelon

local long form:  Departement de Saint-Pierre et Miquelon

local short form:  Saint-Pierre et Miquelon

Dependency status: self-governing territorial collectivity of France

Government type: NA

Capital: Saint-Pierre

Administrative divisions: none (territorial collectivity of France);
note - there are no first-order administrative divisions approved by
the US Government, but there are two communes - Saint Pierre,
Miquelon

Independence: none (territorial collectivity of France; has been
under French control since 1763)

National holiday: Bastille Day, 14 July (1789)

Constitution: 28 September 1958 (French Constitution)

Legal system: French law with special adaptations for local
conditions, such as housing and taxation

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Jacques CHIRAC of
France (since 17 May 1995), represented by Prefect Remi THUAU (since
NA)

head of government:  President of the General Council Bernard LE
SOAVEC (since NA 1996)

cabinet:  NA

elections:  French president elected by popular vote for a
seven-year term; election last held 7 May 1995 (next to be held NA
May 2002); prefect appointed by the French president on the advice
of the French Ministry of Interior; president of the General Council
is elected by the members of the council

Legislative branch: unicameral General Council or Conseil General
(19 seats - 15 from Saint Pierre and 4 from Miquelon; members are
elected by popular vote to serve six-year terms)

elections:  elections last held NA April 2000 (next to be held NA
April 2006)

election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
NA

note:  Saint Pierre and Miquelon elect 1 seat to the French Senate;
elections last held NA September 1995 (next to be held NA September
2004); results - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party - RPR
1; Saint Pierre and Miquelon also elects 1 seat to the French
National Assembly; elections last held 25 May-1 June 1997 (next to
be held NA 2002); results - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by
party - UDF 1

Judicial branch: Superior Tribunal of Appeals or Tribunal Superieur
d'Appel

Political parties and leaders: Rassemblement pour la Republique or
RPR [leader NA]; Socialist Party or PS [leader NA]; Union pour la
Democratie Francaise or UDF [leader NA]

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: FZ, WFTU

Diplomatic representation in the US: none (territorial collectivity
of France)

Diplomatic representation from the US: none (territorial
collectivity of France)

Flag description: a yellow sailing ship facing the hoist side rides
on a dark blue background with a black wave line under the ship; on
the hoist side, a vertical band is divided into three parts: the top
part is red with a green diagonal cross extending to the corners
overlaid by a white cross dividing the square into four sections;
the middle part has a white background with an ermine pattern; the
third part has a red background with two stylized yellow lions
outlined in black, one on top of the other; the flag of France is
used for official occasions



Saint Pierre and Miquelon    Economy

Economy - overview: The inhabitants have traditionally earned their
livelihood by fishing and by servicing fishing fleets operating off
the coast of Newfoundland. The economy has been declining, however,
because of disputes with Canada over fishing quotas and a steady
decline in the number of ships stopping at Saint Pierre. In 1992, an
arbitration panel awarded the islands an exclusive economic zone of
12,348 sq km to settle a longstanding territorial dispute with
Canada, although it represents only 25% of what France had sought.
The islands are heavily subsidized by France to the great betterment
of living standards. The government hopes an expansion of tourism
will boost economic prospects.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $74 million (1996 est.); supplemented
by annual payments from France of about $60 million

GDP - real growth rate: NA%

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $11,000 (1996 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  NA%

industry:  NA%

services:  NA%

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 2.1% (1991-96 average)

Labor force: 3,000 (1997)

Labor force - by occupation: fishing 18%, industry (mainly
fish-processing) 41%, services 41% (1996 est.)

Unemployment rate: 9.8% (1997)

Budget: revenues:  $70 million

expenditures:  $60 million, including capital expenditures of $24
million (1996 est.)

Industries: fish processing and supply base for fishing fleets;
tourism

Industrial production growth rate: NA%

Electricity - production: 40 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  100%

hydro:  0%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 37.2 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: vegetables; poultry, cattle, sheep, pigs;
fish

Exports: $12 million (f.o.b., 1999)

Exports - commodities: fish and fish products, soybeans, animal
feed, mollusks and crustaceans, fox and mink pelts

Exports - partners: US 43%, Egypt 14%, Japan 11%, Colombia 8% (1999)

Imports: $55 million (f.o.b., 1999)

Imports - commodities: meat, clothing, fuel, electrical equipment,
machinery, building materials

Imports - partners: France 44%, Canada 40% (1999)

Debt - external: $NA

Economic aid - recipient: approximately $65 million in annual grants
from France

Currency: French franc (FRF); euro (EUR)

Currency code: FRF; EUR

Exchange rates: euros per US dollar - 1.06594 (January 2001),
1.08540 (2000), 0.93863 (1999); French francs per US dollar - 5.8995
(1998), 5.8367 (1997), 5.1155 (1996)

Fiscal year: calendar year



Saint Pierre and Miquelon    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 4,000 (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 0 (1994)

Telephone system: general assessment:  adequate

domestic:  NA

international:  radiotelephone communication with most countries in
the world; 1 earth station in French domestic satellite system

Radio broadcast stations: AM 1, FM 4, shortwave 0 (1998)

Radios: 4,000 (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 0 (there are, however, two repeaters
which rebroadcast programs from France, Canada, and the US) (1997)

Televisions: 4,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .pm

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 1 (2000)

Internet users: NA



Saint Pierre and Miquelon    Transportation

Railways: 0 km

Highways: total:  114 km

paved:  69 km

unpaved:  45 km (1994 est.)

Waterways: none

Ports and harbors: Saint Pierre

Merchant marine: none (2000 est.)

Airports: 2 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  2

1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

914 to 1,523 m:  1 (2000 est.)



Saint Pierre and Miquelon    Military

Military - note: defense is the responsibility of France



Saint Pierre and Miquelon    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

======================================================================

@Saint Vincent and the Grenadines




Saint Vincent and the Grenadines    Introduction

Background: Disputed between France and Great Britain in the 18th
century, Saint Vincent was ceded to the latter in 1783. Autonomy was
granted in 1969, and independence in 1979.



Saint Vincent and the Grenadines    Geography

Location: Caribbean, islands in the Caribbean Sea, north of Trinidad
and Tobago

Geographic coordinates: 13 15 N, 61 12 W

Map references: Central America and the Caribbean

Area: total:  389 sq km (Saint Vincent 344 sq km)

land:  389 sq km

water:  0 sq km

Area - comparative: twice the size of Washington, DC

Land boundaries: 0 km

Coastline: 84 km

Maritime claims: contiguous zone:  24 NM

continental shelf:  200 NM

exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: tropical; little seasonal temperature variation; rainy
season (May to November)

Terrain: volcanic, mountainous

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Caribbean Sea 0 m

highest point:  Soufriere 1,234 m

Natural resources: hydropower, cropland

Land use: arable land:  10%

permanent crops:  18%

permanent pastures:  5%

forests and woodland:  36%

other:  31% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 10 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: hurricanes; Soufriere volcano on the island of
Saint Vincent is a constant threat

Environment - current issues: pollution of coastal waters and
shorelines from discharges by pleasure yachts and other effluents;
in some areas, pollution is severe enough to make swimming
prohibitive

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental
Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer
Protection, Ship Pollution, Whaling

signed, but not ratified:  Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol

Geography - note: the administration of the islands of the
Grenadines group is divided between Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
and Grenada



Saint Vincent and the Grenadines    People

Population: 115,942 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  29.61% (male 17,466; female 16,865)

15-64 years:  64.04% (male 38,074; female 36,179)

65 years and over:  6.35% (male 3,162; female 4,196) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 0.4% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 17.91 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 6.16 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: -7.72 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.03 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.75 male(s)/female

total population:  1.03 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 16.61 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  72.56 years

male:  70.83 years

female:  74.34 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 2.06 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: NA%

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: NA

HIV/AIDS - deaths: NA

Nationality: noun:  Saint Vincentian(s) or Vincentian(s)

adjective:  Saint Vincentian or Vincentian

Ethnic groups: black 66%, mixed 19%, East Indian 6%, Carib
Amerindian 2%

Religions: Anglican 47%, Methodist 28%, Roman Catholic 13%,
Seventh-Day Adventist, Hindu, other Protestant

Languages: English, French patois

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over has ever attended school

total population:  96%

male:  96%

female:  96% (1970 est.)



Saint Vincent and the Grenadines    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  none

conventional short form:  Saint Vincent and the Grenadines

Government type: parliamentary democracy; independent sovereign
state within the Commonwealth

Capital: Kingstown

Administrative divisions: 6 parishes; Charlotte, Grenadines, Saint
Andrew, Saint David, Saint George, Saint Patrick

Independence: 27 October 1979 (from UK)

National holiday: Independence Day, 27 October (1979)

Constitution: 27 October 1979

Legal system: based on English common law

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6
February 1952), represented by Governor General David JACK (since 29
September 1989)

head of government:  Prime Minister Ralph GONSALVES (since 29 March
2001)

cabinet:  Cabinet appointed by the governor general on the advice of
the prime minister

elections:  none; the monarch is hereditary; the governor general is
appointed by the monarch; following legislative elections, the
leader of the majority party is usually appointed prime minister by
the governor general; deputy prime minister appointed by the
governor general on the advice of the prime minister

Legislative branch: unicameral House of Assembly (21 seats, 15
elected representatives and 6 appointed senators; representatives
are elected by popular vote from single-member constituencies to
serve five-year terms)

elections:  last held 28 March 2001 (next to be held by NA March
2006)

election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
ULP 12, NDP 3

Judicial branch: Eastern Caribbean Supreme Court (based on Saint
Lucia; one judge of the Supreme Court resides in Saint Vincent and
the Grenadines)

Political parties and leaders: National Reform Party or NRP [Joel
MIGUEL]; New Democratic Party or NDP [Arnhim EUSTACE]; People's
Progressive Movement or PPM [Ken BOYEA]; Progressive Labor Party or
PLP [leader NA]; United People's Movement or UPM [Adrian SAUNDERS];
Unity Labor Party or ULP [Ralph GONSALVES] (formed by the coalition
of Saint Vincent Labor Party or SVLP and the Movement for National
Unity or MNU)

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: ACP, C, Caricom, CDB,
ECLAC, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFRCS, ILO,
IMF, IMO, Intelsat (nonsignatory user), Interpol, IOC, ITU, OAS,
OECS, OPANAL, OPCW, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WFTU, WHO,
WIPO, WTrO

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Ellsworth JOHN

chancery:  3216 New Mexico Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20016

telephone:  [1] (202) 364-6730

FAX:  [1] (202) 364-6736

Diplomatic representation from the US: the US does not have an
embassy in Saint Vincent and the Grenadines; the US Ambassador in
Barbados is accredited to Saint Vincent and the Grenadines

Flag description: three vertical bands of blue (hoist side), gold
(double width), and green; the gold band bears three green diamonds
arranged in a V pattern



Saint Vincent and the Grenadines    Economy

Economy - overview: Agriculture, dominated by banana production, is
the most important sector of this lower-middle-income economy. The
services sector, based mostly on a growing tourist industry, is also
important. The government has been relatively unsuccessful at
introducing new industries, and a high unemployment rate persists.
The continuing dependence on a single crop represents the biggest
obstacle to the islands' development; tropical storms wiped out
substantial portions of crops in both 1994 and 1995. The tourism
sector has considerable potential for development over the next
decade. Recent growth has been stimulated by strong activity in the
construction sector and an improvement in tourism. There is a small
manufacturing sector and a small offshore financial sector whose
particularly restrictive secrecy laws have caused some international
concern.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $322 million (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 2% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $2,800 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  10.6%

industry:  17.5%

services:  71.9% (1996 est.)

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 2% (1999 est.)

Labor force: 67,000 (1984 est.)

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture 26%, industry 17%, services
57% (1980 est.)

Unemployment rate: 22% (1997 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $85.7 million

expenditures:  $98.6 million, including capital expenditures of
$25.7 million (1997 est.)

Industries: food processing, cement, furniture, clothing, starch

Industrial production growth rate: -0.9% (1997 est.)

Electricity - production: 82 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  73.17%

hydro:  26.83%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 76.3 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: bananas, coconuts, sweet potatoes, spices;
small numbers of cattle, sheep, pigs, goats; fish

Exports: $53.7 million (2000 est.)

Exports - commodities: bananas 39%, eddoes and dasheen (taro),
arrowroot starch, tennis racquets

Exports - partners: Caricom countries 49%, UK 16%, US 10% (1995)

Imports: $185.6 million (2000 est.)

Imports - commodities: foodstuffs, machinery and equipment,
chemicals and fertilizers, minerals and fuels

Imports - partners: US 36%, Caricom countries 28%, UK 13% (1995)

Debt - external: $99.3 million (1998)

Economic aid - recipient: $47.5 million (1995); note - EU $34.5
million (1998)

Currency: East Caribbean dollar (XCD)

Currency code: XCD

Exchange rates: East Caribbean dollars per US dollar - 2.7000 (fixed
rate since 1976)

Fiscal year: calendar year



Saint Vincent and the Grenadines    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 20,500 (1998)

Telephones - mobile cellular: NA

Telephone system: general assessment:  adequate system

domestic:  islandwide, fully automatic telephone system; VHF/UHF
radiotelephone from Saint Vincent to the other islands of the
Grenadines

international:  VHF/UHF radiotelephone from Saint Vincent to
Barbados; new SHF radiotelephone to Grenada and to Saint Lucia;
access to Intelsat earth station in Martinique through Saint Lucia

Radio broadcast stations: AM 1, FM 3, shortwave 0 (1998)

Radios: 77,000 (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 1 (plus three repeaters) (1997)

Televisions: 18,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .vc

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 15 (2000)

Internet users: 2,000 (2000)



Saint Vincent and the Grenadines    Transportation

Railways: 0 km

Highways: total:  1,040 km

paved:  320 km

unpaved:  720 km (1996)

Waterways: none

Ports and harbors: Kingstown

Merchant marine: total:  800 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
6,705,336 GRT/10,134,002 DWT

ships by type:  barge carrier 1, bulk 131, cargo 395, chemical
tanker 29, combination bulk 12, combination ore/oil 1, container 46,
liquefied gas 7, livestock carrier 3, multi-functional large-load
carrier 4, passenger 2, petroleum tanker 56, refrigerated cargo 42,
roll on/roll off 49, short-sea passenger 11, specialized tanker 10,
vehicle carrier 1

note:  includes some foreign-owned ships registered here as a flag
of convenience: China 4, Ireland 1, France 1, Greece 3, Hong Kong 1,
Croatia 10, India 1, Japan 2, Monaco 1, Netherlands 1, Norway 2,
Netherlands Antilles 1, Pakistan 1, Russia 1, Slovenia 5, UAE 1
(2000 est.)

Airports: 6 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  5

914 to 1,523 m:  3

under 914 m:  2 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  1

under 914 m:  1 (2000 est.)



Saint Vincent and the Grenadines    Military

Military branches: Royal Saint Vincent and the Grenadines Police
Force (includes Special Service Unit), Coast Guard

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $NA

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: NA%



Saint Vincent and the Grenadines    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

Illicit drugs: transshipment point for South American drugs destined
for the US and Europe

======================================================================

@Samoa




Samoa    Introduction

Background: New Zealand occupied the German protectorate of Western
Samoa at the outbreak of World War I in 1914. It continued to
administer the islands as a mandate and then as a trust territory
until 1962, when the islands became the first Polynesian nation to
reestablish independence in the 20th century. The country dropped
the "Western" from its name in 1997.



Samoa    Geography

Location: Oceania, group of islands in the South Pacific Ocean,
about one-half of the way from Hawaii to New Zealand

Geographic coordinates: 13 35 S, 172 20 W

Map references: Oceania

Area: total:  2,860 sq km

land:  2,850 sq km

water:  10 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly smaller than Rhode Island

Land boundaries: 0 km

Coastline: 403 km

Maritime claims: exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: tropical; rainy season (October to March), dry season (May
to October)

Terrain: narrow coastal plain with volcanic, rocky, rugged mountains
in interior

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Pacific Ocean 0 m

highest point:  Mauga Silisili 1,857 m

Natural resources: hardwood forests, fish, hydropower

Land use: arable land:  19%

permanent crops:  24%

permanent pastures:  0%

forests and woodland:  47%

other:  10%

Irrigated land: NA sq km

Natural hazards: occasional typhoons; active volcanism

Environment - current issues: soil erosion

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Law
of the Sea, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection

signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements



Samoa    People

Population: 179,058 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  31.88% (male 29,009; female 28,069)

15-64 years:  62.44% (male 70,491; female 41,304)

65 years and over:  5.68% (male 4,739; female 5,446) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: -0.23% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 15.59 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 6.29 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: -11.62 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.03 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1.71 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.87 male(s)/female

total population:  1.39 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 31.75 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  69.5 years

male:  66.77 years

female:  72.37 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 3.4 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: NA%

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: NA

HIV/AIDS - deaths: NA

Nationality: noun:  Samoan(s)

adjective:  Samoan

Ethnic groups: Samoan 92.6%, Euronesians 7% (persons of European and
Polynesian blood), Europeans 0.4%

Religions: Christian 99.7% (about one-half of population associated
with the London Missionary Society; includes Congregational, Roman
Catholic, Methodist, Latter-Day Saints, Seventh-Day Adventist)

Languages: Samoan (Polynesian), English

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  97%

male:  97%

female:  97% (1971 est.)



Samoa    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Independent State of Samoa

conventional short form:  Samoa

former:  Western Samoa

Government type: constitutional monarchy under native chief

Capital: Apia

Administrative divisions: 11 districts; A'ana, Aiga-i-le-Tai, Atua,
Fa'asaleleaga, Gaga'emauga, Gagaifomauga, Palauli, Satupa'itea,
Tuamasaga, Va'a-o-Fonoti, Vaisigano

Independence: 1 January 1962 (from New Zealand-administered UN
trusteeship)

National holiday: Independence Day Celebration, 1 June (1962); note
- 1 January 1962 is the date of independence from the New
Zealand-administered UN trusteeship, 1 June 1962 is the date that
independence is celebrated

Constitution: 1 January 1962

Legal system: based on English common law and local customs;
judicial review of legislative acts with respect to fundamental
rights of the citizen; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Suffrage: 21 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  Chief Susuga MALIETOA Tanumafili
II (cochief of state from 1 January 1962 until becoming sole chief
of state 5 April 1963)

head of government:  Prime Minister TUILA'EPA Sailele Malielegaoi
(since 24 November 1998); note - TUILA'EPA served as deputy prime
minister since 1992; he assumed the prime ministership in November
1998 when former Prime Minister TOFILAU Eti Alesana resigned in poor
health; the post of deputy prime minister is currently vacant

cabinet:  Cabinet consists of 12 members, appointed by the chief of
state with the prime minister's advice

elections:  upon the death of Chief Susuga MALIETOA Tanumafili II, a
new chief of state will be elected by the Legislative Assembly to
serve a five-year term; prime minister appointed by the chief of
state with the approval of the Legislative Assembly

Legislative branch: unicameral Legislative Assembly or Fono (49
seats - 47 elected by Samoans, 2 elected by non-Samoans; only chiefs
(matai) may stand for election to the Fono; members serve five-year
terms)

elections:  last held 4 March 2001 (next to be held by March 2006)

election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
HRPP 23, SNDP 13, independents 13

Judicial branch: Supreme Court; Court of Appeal

Political parties and leaders: Human Rights Protection Party or HRPP
[TUILA'EPA Sailele Malielegaoi, chairman]; Samoa All People's Party
or SAPP [Matatumua NAIMOAGA]; Samoan National Development Party or
SNDP [TAPUA Tamasese Efi, chairman] (opposition); Samoa National
Party [FETU Tiatia, party secretary]; Samoan Progressive
Conservative Party [LEOTA Ituau Ale]

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: ACP, AsDB, C, ESCAP, FAO,
G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IMF, IMO,
Intelsat (nonsignatory user), IOC, ITU, OPCW, Sparteca, SPC, SPF,
UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UPU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTrO (observer)

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Tuiloma Neroni SLADE

chancery:  800 Second Avenue, Suite 400D, New York, NY 10017

telephone:  [1] (212) 599-6196, 6197

FAX:  [1] (212) 599-0797

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Carol MOSELEY BRAUN (Ambassador to New Zealand and Samoa, resides in
Wellington, New Zealand)

embassy:  5th floor, Beach Road, Apia

mailing address:  P. O. Box 3430, Apia

telephone:  [685] 21631

FAX:  [685] 22030

Flag description: red with a blue rectangle in the upper hoist-side
quadrant bearing five white five-pointed stars representing the
Southern Cross constellation



Samoa    Economy

Economy - overview: The economy of Samoa has traditionally been
dependent on development aid, family remittances from overseas, and
agricultural exports. The country is vulnerable to devastating
storms. Agriculture employs two-thirds of the labor force, and
furnishes 90% of exports, featuring coconut cream, coconut oil, and
copra. The manufacturing sector mainly processes agricultural
products. Tourism is an expanding sector, accounting for 15% of GDP;
about 85,000 tourists visited the islands in 2000. The Samoan
Government has called for deregulation of the financial sector,
encouragement of investment, and continued fiscal discipline.
Observers point to the flexibility of the labor market as a basic
strength for future economic advances. Foreign reserves are in a
relatively healthy state, the external debt is stable, and inflation
is low.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $571 million (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 6.8% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $3,200 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  15%

industry:  24%

services:  61% (2000 est.)

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 0.8% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 90,000 (2000 est.)

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture 65%, services 30%, industry
5% (1995 est.)

Unemployment rate: NA%; note - substantial underemployment

Budget: revenues:  $74.8 million

expenditures:  $81.4 million, including capital expenditures of $NA
(1999 est.)

Industries: food processing, building materials, auto parts

Industrial production growth rate: 10% (2000 est.)

Electricity - production: 100 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  60%

hydro:  40%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 93 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: coconuts, bananas, taro, yams

Exports: $17 million (f.o.b., 2000)

Exports - commodities: coconut oil and cream, copra, fish, beer

Exports - partners: American Samoa 59%, US 18%, Germany 9%, New
Zealand 8% (2000 est.)

Imports: $90 million (f.o.b., 2000)

Imports - commodities: machinery and equipment, industrial supplies,
foodstuffs

Imports - partners: New Zealand 37%, Australia 24%, Fiji 14%, US 14%
(2000 est.)

Debt - external: $180 million (1998 est.)

Economic aid - recipient: $42.9 million (1995)

Currency: tala (WST)

Currency code: WST

Exchange rates: tala per US dollar - 3.3400 (January 2001), 3.2712
(2000), 3.0120 (1999), 2.9429 (1998), 2.5562 (1997), 2.4618 (1996)

Fiscal year: calendar year



Samoa    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 8,000 (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 1,545 (February 1998)

Telephone system: general assessment:  adequate

domestic:  NA

international:  satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (Pacific Ocean)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 1, FM 3, shortwave 0 (1998)

Radios: 178,000 (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 6 (1997)

Televisions: 11,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .ws

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 2 (2000)

Internet users: 500 (2000)



Samoa    Transportation

Railways: 0 km

Highways: total:  835 km

paved:  267 km

unpaved:  569 km (1983)

Waterways: none

Ports and harbors: Apia, Asau, Mulifanua, Salelologa

Airports: 3 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  1

2,438 to 3,047 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  2

under 914 m:  2 (2000 est.)



Samoa    Military

Military branches: no regular armed services; Samoa Police Force

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $NA

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: NA%

Military - note: Samoa has no formal defense structure or regular
armed forces; informal defense ties exist with NZ, which is required
to consider any Samoan request for assistance under the 1962 Treaty
of Friendship



Samoa    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

======================================================================

@San Marino




San Marino    Introduction

Background: The third smallest state in Europe (after The Holy See
and Monaco) also claims to be the world's oldest republic. According
to tradition, it was founded by a Christian stonemason named Marinus
in 301 A.D. San Marino's foreign policy is aligned with that of
Italy. Social and political trends in the republic also track
closely with those of its larger neighbor.



San Marino    Geography

Location: Southern Europe, an enclave in central Italy

Geographic coordinates: 43 46 N, 12 25 E

Map references: Europe

Area: total:  61.2 sq km

land:  61.2 sq km

water:  0 sq km

Area - comparative: about 0.3 times the size of Washington, DC

Land boundaries: total:  39 km

border countries:  Italy 39 km

Coastline: 0 km (landlocked)

Maritime claims: none (landlocked)

Climate: Mediterranean; mild to cool winters; warm, sunny summers

Terrain: rugged mountains

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Torrente Ausa 55 m

highest point:  Monte Titano 755 m

Natural resources: building stone

Land use: arable land:  17%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  0%

forests and woodland:  0%

other:  83% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: NA sq km

Natural hazards: NA

Environment - current issues: NA

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Desertification, Nuclear Test Ban

signed, but not ratified:  Air Pollution

Geography - note: landlocked; smallest independent state in Europe
after the Holy See and Monaco; dominated by the Apennines



San Marino    People

Population: 27,336 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  15.88% (male 2,241; female 2,100)

15-64 years:  67.94% (male 9,048; female 9,525)

65 years and over:  16.18% (male 1,902; female 2,520) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 1.45% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 10.76 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 7.68 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 11.45 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.09 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.07 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  0.95 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.75 male(s)/female

total population:  0.93 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 6.21 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  81.23 years

male:  77.68 years

female:  85.1 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 1.3 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: NA%

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: NA

HIV/AIDS - deaths: NA

Nationality: noun:  Sammarinese (singular and plural)

adjective:  Sammarinese

Ethnic groups: Sammarinese, Italian

Religions: Roman Catholic

Languages: Italian

Literacy: definition:  age 10 and over can read and write

total population:  96%

male:  97%

female:  95% (1976 est.)



San Marino    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Republic of San Marino

conventional short form:  San Marino

local long form:  Repubblica di San Marino

local short form:  San Marino

Government type: independent republic

Capital: San Marino

Administrative divisions: 9 municipalities (castelli, singular -
castello); Acquaviva, Borgo Maggiore, Chiesanuova, Domagnano,
Faetano, Fiorentino, Monte Giardino, San Marino, Serravalle

Independence: 3 September 301

National holiday: Founding of the Republic, 3 September (301)

Constitution: 8 October 1600; electoral law of 1926 serves some of
the functions of a constitution

Legal system: based on civil law system with Italian law influences;
has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  cochiefs of state Captain Regent
Luigi LONFERNINI and Captain Regent Fabio BERARDI (for the period 1
April 2001-30 September 2001)

head of government:  Secretary of State for Foreign and Political
Affairs Gabriele GATTI (since NA July 1986)

cabinet:  Congress of State elected by the Great and General Council
for a five-year term

elections:  cochiefs of state (captain regents) elected by the Great
and General Council for a six-month term; election last held NA
March 2001 (next to be held NA September 2001); secretary of state
for foreign and political affairs elected by the Great and General
Council for a five-year term; election last held NA June 1998 (next
to be held NA June 2003)

election results:  Luigi LONFERNINI and Fabio BERARDI elected
captain regents; percent of legislative vote - NA; Gabriele GATTI
reelected secretary of state for foreign and political affairs;
percent of legislative vote - NA

note:  the popularly elected parliament (Grand and General Council)
selects two of its members to serve as the Captains Regent (cochiefs
of state) for a six-month period; they preside over meetings of the
Grand and General Council and its cabinet (Congress of State) which
has ten other members, all selected by the Grand and General
Council; assisting the captains regent are three secretaries of
state - Foreign Affairs, Internal Affairs, and Finance - and several
additional secretaries; the secretary of state for Foreign Affairs
has assumed many of the prerogatives of a prime minister

Legislative branch: unicameral Grand and General Council or
Consiglio Grande e Generale (60 seats; members are elected by direct
popular vote to serve five-year terms)

elections:  last held 31 May 1998 (next likely to be held by NA June
2001)

election results:  percent of vote by party - PDCS 40.8%, PSS 23.3%,
PPDS 18.6%, APDS 9.8%, RC 3.3%, SR 4.2%; seats by party - PDCS 25,
PSS 14, PPDS 11, APDS 6, RC 2, SR 2

Judicial branch: Council of Twelve or Consiglio dei XII

Political parties and leaders: Communist Refoundation or RC [Ivan
FOSHI]; Ideas in Movement or IM [Alessandro ROSSI]; San Marino
Christian Democratic Party or PDCS [Pier Marino MENICUCCI]; San
Marino Popular Alliance of Democrats or APDS [Mario VENTURINI]; San
Marino Progressive Democratic Party or PPDS [Claudio FELICI]; San
Marino Socialist Party or PSS [Augusto CASALI]; Socialists for
Reform or SR [Renzo GIARDI]

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: CE, ECE, FAO, IBRD, ICAO,
ICFTU, ICRM, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IOC, IOM (observer), ITU, OPCW, OSCE,
UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UPU, WHO, WIPO, WToO

Diplomatic representation in the US: San Marino does not have an
embassy in the US

honorary consulate(s) general:  Washington, DC, and New York

honorary consulate(s):  Detroit

Diplomatic representation from the US: the US does not have an
embassy in San Marino; the US Consul General in Florence (Italy) is
accredited to San Marino

Flag description: two equal horizontal bands of white (top) and
light blue with the national coat of arms superimposed in the
center; the coat of arms has a shield (featuring three towers on
three peaks) flanked by a wreath, below a crown and above a scroll
bearing the word LIBERTAS (Liberty)



San Marino    Economy

Economy - overview: The tourist sector contributes over 50% of GDP.
In 1999 more than 3 million tourists visited San Marino. The key
industries are banking, wearing apparel, electronics, and ceramics.
Main agricultural products are wine and cheeses. The per capita
level of output and standard of living are comparable to those of
the most prosperous regions of Italy, which supplies much of its
food.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $860 million (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 8% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $32,000 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  NA%

industry:  NA%

services:  NA%

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 2.2% (2000)

Labor force: 18,500 (1999)

Labor force - by occupation: services 60%, industry 38%, agriculture
2% (1998 est.)

Unemployment rate: 3% (1999)

Budget: revenues:  $400 million

expenditures:  $400 million, including capital expenditures of $NA
(2000 est.)

Industries: tourism, banking, textiles, electronics, ceramics,
cement, wine

Industrial production growth rate: 6% (1997 est.)

Electricity - production: NA kWh

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  NA%

hydro:  NA%

nuclear:  NA%

other:  NA%

Electricity - consumption: NA kWh

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh

note:  electric power supplied by Italy (1999)

Electricity - imports: NA kWh

note:  electricity supplied by Italy

Agriculture - products: wheat, grapes, corn, olives; cattle, pigs,
horses, beef, cheese, hides

Exports: trade data are included with the statistics for Italy

Exports - commodities: building stone, lime, wood, chestnuts, wheat,
wine, baked goods, hides, ceramics

Imports: trade data are included with the statistics for Italy

Imports - commodities: wide variety of consumer manufactures, food

Debt - external: $NA

Economic aid - recipient: $NA

Currency: Italian lira (ITL); euro (EUR)

Currency code: ITL; EUR

Exchange rates: euros per US dollar - 1.06594 (January 2001),
1.08540 (2000), 0.93863 (1999); Italian lire per US dollar - 1,736.2
(1998), 1,703.1 (1997), 1,542.9 (1996)

Fiscal year: calendar year



San Marino    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 18,000 (1998)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 3,010 (1998)

Telephone system: general assessment:  adequate connections

domestic:  automatic telephone system completely integrated into
Italian system

international:  connected to Italian international network

Radio broadcast stations: AM 0, FM 3, shortwave 0 (1998)

Radios: 16,000 (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 1 (San Marino residents also receive
broadcasts from Italy) (1997)

Televisions: 9,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .sm

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 2 (2000)

Internet users: NA



San Marino    Transportation

Railways: 0 km; note - there is a 1.5 km cable railway connecting
the city of San Marino to Borgo Maggiore

Highways: total:  220 km

paved:  220 km

unpaved:  0 km (2001)

Waterways: none

Ports and harbors: none

Airports: none



San Marino    Military

Military branches: Voluntary Military Force, Police Force

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $700,000 (FY00)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: NA%



San Marino    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

======================================================================

@Sao Tome and Principe




Sao Tome and Principe    Introduction

Background: Discovered and claimed by Portugal in the late 15th
century, the islands' sugar-based economy gave way to coffee and
cocoa in the 19th century - all grown with plantation slave labor, a
form of which lingered into the 20th century. Although independence
was achieved in 1975, democratic reforms were not instituted until
the late 1980s. The first free elections were held in 1991.



Sao Tome and Principe    Geography

Location: Western Africa, islands in the Gulf of Guinea, straddling
the Equator, west of Gabon

Geographic coordinates: 1 00 N, 7 00 E

Map references: Africa

Area: total:  1,001 sq km

land:  1,001 sq km

water:  0 sq km

Area - comparative: more than five times the size of Washington, DC

Land boundaries: 0 km

Coastline: 209 km

Maritime claims: measured from claimed archipelagic baselines

exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: tropical; hot, humid; one rainy season (October to May)

Terrain: volcanic, mountainous

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Atlantic Ocean 0 m

highest point:  Pico de Sao Tome 2,024 m

Natural resources: fish, hydropower

Land use: arable land:  2%

permanent crops:  36%

permanent pastures:  1%

forests and woodland:  0%

other:  61% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 100 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: NA

Environment - current issues: deforestation; soil erosion and
exhaustion

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Desertification, Environmental Modification, Law of
the Sea, Ship Pollution

signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements



Sao Tome and Principe    People

Population: 165,034 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  47.7% (male 39,857; female 38,859)

15-64 years:  48.28% (male 38,430; female 41,246)

65 years and over:  4.02% (male 3,034; female 3,608) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 3.18% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 42.74 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 7.54 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: -3.38 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.03 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.03 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  0.93 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.84 male(s)/female

total population:  0.97 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 48.96 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  65.59 years

male:  64.15 years

female:  67.07 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 6.02 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: NA%

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: NA

HIV/AIDS - deaths: NA

Nationality: noun:  Sao Tomean(s)

adjective:  Sao Tomean

Ethnic groups: mestico, angolares (descendants of Angolan slaves),
forros (descendants of freed slaves), servicais (contract laborers
from Angola, Mozambique, and Cape Verde), tongas (children of
servicais born on the islands), Europeans (primarily Portuguese)

Religions: Christian 80% (Roman Catholic, Evangelical Protestant,
Seventh-Day Adventist)

Languages: Portuguese (official)

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  73%

male:  85%

female:  62% (1991 est.)



Sao Tome and Principe    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Democratic Republic of Sao
Tome and Principe

conventional short form:  Sao Tome and Principe

local long form:  Republica Democratica de Sao Tome e Principe

local short form:  Sao Tome e Principe

Government type: republic

Capital: Sao Tome

Administrative divisions: 2 provinces; Principe, Sao Tome

note:  Principe has had self-government since 29 April 1995

Independence: 12 July 1975 (from Portugal)

National holiday: Independence Day, 12 July (1975)

Constitution: approved March 1990; effective 10 September 1990

Legal system: based on Portuguese legal system and customary law;
has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Miguel TROVOADA (since
4 April 1991)

head of government:  Prime Minister Guilherma Posser da COSTA (since
30 December 1998)

cabinet:  Council of Ministers appointed by the president on the
proposal of the prime minister

elections:  president elected by popular vote for a five-year term;
election last held 30 June and 21 July 1996 (next to be held NA July
2001); prime minister chosen by the National Assembly and approved
by the president

election results:  Miguel TROVOADA reelected president in Sao Tome's
second multiparty presidential election; percent of vote - Miguel
TROVOADA 52.74%, Manuel Pinto da COSTA 47.26%

Legislative branch: unicameral National Assembly or Assembleia
Nacional (55 seats; members are elected by direct popular vote to
serve five-year terms)

elections:  last held 8 November 1998 (next to be held NA November
2003)

election results:  percent of vote by party - MLSTP-PSD 56%, PCD
14.5%, ADI 29%; seats by party - MLSTP-PSD 31, ADI 16, PCD 8

Judicial branch: Supreme Court (judges are appointed by the National
Assembly)

Political parties and leaders: Independent Democratic Action or ADI
[Carlos NEVES]; Movement for the Liberation of Sao Tome and
Principe-Social Democratic Party or MLSTP-PSD [Manuel Pinto Da
COSTA]; Party for Democratic Convergence or PCD [Aldo BANDEIRA];
Democratic Renovation Party [Armindo GRACA]; other small parties

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: ACCT, ACP, AfDB, CEEAC,
ECA, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO,
Intelsat (nonsignatory user), Interpol, IOC, IOM (observer), ITU,
NAM, OAU, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO,
WTrO (observer)

Diplomatic representation in the US: Sao Tome and Principe does not
have an embassy in the US, but does have a Permanent Mission to the
UN, headed by First Secretary Domingos Augusto FERREIRA, located at
122 East 42nd Street, Suite 1604, New York, NY 10168, telephone [1]
(212) 317-0533

Diplomatic representation from the US: the US does not have an
embassy in Sao Tome and Principe; the Ambassador to Gabon is
accredited to Sao Tome and Principe on a nonresident basis and makes
periodic visits to the islands

Flag description: three horizontal bands of green (top), yellow
(double width), and green with two black five-pointed stars placed
side by side in the center of the yellow band and a red isosceles
triangle based on the hoist side; uses the popular pan-African
colors of Ethiopia



Sao Tome and Principe    Economy

Economy - overview: This small poor island economy has become
increasingly dependent on cocoa since independence 25 years ago.
However, cocoa production has substantially declined because of
drought and mismanagement. The resulting shortage of cocoa for
export has created a persistent balance-of-payments problem. Sao
Tome has to import all fuels, most manufactured goods, consumer
goods, and a significant amount of food. Over the years, it has been
unable to service its external debt and has had to depend on
concessional aid and debt rescheduling. Sao Tome benefited from $200
million in debt relief in December 2000 under the Highly Indebted
Poor Countries (HIPC) program. Considerable potential exists for
development of a tourist industry, and the government has taken
steps to expand facilities in recent years. The government also has
attempted to reduce price controls and subsidies, but economic
growth has remained sluggish. Sao Tome is also optimistic that
significant petroleum discoveries are forthcoming in its territorial
waters in the oil-rich waters of the Gulf of Guinea. Corruption
scandals continue to weaken the economy. At the same time, progress
in the economic reform program has attracted international financial
institutions' support, and GDP growth will likely rise to at least
4% in 2001-02.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $178 million (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 3% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $1,100 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  23%

industry:  19%

services:  58% (1997 est.)

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 5% (2000 est.)

Labor force: NA

Labor force - by occupation: population mainly engaged in
subsistence agriculture and fishing

note:  shortages of skilled workers

Unemployment rate: NA%

Budget: revenues:  $58 million

expenditures:  $114 million, including capital expenditures of $54
million (1993 est.)

Industries: light construction, textiles, soap, beer; fish
processing; timber

Industrial production growth rate: NA%

Electricity - production: 17 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  41.18%

hydro:  58.82%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 15.8 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: cocoa, coconuts, palm kernels, copra,
cinnamon, pepper, coffee, bananas, papayas, beans; poultry; fish

Exports: $3.2 million (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Exports - commodities: cocoa 90%, copra, coffee, palm oil

Exports - partners: Netherlands 18%, Germany 9%, Portugal 9% (1998)

Imports: $40 million (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Imports - commodities: machinery and electrical equipment, food
products, petroleum products

Imports - partners: Portugal 42%, US 20%, South Africa 6% (1998)

Debt - external: $268 million (2000)

Economic aid - recipient: $200 million in December 2000 under the
HIPC program

Currency: dobra (STD)

Currency code: STD

Exchange rates: dobras per US dollar - 2390.04 (December 2000),
7,119.0 (1999), 6,883.2 (1998), 4,552.5 (1997), 2,203.2 (1996)

Fiscal year: calendar year



Sao Tome and Principe    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 3,000 (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 6,942 (1997)

Telephone system: general assessment:  adequate facilities

domestic:  minimal system

international:  satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 2, FM 4, shortwave 0 (1998)

Radios: 38,000 (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 2 (1997)

Televisions: 23,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .st

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 2 (2000)

Internet users: 500 (2000)



Sao Tome and Principe    Transportation

Railways: 0 km

Highways: total:  320 km

paved:  218 km

unpaved:  102 km (1996)

Waterways: none

Ports and harbors: Santo Antonio, Sao Tome

Merchant marine: total:  39 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
130,843 GRT/149,048 DWT

ships by type:  bulk 3, cargo 21, chemical tanker 1, container 3,
liquefied gas 1, livestock carrier 1, petroleum tanker 1,
refrigerated cargo 2, roll on/roll off 5, specialized tanker 1 (2000
est.)

Airports: 2 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  2

1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

914 to 1,523 m:  1 (2000 est.)



Sao Tome and Principe    Military

Military branches: Army, Navy, Security Police

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  34,205 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
18,043 (2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $1 million (FY94)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 1.5% (FY94)



Sao Tome and Principe    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

======================================================================

@Saudi Arabia




Saudi Arabia    Introduction

Background: In 1902 Abdul al-Aziz Ibn SAUD captured Riyadh and set
out on a 30-year campaign to unify the Arabian peninsula. In the
1930s, the discovery of oil transformed the country. Following
Iraq's invasion of Kuwait in 1990, Saudi Arabia accepted the Kuwaiti
royal family and 400,000 refugees while allowing Western and Arab
troops to deploy on its soil for the liberation of Kuwait the
following year. A burgeoning population, aquifer depletion, and an
economy largely dependent on petroleum output and prices are all
major governmental concerns.



Saudi Arabia    Geography

Location: Middle East, bordering the Persian Gulf and the Red Sea,
north of Yemen

Geographic coordinates: 25 00 N, 45 00 E

Map references: Middle East

Area: total:  1,960,582 sq km

land:  1,960,582 sq km

water:  0 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly more than one-fifth the size of the US

Land boundaries: total:  4,415 km

border countries:  Iraq 814 km, Jordan 728 km, Kuwait 222 km, Oman
676 km, Qatar 60 km, UAE 457 km, Yemen 1,458 km

Coastline: 2,640 km

Maritime claims: contiguous zone:  18 NM

continental shelf:  not specified

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: harsh, dry desert with great extremes of temperature

Terrain: mostly uninhabited, sandy desert

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Persian Gulf 0 m

highest point:  Jabal Sawda' 3,133 m

Natural resources: petroleum, natural gas, iron ore, gold, copper

Land use: arable land:  2%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  56%

forests and woodland:  1%

other:  41% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 4,350 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: frequent sand and dust storms

Environment - current issues: desertification; depletion of
underground water resources; the lack of perennial rivers or
permanent water bodies has prompted the development of extensive
seawater desalination facilities; coastal pollution from oil spills

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Climate Change,
Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the
Sea, Ozone Layer Protection

signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Geography - note: extensive coastlines on Persian Gulf and Red Sea
provide great leverage on shipping (especially crude oil) through
Persian Gulf and Suez Canal



Saudi Arabia    People

Population: 22,757,092

note:  includes 5,360,526 non-nationals (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  42.52% (male 4,932,465; female 4,743,908)

15-64 years:  54.8% (male 7,290,840; female 5,179,393)

65 years and over:  2.68% (male 334,981; female 275,505) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 3.27% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 37.34 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 5.94 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 1.32 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1.41 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  1.22 male(s)/female

total population:  1.23 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 51.25 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  68.09 years

male:  66.4 years

female:  69.85 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 6.25 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 0.01% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: NA

HIV/AIDS - deaths: NA

Nationality: noun:  Saudi(s)

adjective:  Saudi or Saudi Arabian

Ethnic groups: Arab 90%, Afro-Asian 10%

Religions: Muslim 100%

Languages: Arabic

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  62.8%

male:  71.5%

female:  50.2% (1995 est.)



Saudi Arabia    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Kingdom of Saudi Arabia

conventional short form:  Saudi Arabia

local long form:  Al Mamlakah al Arabiyah as Suudiyah

local short form:  Al Arabiyah as Suudiyah

Government type: monarchy

Capital: Riyadh

Administrative divisions: 13 provinces (mintaqat, singular -
mintaqah); Al Bahah, Al Hudud ash Shamaliyah, Al Jawf, Al Madinah,
Al Qasim, Ar Riyad, Ash Sharqiyah (Eastern Province), 'Asir, Ha'il,
Jizan, Makkah, Najran, Tabuk

Independence: 23 September 1932 (Unification of the Kingdom)

National holiday: Unification of the Kingdom, 23 September (1932)

Constitution: governed according to Shari'a (Islamic law); the Basic
Law that articulates the government's rights and responsibilities
was introduced in 1993

Legal system: based on Islamic law, several secular codes have been
introduced; commercial disputes handled by special committees; has
not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Suffrage: none

Executive branch: chief of state:  King and Prime Minister FAHD bin
Abd al-Aziz Al Saud (since 13 June 1982); Crown Prince and First
Deputy Prime Minister ABDALLAH bin Abd al-Aziz Al Saud (half-brother
to the monarch, heir to the throne since 13 June 1982, regent from 1
January to 22 February 1996); note - the monarch is both the chief
of state and head of government

head of government:  King and Prime Minister FAHD bin Abd al-Aziz Al
Saud (since 13 June 1982); Crown Prince and First Deputy Prime
Minister ABDALLAH bin Abd al-Aziz Al Saud (half-brother to the
monarch, heir to the throne since 13 June 1982, regent from 1
January to 22 February 1996); note - the monarch is both the chief
of state and head of government

cabinet:  Council of Ministers is appointed by the monarch and
includes many royal family members

elections:  none; the monarch is hereditary

Legislative branch: a consultative council (90 members and a
chairman appointed by the monarch for four-year terms)

Judicial branch: Supreme Council of Justice

Political parties and leaders: none allowed

Political pressure groups and leaders: none

International organization participation: ABEDA, AfDB, AFESD, AL,
AMF, BIS, CCC, ESCWA, FAO, G-19, G-77, GCC, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC,
ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat,
Interpol, IOC, ISO, ITU, NAM, OAPEC, OAS (observer), OIC, OPCW,
OPEC, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTrO
(observer)

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
BANDAR bin Sultan bin Abd al-Aziz Al Saud

chancery:  601 New Hampshire Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20037

telephone:  [1] (202) 342-3800

consulate(s) general:  Houston, Los Angeles, and New York

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Wyche FOWLER, Jr.

embassy:  Collector Road M, Diplomatic Quarter, Riyadh

mailing address:  American Embassy Riyadh, Unit 61307, APO AE
09803-1307; International Mail: P. O. Box 94309, Riyadh 11693

telephone:  [966] (1) 488-3800

FAX:  [966] (1) 488-7360

consulate(s) general:  Dhahran, Jiddah (Jeddah)

Flag description: green with large white Arabic script (that may be
translated as There is no God but God; Muhammad is the Messenger of
God) above a white horizontal saber (the tip points to the hoist
side); green is the traditional color of Islam



Saudi Arabia    Economy

Economy - overview: This is an oil-based economy with strong
government controls over major economic activities. Saudi Arabia has
the largest reserves of petroleum in the world (26% of the proved
reserves), ranks as the largest exporter of petroleum, and plays a
leading role in OPEC. The petroleum sector accounts for roughly 75%
of budget revenues, 40% of GDP, and 90% of export earnings. About
35% of GDP comes from the private sector. Roughly 5 million foreign
workers play an important role in the Saudi economy, for example, in
the oil and service sectors. Saudi Arabia was a key player in the
successful efforts of OPEC and other oil producing countries to
raise the price of oil in 1999-2000 to its highest level since the
Gulf war by reducing production. Riyadh expects to have a moderate
budget deficit in 2001, in part because of increased spending for
education and other social programs. The government in 1999
announced plans to begin privatizing the electricity companies,
which follows the ongoing privatization of the telecommunications
company. The government is expected to continue calling for private
sector growth to lessen the kingdom's dependence on oil and increase
employment opportunities for the swelling Saudi population.
Shortages of water and rapid population growth will constrain
government efforts to increase self-sufficiency in agricultural
products.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $232 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 4% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $10,500 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  6%

industry:  47%

services:  47% (1998 est.)

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 0.5% (2000)

Labor force: 7 million

note:  35% of the population in the 15-64 age group is non-national
(July 1998 est.)

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture 12%, industry 25%, services
63% (1999 est.)

Unemployment rate: NA%

Budget: revenues:  $66 billion

expenditures:  $66 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
(2000 est.)

Industries: crude oil production, petroleum refining, basic
petrochemicals, cement, construction, fertilizer, plastics

Industrial production growth rate: 1% (1997 est.)

Electricity - production: 120 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  100%

hydro:  0%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 111.6 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: wheat, barley, tomatoes, melons, dates,
citrus; mutton, chickens, eggs, milk

Exports: $81.2 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Exports - commodities: petroleum and petroleum products 90%

Exports - partners: Japan 18%, US 18%, France 4%, South Korea,
Singapore, India (1999)

Imports: $30.1 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Imports - commodities: machinery and equipment, foodstuffs,
chemicals, motor vehicles, textiles

Imports - partners: US 25%, Japan 10%, Germany 7%, Italy 5%, France,
UK (1999)

Debt - external: $26.3 billion (2000 est.)

Economic aid - donor: pledged $100 million in 1993 to fund
reconstruction of Lebanon; since 1993, Saudi Arabia has committed
$208 million for assistance to the Palestinians

Currency: Saudi riyal (SAR)

Currency code: SAR

Exchange rates: Saudi riyals per US dollar - 3.7450 (fixed rate
since June 1986)

Fiscal year: calendar year



Saudi Arabia    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 3.1 million (1998)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 1 million

note:  in 1998, the government contracted for the installation of
575,000 additional Group Speciale Mobile (GSM) cellular telephone
lines over 15 months to raise the total number of subscribers to
more than one million; Riyadh planned to further expand the GSM
system in 1999 by adding an additional one million lines (1998)

Telephone system: general assessment:  modern system

domestic:  extensive microwave radio relay, coaxial cable, and
fiber-optic cable systems

international:  microwave radio relay to Bahrain, Jordan, Kuwait,
Qatar, UAE, Yemen, and Sudan; coaxial cable to Kuwait and Jordan;
submarine cable to Djibouti, Egypt and Bahrain; satellite earth
stations - 5 Intelsat (3 Atlantic Ocean and 2 Indian Ocean), 1
Arabsat, and 1 Inmarsat (Indian Ocean region)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 43, FM 31, shortwave 2 (1998)

Radios: 6.25 million (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 117 (1997)

Televisions: 5.1 million (1997)

Internet country code: .sa

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 42 (2001)

Internet users: 400,000 (2001)



Saudi Arabia    Transportation

Railways: total:  1,390 km

standard gauge:  1,390 km 1.435-m gauge (448 km double track) (1992)

Highways: total:  146,524 km

paved:  44,104 km

unpaved:  102,420 km (1997 est.)

Waterways: none

Pipelines: crude oil 6,400 km; petroleum products 150 km; natural
gas 2,200 km (includes natural gas liquids 1,600 km)

Ports and harbors: Ad Dammam, Al Jubayl, Duba, Jiddah, Jizan,
Rabigh, Ra's al Khafji, Mishab, Ras Tanura, Yanbu' al Bahr, Madinat
Yanbu' al Sinaiyah

Merchant marine: total:  71 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
1,154,619 GRT/1,533,732 DWT

ships by type:  cargo 11, chemical tanker 8, container 5, liquefied
gas 1, livestock carrier 3, passenger 1, petroleum tanker 18,
refrigerated cargo 3, roll on/roll off 13, short-sea passenger 8
(2000 est.)

Airports: 206 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  70

over 3,047 m:  31

2,438 to 3,047 m:  11

1,524 to 2,437 m:  23

914 to 1,523 m:  3

under 914 m:  2 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  136

2,438 to 3,047 m:  5

1,524 to 2,437 m:  77

914 to 1,523 m:  39

under 914 m:  15 (2000 est.)

Heliports: 5 (2000 est.)



Saudi Arabia    Military

Military branches: Land Force (Army), Navy, Air Force, Air Defense
Force, National Guard, Ministry of Interior Forces (paramilitary)

Military manpower - military age: 17 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  5,894,691 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
3,291,185 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  233,402
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $18.3 billion (FY00)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 13% (FY00)



Saudi Arabia    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: a final border resolution was agreed to
with Qatar in March of 2001; location and status of boundary with
UAE is not final, de facto boundary reflects a 1974 agreement; a
June 2000 treaty delimited the boundary with Yemen, but final
demarcation requires adjustments based on tribal considerations

Illicit drugs: death penalty for traffickers; increasing consumption
of heroin and cocaine

======================================================================

@Senegal




Senegal    Introduction

Background: Independent from France in 1960, Senegal joined with The
Gambia to form the nominal confederation of Senegambia in 1982.
However, the envisaged integration of the two countries was never
carried out, and the union was dissolved in 1989. Despite peace
talks, a southern separatist group sporadically has clashed with
government forces since 1982. Senegal has a long history of
participating in international peacekeeping.



Senegal    Geography

Location: Western Africa, bordering the North Atlantic Ocean,
between Guinea-Bissau and Mauritania

Geographic coordinates: 14 00 N, 14 00 W

Map references: Africa

Area: total:  196,190 sq km

land:  192,000 sq km

water:  4,190 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly smaller than South Dakota

Land boundaries: total:  2,640 km

border countries:  The Gambia 740 km, Guinea 330 km, Guinea-Bissau
338 km, Mali 419 km, Mauritania 813 km

Coastline: 531 km

Maritime claims: contiguous zone:  24 NM

continental shelf:  200 NM or to the edge of the continental margin

exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: tropical; hot, humid; rainy season (May to November) has
strong southeast winds; dry season (December to April) dominated by
hot, dry, harmattan wind

Terrain: generally low, rolling, plains rising to foothills in
southeast

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Atlantic Ocean 0 m

highest point:  unnamed feature near Nepen Diakha 581 m

Natural resources: fish, phosphates, iron ore

Land use: arable land:  12%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  16%

forests and woodland:  54%

other:  18% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 710 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: lowlands seasonally flooded; periodic droughts

Environment - current issues: wildlife populations threatened by
poaching; deforestation; overgrazing; soil erosion; desertification;
overfishing

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous
Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Life Conservation, Nuclear Test Ban,
Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands, Whaling

signed, but not ratified:  Marine Dumping

Geography - note: The Gambia is almost an enclave of Senegal



Senegal    People

Population: 10,284,929 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  44.07% (male 2,279,996; female 2,252,255)

15-64 years:  52.88% (male 2,603,829; female 2,834,328)

65 years and over:  3.05% (male 155,877; female 158,644) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 2.93% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 37.46 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 8.35 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 0.21 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.03 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.01 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  0.92 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.98 male(s)/female

total population:  0.96 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 56.75 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  62.56 years

male:  60.94 years

female:  64.22 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 5.12 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 1.77% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 79,000 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: 7,800 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Senegalese (singular and plural)

adjective:  Senegalese

Ethnic groups: Wolof 43.3%, Pular 23.8%, Serer 14.7%, Jola 3.7%,
Mandinka 3%, Soninke 1.1%, European and Lebanese 1%, other 9.4%

Religions: Muslim 92%, indigenous beliefs 6%, Christian 2% (mostly
Roman Catholic)

Languages: French (official), Wolof, Pulaar, Jola, Mandinka

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  33.1%

male:  43%

female:  23.2% (1995 est.)



Senegal    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Republic of Senegal

conventional short form:  Senegal

local long form:  Republique du Senegal

local short form:  Senegal

Government type: republic under multiparty democratic rule

Capital: Dakar

Administrative divisions: 10 regions (regions, singular - region);
Dakar, Diourbel, Fatick, Kaolack, Kolda, Louga, Saint-Louis,
Tambacounda, Thies, Ziguinchor

Independence: 4 April 1960 (from France); complete independence was
achieved upon dissolution of federation with Mali on 20 August 1960

National holiday: Independence Day, 4 April (1960)

Constitution: 3 March 1963, revised 1991

Legal system: based on French civil law system; judicial review of
legislative acts in Constitutional Court; the Council of State
audits the government's accounting office; has not accepted
compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Abdoulaye WADE (since 1
April 2000)

head of government:  Prime Minister Madior BOYE (since 3 March 2001)

cabinet:  Council of Ministers appointed by the prime minister in
consultation with the president

elections:  president elected by popular vote for a seven-year term;
election last held 27 February and 19 March 2000 (next to be held 27
February 2007); prime minister appointed by the president

election results:  Abdoulaye WADE elected president; percent of vote
in the second round of voting - Abdoulaye WADE (PDS) 58.49%, Abdou
DIOUF (PS) 41.51%

Legislative branch: unicameral National Assembly or Assemblee
Nationale (120 seats; members are elected by direct popular vote to
serve five-year terms)

note:  the former National Assembly, dissolved in the spring of
2001, had 140 seats

elections:  last held 29 April 2001 (next to be held NA 2006)

election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
SOPI Coalition 89, AFP 11, PS 10, other 10

Judicial branch: Constitutional Court; Council of State; Court of
Final Appeals or Cour de Cassation; Court of Appeals; note-the
judicial system was reformed in 1992

Political parties and leaders: African Party for Democracy and
Socialism or And Jef (also known as PADS/AJ) [Landing SAVANE,
secretary general]; African Party of Independence [Majhemout DIOP];
Alliance of Forces of Progress or AFP [Moustapha NIASSE]; Democratic
and Patriotic Convention or CDP (also known as Garab-Gi) [Dr. Iba
Der THIAM]; Democratic League-Labor Party Movement or LD-MPT [Dr.
Abdoulaye BATHILY]; Front for Socialism and Democracy or FSD [Cheikh
Abdoulaye DIEYE]; Gainde Centrist Bloc or BGC [Jean-Paul DIAS];
Independence and Labor Party or PIT [Amath DANSOKHO]; National
Democratic Rally or RND [Madier DIOUF]; Senegalese Democratic Party
or PDS [Abdoulaye WADE]; Senegalese Democratic Party-Renewal or
PDS-R [Serigne Lamine DIOP, secretary general]; Senegalese
Democratic Union-Renewal or UDS-R [Mamadou Puritain FALL]; Socialist
Party or PS [President Abdou DIOUF]; SOPI Coalition (a 40-party
coalition led by the PDS) [Abdoulaye WADE]; Union for Democratic
Renewal or URD [Djibo Leyti KA]; other small parties

Political pressure groups and leaders: labor; Muslim brotherhoods;
students; teachers

International organization participation: ACCT, ACP, AfDB, CCC, ECA,
ECOWAS, FAO, FZ, G-15, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, ICRM,
IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat,
Interpol, IOC, IOM, ITU, MINURSO, MIPONUH, MONUC, NAM, OAU, OIC,
OPCW, PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNIKOM, UNMIBH, UNMIK, UNTAET,
UPU, WADB, WAEMU, WCL, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Mamadou Mansour SECK

chancery:  2112 Wyoming Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone:  [1] (202) 234-0540

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Harriet L. ELAM-THOMAS

embassy:  Avenue Jean XXIII at the corner of Rue Kleber, Dakar

mailing address:  B. P. 49, Dakar

telephone:  [221] 823-4296, 823-7384

FAX:  [221] 822-2991

Flag description: three equal vertical bands of green (hoist side),
yellow, and red with a small green five-pointed star centered in the
yellow band; uses the popular pan-African colors of Ethiopia



Senegal    Economy

Economy - overview: In January 1994, Senegal undertook a bold and
ambitious economic reform program with the support of the
international donor community. This reform began with a 50%
devaluation of Senegal's currency, the CFA franc, which is linked at
a fixed rate to the French franc. Government price controls and
subsidies have been steadily dismantled. After seeing its economy
contract by 2.1% in 1993, Senegal made an important turnaround,
thanks to the reform program, with real growth in GDP averaging 5%
annually in 1995-99. Annual inflation has been pushed down to 2%,
and the fiscal deficit has been cut to less than 1.5% of GDP.
Investment rose steadily from 13.8% of GDP in 1993 to 16.5% in 1997.
As a member of the West African Economic and Monetary Union (UEMOA),
Senegal is working toward greater regional integration with a
unified external tariff. Senegal also realized full Internet
connectivity in 1996, creating a miniboom in information
technology-based services. Private activity now accounts for 82% of
GDP. On the negative side, Senegal faces deep-seated urban problems
of chronic unemployment, juvenile delinquency, and drug addiction.
Real GDP growth is expected to rise above 6%, while inflation is
likely to hold at 2% in 2001-02.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $16 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 5.7% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $1,600 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  19%

industry:  20%

services:  61% (1997 est.)

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:
1.4%

highest 10%:  42.8% (1991)

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 1.5% (2000 est.)

Labor force: NA

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture 60%

Unemployment rate: NA%; urban youth 40%

Budget: revenues:  $885 million

expenditures:  $885 million, including capital expenditures of $125
million (1996 est.)

Industries: agricultural and fish processing, phosphate mining,
fertilizer production, petroleum refining, construction materials

Industrial production growth rate: 7% (1998 est.)

Electricity - production: 1.27 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  100%

hydro:  0%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 1.181 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: peanuts, millet, corn, sorghum, rice,
cotton, tomatoes, green vegetables; cattle, poultry, pigs; fish

Exports: $959 million (f.o.b., 2000)

Exports - commodities: fish, ground nuts (peanuts), petroleum
products, phosphates, cotton

Exports - partners: France 17%, India 17%, Italy 12%, Spain 6%, Mali
6%, Cote d'Ivoire 4% (1999)

Imports: $1.3 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Imports - commodities: foods and beverages, consumer goods, capital
goods, petroleum products

Imports - partners: France 30%, Nigeria 7%, Italy 6%, Thailand 5%,
Germany 4%, US 4% (1999)

Debt - external: $4.1 billion (1998 est.)

Economic aid - recipient: $647.5 million (1995)

Currency: Communaute Financiere Africaine franc (XOF); note -
responsible authority is the Central Bank of the West African States

Currency code: XOF

Exchange rates: Communaute Financiere Africaine francs (XOF) per US
dollar - 699.21 (January 2001), 711.98 (2000), 615.70 (1999), 589.95
(1998), 583.67 (1997), 511.55 (1966); note - from 1 January 1999,
the XOF is pegged to the euro at a rate of 655.957 XOF per euro

Fiscal year: calendar year



Senegal    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 116,000 (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 1,149 (1996)

Telephone system: general assessment:  good system

domestic:  above-average urban system; microwave radio relay,
coaxial cable and fiber-optic cable in trunk system

international:  4 submarine cables; satellite earth station - 1
Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 10, FM 14, shortwave 0 (1998)

Radios: 1.24 million (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 1 (1997)

Televisions: 361,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .sn

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 1 (2000)

Internet users: 30,000 (2000)



Senegal    Transportation

Railways: total:  906 km

narrow gauge:  906 km 1.000-meter gauge (70 km double track)

Highways: total:  14,576 km

paved:  4,271 km

unpaved:  10,305 km (1996)

Waterways: 897 km

note:  785 km on the Senegal river, and 112 km on the Saloum river

Ports and harbors: Dakar, Kaolack, Matam, Podor, Richard Toll,
Saint-Louis, Ziguinchor

Airports: 20 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  10

over 3,047 m:  1

1,524 to 2,437 m:  7

914 to 1,523 m:  2 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  10

1,524 to 2,437 m:  5

914 to 1,523 m:  4

under 914 m:  1 (2000 est.)



Senegal    Military

Military branches: Army, Navy, Air Force, National Gendarmerie,
National Police (Surete Nationale)

Military manpower - military age: 18 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  2,311,063 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
1,207,360 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  114,189
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $68 million (FY97)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 1.4% (FY97)



Senegal    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

Illicit drugs: transshipment point for Southwest and Southeast Asian
heroin moving to Europe and North America; illicit cultivator of
cannabis

======================================================================

@Seychelles




Seychelles    Introduction

Background: A lengthy struggle between France and Great Britain for
the islands ended in 1814, when they were ceded to the latter.
Independence came in 1976. Socialist rule was brought to a close
with a new constitution and free elections in 1993.



Seychelles    Geography

Location: Eastern Africa, group of islands in the Indian Ocean,
northeast of Madagascar

Geographic coordinates: 4 35 S, 55 40 E

Map references: Africa

Area: total:  455 sq km

land:  455 sq km

water:  0 sq km

Area - comparative: 2.5 times the size of Washington, DC

Land boundaries: 0 km

Coastline: 491 km

Maritime claims: contiguous zone:  24 NM

continental shelf:  200 NM or to the edge of the continental margin

exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: tropical marine; humid; cooler season during southeast
monsoon (late May to September); warmer season during northwest
monsoon (March to May)

Terrain: Mahe Group is granitic, narrow coastal strip, rocky, hilly;
others are coral, flat, elevated reefs

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Indian Ocean 0 m

highest point:  Morne Seychellois 905 m

Natural resources: fish, copra, cinnamon trees

Land use: arable land:  2%

permanent crops:  13%

permanent pastures:  0%

forests and woodland:  11%

other:  74% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: NA sq km

Natural hazards: lies outside the cyclone belt, so severe storms are
rare; short droughts possible

Environment - current issues: water supply depends on catchments to
collect rainwater

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous
Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone
Layer Protection, Ship Pollution

signed, but not ratified:  Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol

Geography - note: 40 granitic and about 50 coralline islands



Seychelles    People

Population: 79,715 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  28.27% (male 11,367; female 11,167)

15-64 years:  65.47% (male 25,453; female 26,737)

65 years and over:  6.26% (male 1,673; female 3,318) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 0.49% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 17.66 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 6.65 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: -6.15 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.03 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.02 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  0.95 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.5 male(s)/female

total population:  0.93 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 17.3 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  70.69 years

male:  65.17 years

female:  76.37 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 1.83 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: NA%

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: NA

HIV/AIDS - deaths: NA

Nationality: noun:  Seychellois (singular and plural)

adjective:  Seychelles

Ethnic groups: Seychellois (mixture of Asians, Africans, Europeans)

Religions: Roman Catholic 90%, Anglican 8%, other 2%

Languages: English (official), French (official), Creole

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  58%

male:  56%

female:  60% (1971 est.)



Seychelles    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Republic of Seychelles

conventional short form:  Seychelles

Government type: republic

Capital: Victoria

Administrative divisions: 23 administrative districts; Anse aux
Pins, Anse Boileau, Anse Etoile, Anse Louis, Anse Royale, Baie
Lazare, Baie Sainte Anne, Beau Vallon, Bel Air, Bel Ombre, Cascade,
Glacis, Grand' Anse (on Mahe), Grand' Anse (on Praslin), La Digue,
La Riviere Anglaise, Mont Buxton, Mont Fleuri, Plaisance, Pointe La
Rue, Port Glaud, Saint Louis, Takamaka

Independence: 29 June 1976 (from UK)

National holiday: Constitution Day, 18 June (1993)

Constitution: 18 June 1993

Legal system: based on English common law, French civil law, and
customary law

Suffrage: 17 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  President France Albert RENE
(since 5 June 1977); note - the president is both the chief of state
and head of government

head of government:  President France Albert RENE (since 5 June
1977); note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
government

cabinet:  Council of Ministers appointed by the president

elections:  president elected by popular vote for a five-year term;
election last held 20-22 March 1998 (next to be held by NA 2003)

election results:  France Albert RENE reelected president; percent
of vote - France Albert RENE (SPPF) 66.7%, Wavel RAMKALAWAN (UO)
19.5%, Sir James MANCHAM (DP) 13.8%

Legislative branch: unicameral National Assembly or Assemblee
Nationale (34 seats - 25 elected by popular vote, 9 allocated on a
proportional basis to parties winning at least ten percent of the
vote; members serve five-year terms)

elections:  last held 20-22 March 1998 (next to be held by NA 2003)

election results:  percent of vote by party - SPPF 61.7%, UO 26.1%,
DP 12.1%; seats by party - SPPF 30, UO 3, DP 1

note:  the 9 awarded seats are apportioned according to the share of
each party in the total vote

Judicial branch: Court of Appeal; Supreme Court; judges for both
courts are appointed by the president

Political parties and leaders: Democratic Party or DP [James
MANCHAM]; Seychelles National Party or SNP (formerly the United
Opposition or UO) [Wavel RAMKALAWAN]; Seychelles People's
Progressive Front or SPPF [France Albert RENE] - the governing party

Political pressure groups and leaders: Roman Catholic Church; trade
unions

International organization participation: ACCT, ACP, AfDB, C, CCC,
ECA, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, ICRM, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF,
IMO, InOC, Intelsat (nonsignatory user), Interpol, IOC, ITU, NAM,
OAU, OPCW, SADC, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WHO, WIPO, WMO,
WToO, WTrO (observer)

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Claude Sylvestre MOREL

chancery:  800 Second Avenue, Suite 400C, New York, NY 10017

telephone:  [1] (212) 972-1785

FAX:  [1] (212) 972-1786

Diplomatic representation from the US: the US does not have an
embassy in Seychelles; the ambassador to Mauritius is accredited to
Seychelles

Flag description: five oblique bands of blue (hoist side), yellow,
red, white, and green (bottom) radiating from the bottom of the
hoist side



Seychelles    Economy

Economy - overview: Since independence in 1976, per capita output in
this Indian Ocean archipelago has expanded to roughly seven times
the old near-subsistence level. Growth has been led by the tourist
sector, which employs about 30% of the labor force and provides more
than 70% of hard currency earnings, and by tuna fishing. In recent
years the government has encouraged foreign investment in order to
upgrade hotels and other services. At the same time, the government
has moved to reduce the dependence on tourism by promoting the
development of farming, fishing, and small-scale manufacturing. The
vulnerability of the tourist sector was illustrated by the sharp
drop in 1991-92 due largely to the Gulf war. Although the industry
has rebounded, the government recognizes the continuing need for
upgrading the sector in the face of stiff international competition.
Other issues facing the government are the curbing of the budget
deficit and further privatization of public enterprises. Growth
slowed in 1998-2000, due to sluggish tourist and tuna sectors. Tight
controls on exchange rates and the scarcity of foreign exchange have
hindered short-term economic prospects. The black market value of
the Seychelles ruppee is half the official exchange rate; without a
devaluation of the currency the tourist sector should remain
sluggish as vacationers seek cheaper destinations such as Comoros,
Mauritius, and Madagascar.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $610 million (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 1.5% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $7,700 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  3.1%

industry:  26.3%

services:  70.6% (1999)

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 6% (1999 est.)

Labor force: 30,900 (1996)

Labor force - by occupation: industry 19%, services 71%, agriculture
10% (1989)

Unemployment rate: NA%

Budget: revenues:  $249 million

expenditures:  $262 million, including capital expenditures of $NA
(1998 est.)

Industries: fishing; tourism; processing of coconuts and vanilla,
coir (coconut fiber) rope, boat building, printing, furniture;
beverages

Industrial production growth rate: NA%

Electricity - production: 160 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  100%

hydro:  0%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 148.8 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: coconuts, cinnamon, vanilla, sweet potatoes,
cassava (tapioca), bananas; broiler chickens; tuna fish

Exports: $111 million (f.o.b., 1999)

Exports - commodities: fish, cinnamon bark, copra, petroleum
products (reexports)

Exports - partners: France, UK, Netherlands, Italy, China, Germany,
Japan

Imports: $440 million (c.i.f., 1999)

Imports - commodities: machinery and equipment, foodstuffs,
petroleum products, chemicals

Imports - partners: South Africa, UK, China, Singapore, France, Italy

Debt - external: $240 million (1999 est.)

Economic aid - recipient: $16.4 million (1995)

Currency: Seychelles rupee (SCR)

Currency code: SCR

Exchange rates: Seychelles rupees per US dollar - 6.0397 (November
2000), 5.6009 (2000), 5,3426 (1999), 5.2622 (1998), 5.0263 (1997),
4.9700 (1996)

Fiscal year: calendar year



Seychelles    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 19,635 (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 16,316 (1999)

Telephone system: general assessment:  effective system

domestic:  radiotelephone communications between islands in the
archipelago

international:  direct radiotelephone communications with adjacent
island countries and African coastal countries; satellite earth
station - 1 Intelsat (Indian Ocean)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 1, FM 2, shortwave 2 (1998)

Radios: 42,000 (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 2 (plus 9 repeaters) (1997)

Televisions: 11,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .sc

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 1 (2000)

Internet users: 5,000 (2000)



Seychelles    Transportation

Railways: 0 km

Highways: total:  373 km

paved:  315 km

unpaved:  58 km (1997)

Waterways: none

Ports and harbors: Victoria

Merchant marine: total:  1 ship (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 5,353
GRT/7,638 DWT

ships by type:  cargo 1 (2000 est.)

Airports: 14 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  6

2,438 to 3,047 m:  1

914 to 1,523 m:  3

under 914 m:  2 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  8

914 to 1,523 m:  4

under 914 m:  4 (2000 est.)



Seychelles    Military

Military branches: Army, Coast Guard, air wing, National Guard,
Presidential Protection Unit, Police Force

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  22,951 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
11,452 (2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $13 million (FY93)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 2.8% (FY93)



Seychelles    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: claims the Chagos Archipelago
(UK-administered British Indian Ocean Territory)

======================================================================

@Sierra Leone




Sierra Leone    Introduction

Background: Since 1991, civil war between the government and the
Revolutionary United Front (RUF) has resulted in tens of thousands
of deaths and the displacement of more than 2 million people (well
over one-third of the population) many of whom are now refugees in
neighboring countries. A peace agreement, signed in July 1999,
collapsed in May 2000 after the RUF took over 500 UN peacekeepers
hostage. The RUF stepped up attacks on Guinea in December 2000,
despite a cease-fire that it signed with the Freetown government one
month earlier. As of late 2000, up to 13,000 UN peacekeepers were
protecting the capital and key towns in the south. A UK force of 750
was helping to reinforce security and train the Sierra Leone army.



Sierra Leone    Geography

Location: Western Africa, bordering the North Atlantic Ocean,
between Guinea and Liberia

Geographic coordinates: 8 30 N, 11 30 W

Map references: Africa

Area: total:  71,740 sq km

land:  71,620 sq km

water:  120 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly smaller than South Carolina

Land boundaries: total:  958 km

border countries:  Guinea 652 km, Liberia 306 km

Coastline: 402 km

Maritime claims: territorial sea:  200 NM

continental shelf:  200-m depth or to the depth of exploitation

Climate: tropical; hot, humid; summer rainy season (May to
December); winter dry season (December to April)

Terrain: coastal belt of mangrove swamps, wooded hill country,
upland plateau, mountains in east

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Atlantic Ocean 0 m

highest point:  Loma Mansa (Bintimani) 1,948 m

Natural resources: diamonds, titanium ore, bauxite, iron ore, gold,
chromite

Land use: arable land:  7%

permanent crops:  1%

permanent pastures:  31%

forests and woodland:  28%

other:  33% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 290 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: dry, sand-laden harmattan winds blow from the
Sahara (December to February); sandstorms, dust storms

Environment - current issues: rapid population growth pressuring the
environment; overharvesting of timber, expansion of cattle grazing,
and slash-and-burn agriculture have resulted in deforestation and
soil exhaustion; civil war depleting natural resources; overfishing

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental
Modification, Law of the Sea, Marine Life Conservation, Nuclear Test
Ban, Wetlands

signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements



Sierra Leone    People

Population: 5,426,618 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  44.73% (male 1,190,207; female 1,237,326)

15-64 years:  52.12% (male 1,351,455; female 1,477,155)

65 years and over:  3.15% (male 84,364; female 86,111) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 3.61% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 45.11 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 19.19 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 10.23 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

note:  by the end of 1999 refugees from Sierra Leone are assumed to
be returning

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.03 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  0.96 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  0.91 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.98 male(s)/female

total population:  0.94 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 146.52 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  45.6 years

male:  42.69 years

female:  48.61 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 6.01 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 2.99% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 68,000 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: 8,200 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Sierra Leonean(s)

adjective:  Sierra Leonean

Ethnic groups: 20 native African tribes 90% (Temne 30%, Mende 30%,
other 30%), Creole 10% (descendants of freed Jamaican slaves who
were settled in the Freetown area in the late-18th century),
refugees from Liberia's recent civil war, small numbers of
Europeans, Lebanese, Pakistanis, and Indians

Religions: Muslim 60%, indigenous beliefs 30%, Christian 10%

Languages: English (official, regular use limited to literate
minority), Mende (principal vernacular in the south), Temne
(principal vernacular in the north), Krio (English-based Creole,
spoken by the descendants of freed Jamaican slaves who were settled
in the Freetown area, a lingua franca and a first language for 10%
of the population but understood by 95%)

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write English,
Mende, Temne, or Arabic

total population:  31.4%

male:  45.4%

female:  18.2% (1995 est.)



Sierra Leone    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Republic of Sierra Leone

conventional short form:  Sierra Leone

Government type: constitutional democracy

Capital: Freetown

Administrative divisions: 3 provinces and 1 area*; Eastern,
Northern, Southern, Western*

Independence: 27 April 1961 (from UK)

National holiday: Independence Day, 27 April (1961)

Constitution: 1 October 1991; subsequently amended several times

Legal system: based on English law and customary laws indigenous to
local tribes; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Ahmad Tejan KABBAH
(since 29 March 1996, reinstated 10 March 1998); note - the
president is both the chief of state and head of government

head of government:  President Ahmad Tejan KABBAH (since 29 March
1996, reinstated 10 March 1998); note - the president is both the
chief of state and head of government

cabinet:  Ministers of State appointed by the president with the
approval of the House of Representatives; the cabinet is responsible
to the president

elections:  president elected by popular vote for a five-year term;
election held 26-27 February and 15 March 1996 (next to be held NA
September 2001); note - president's tenure of office is limited to
two five-year terms

election results:  Ahmad Tejan KABBAH elected president; percent of
vote - Ahmad Tejan KABBAH (SLPP) 59.5%, John KAREFA-SMART (UNPP)
40.5%

Legislative branch: unicameral House of Representatives (80 seats -
68 elected by popular vote, 12 filled by paramount chiefs elected in
separate elections; members serve five-year terms)

elections:  last held 26-27 February 1996 (next to be held NA 2001)

election results:  percent of vote by party - SLPP 36.1%, UNPP
21.6%, PDP 15.3%, APC 5.7%, NUP 5.3%, DCP 4.8%, other 11.2%; seats
by party - SLPP 27, UNPP 17, PDP 12, APC 5, NUP 4, DCP 3; note -
first elections since the former House of Representatives was shut
down by the military coup of 29 April 1992

Judicial branch: Supreme Court; Appeals Court; High Court

Political parties and leaders: All People's Congress or APC [Edward
Mohammed TURAY, chairman]; Democratic Centre Party or DCP [Adu Aiah
KOROMA]; National Democratic Alliance or NDA [Amadu M. B. JALLOH];
National Republican Party or NRP [Sahr Stephen MAMBU]; National
Unity Party or NUP [Dr. John KARIMU, chairman]; People's Democratic
Party or PDP [Thaimu BANGURA, chairman]; People's Progressive Party
or PPP [Abass Chernok BUNDU, chairman]; Revolutionary United Front
Party or RUFP [Foday SANKOH, chairman]; Sierra Leone People's Party
or SLPP [President Ahmad Tejan KABBAH, chairman]; United National
People's Party or UNPP [John KARIFA-SMART in exile, Raymond KAMARA,
acting leader]

Political pressure groups and leaders: Trade Unions and Student
Unions

International organization participation: ACP, AfDB, C, CCC, ECA,
ECOWAS, FAO, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD,
IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Intelsat (nonsignatory user), Interpol,
IOC, ITU, NAM, OAU, OIC, OPCW, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WCL,
WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
John Ernest LEIGH

chancery:  1701 19th Street NW, Washington, DC 20009

telephone:  [1] (202) 939-9261 through 9263

FAX:  [1] (202) 483-1793

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Joseph H. MELROSE, Jr.

embassy:  Corner of Walpole and Siaka Stevens Streets, Freetown

mailing address:  use embassy street address

telephone:  [232] (22) 226481 through 226485

FAX:  [232] (22) 225471

Flag description: three equal horizontal bands of light green (top),
white, and light blue



Sierra Leone    Economy

Economy - overview: Sierra Leone is an extremely poor African nation
with tremendous inequality in income distribution. It does have
substantial mineral, agricultural, and fishery resources. However,
the economic and social infrastructure is not well developed, and
serious social disorders continue to hamper economic development.
About two-thirds of the working-age population engages in
subsistence agriculture. Manufacturing consists mainly of the
processing of raw materials and of light manufacturing for the
domestic market. Bauxite and rutile mines have been shut down by
civil strife. The major source of hard currency is found in the
mining of diamonds, the large majority of which are smuggled out of
the country. The resurgence of internal warfare in 1999 brought
another substantial drop in GDP, with GNP recovering part of the way
in 2000. The fate of the economy depends upon the maintenance of
domestic peace and the continued receipt of substantial aid from
abroad.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $2.7 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 4.2% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $510 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  43%

industry:  26%

services:  31% (1999)

Population below poverty line: 68% (1989 est.)

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:
0.5%

highest 10%:  43.6% (1989)

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 15% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 1.369 million (1981 est.)

note:  only about 65,000 wage earners (1985)

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture NA%, industry NA%, services
NA%

Unemployment rate: NA%

Budget: revenues:  $96 million

expenditures:  $351 million, including capital expenditures of $NA
(2000 est.)

Industries: mining (diamonds); small-scale manufacturing (beverages,
textiles, cigarettes, footwear); petroleum refining

Industrial production growth rate: NA%

Electricity - production: 240 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  100%

hydro:  0%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 223.2 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: rice, coffee, cocoa, palm kernels, palm oil,
peanuts; poultry, cattle, sheep, pigs; fish

Exports: $65 million (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Exports - commodities: diamonds, rutile, cocoa, coffee, fish

Exports - partners: Belgium 38%, US 6%, Italy 4%, UK 4% (1999)

Imports: $145 million (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Imports - commodities: foodstuffs, machinery and equipment, fuels
and lubricants, chemicals

Imports - partners: UK 34%, US 8%, Italy 7%, Nigeria 5% (1999)

Debt - external: $1.28 billion (1999)

Economic aid - recipient: $203.7 million (1995)

Currency: leone (SLL)

Currency code: SLL

Exchange rates: leones per US dollar - 1,653.39 (January 2001),
2,092.13 (2000), 1,804.20 (1999), 1,563.62 (1998), 981.48 (1997),
920.73 (1996)

Fiscal year: calendar year



Sierra Leone    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 17,000 (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 650 (1999)

Telephone system: general assessment:  marginal telephone and
telegraph service

domestic:  national microwave radio relay trunk system, made
unserviceable by military activities, is now operating from Freetown
to Bo and Kenema (April 2001)

international:  satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 1, FM 9, shortwave 1 (1999)

Radios: 1.12 million (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 2 (1999)

Televisions: 53,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .sl

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 1 (2000)

Internet users: 2,000 (2000)



Sierra Leone    Transportation

Railways: total:  84 km used on a limited basis because the mine at
Marampa is closed

narrow gauge:  84 km 1.067-m gauge

Highways: total:  11,300 km

paved:  904 km

unpaved:  10,396 km (1997)

Waterways: 800 km (of which 600 km navigable year round)

Ports and harbors: Bonthe, Freetown, Pepel

Merchant marine: total:  1 ship (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 2,057
GRT/3,498 DWT

ships by type:  cargo 1 (2000 est.)

Airports: 11 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  1

over 3,047 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  10

914 to 1,523 m:  7

under 914 m:  3 (2000 est.)

Heliports: 1 (2000 est.)



Sierra Leone    Military

Military branches: Army

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  1,161,790 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
563,631 (2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $46 million (FY96/97)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 2% (FY96/97)



Sierra Leone    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: civil war has engendered massive refugee
movements into neighboring Guinea and Liberia

======================================================================

@Singapore




Singapore    Introduction

Background: Founded as a British trading colony in 1819, Singapore
joined Malaysia in 1963, but withdrew two years later and became
independent. It subsequently became one of the world's most
prosperous countries, with strong international trading links (its
port is one of the world's busiest) and with per capita GDP above
that of the leading nations of Western Europe.



Singapore    Geography

Location: Southeastern Asia, islands between Malaysia and Indonesia

Geographic coordinates: 1 22 N, 103 48 E

Map references: Southeast Asia

Area: total:  647.5 sq km

land:  637.5 sq km

water:  10 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly more than 3.5 times the size of
Washington, DC

Land boundaries: 0 km

Coastline: 193 km

Maritime claims: exclusive fishing zone:  within and beyond
territorial sea, as defined in treaties and practice

territorial sea:  3 NM

Climate: tropical; hot, humid, rainy; two distinct monsoon seasons -
Northeastern monsoon from December to March and Southwestern monsoon
from June to September; inter-monsoon - frequent afternoon and early
evening thunderstorms

Terrain: lowland; gently undulating central plateau contains water
catchment area and nature preserve

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Singapore Strait 0 m

highest point:  Bukit Timah 166 m

Natural resources: fish, deepwater ports

Land use: arable land:  2%

permanent crops:  6%

permanent pastures:  0%

forests and woodland:  5%

other:  87% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: NA sq km

Natural hazards: NA

Environment - current issues: industrial pollution; limited natural
fresh water resources; limited land availability presents waste
disposal problems; seasonal smoke/haze resulting from forest fires
in Indonesia

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous
Wastes, Law of the Sea, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection,
Ship Pollution

signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Geography - note: focal point for Southeast Asian sea routes



Singapore    People

Population: 4,300,419 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  17.89% (male 397,124; female 372,058)

15-64 years:  75.16% (male 1,575,381; female 1,656,838)

65 years and over:  6.95% (male 130,815; female 168,203) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 3.5% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 12.8 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 4.24 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 26.45 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.08 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.07 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  0.95 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.78 male(s)/female

total population:  0.96 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 3.62 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  80.17 years

male:  77.22 years

female:  83.35 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 1.22 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 0.19% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 4,000 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: 210 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Singaporean(s)

adjective:  Singapore

Ethnic groups: Chinese 76.7%, Malay 14%, Indian 7.9%, other 1.4%

Religions: Buddhist (Chinese), Muslim (Malays), Christian, Hindu,
Sikh, Taoist, Confucianist

Languages: Chinese (official), Malay (official and national), Tamil
(official), English (official)

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  93.5%

male:  97%

female:  89.8% (1999)



Singapore    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Republic of Singapore

conventional short form:  Singapore

Government type: parliamentary republic

Capital: Singapore

Administrative divisions: none

Independence: 9 August 1965 (from Malaysia)

National holiday: Independence Day, 9 August (1965)

Constitution: 3 June 1959, amended 1965 (based on preindependence
State of Singapore Constitution)

Legal system: based on English common law; has not accepted
compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Suffrage: 21 years of age; universal and compulsory

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Sellapan Rama (S. R.)
NATHAN (since 1 September 1999)

head of government:  Prime Minister GOH Chok Tong (since 28 November
1990) and Deputy Prime Ministers LEE Hsien Loong (since 28 November
1990) and Tony TAN Keng Yam (since 1 August 1995)

cabinet:  Cabinet appointed by the president, responsible to
Parliament

elections:  president elected by popular vote for a six-year term;
election last held 28 August 1999 (next to be held NA August 2005);
following legislative elections, the leader of the majority party or
the leader of a majority coalition is usually appointed prime
minister by the president; deputy prime ministers appointed by the
president

election results:  Sellapan Rama (S. R.) NATHAN elected president
unopposed

Legislative branch: unicameral Parliament (83 seats; members elected
by popular vote to serve five-year terms)

elections:  last held 2 January 1997 (next to be held by 26 August
2002)

election results:  percent of vote by party - PAP 65% (in contested
constituencies), other 35%; seats by party - PAP 81, WP 1, SPP 1;
note - subsequent to the election, there was a change in the
distribution of seats, the new distribution is as follows: PAP 80,
WP 1, SPP 1, vacant 1

Judicial branch: Supreme Court (chief justice is appointed by the
president with the advice of the prime minister, other judges are
appointed by the president with the advice of the chief justice);
Court of Appeals

Political parties and leaders: People's Action Party or PAP [GOH
Chok Tong, secretary general] - the governing party; Singapore
Democratic Party or SDP [CHEE Soon Juan]; Singapore People's Party
or SPP [CHIAM See Tong]; Workers' Party or WP [J. B. JEYARETNAM]

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: APEC, ARF, AsDB, ASEAN,
Australia Group (observer), BIS, C, CCC, CP, ESCAP, G-77, IAEA,
IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, ICRM, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO,
Inmarsat, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, ISO, ITU, NAM, OPCW, PCA, UN, UN
Security Council (temporary), UNCTAD, UNIKOM, UNMEE, UNTAET, UPU,
WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTrO

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
CHAN Heng Chee

chancery:  3501 International Place NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone:  [1] (202) 537-3100

FAX:  [1] (202) 537-0876

consulate(s) general:  Los Angeles, San Francisco

consulate(s):  New York

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
(vacant)

embassy:  27 Napier Road, Singapore 258508

mailing address:  PSC Box 470, FPO AP 96534-0001

telephone:  [65] 476-9100

FAX:  [65] 476-9340

Flag description: two equal horizontal bands of red (top) and white;
near the hoist side of the red band, there is a vertical, white
crescent (closed portion is toward the hoist side) partially
enclosing five white five-pointed stars arranged in a circle



Singapore    Economy

Economy - overview: Singapore is blessed with a highly developed and
successful free-market economy, a remarkably open and
corruption-free business environment, stable prices, and the fifth
highest per capita GDP in the world. Exports, particularly in
electronics and chemicals, and services are the main drivers of the
economy. Mainly because of robust exports, especially electronic
goods, the economy grew 10.1% in 2000. Forecasters, however, are
projecting only 4%-6% growth in 2001 largely because of weaker
global demand, especially in the US. The government promotes high
levels of savings and investment through a mandatory savings scheme
and spends heavily in education and technology. It also owns
government-linked companies (GLCs) - particularly in manufacturing -
that operate as commercial entities. As Singapore looks to a future
increasingly marked by globalization, the country is positioning
itself as the region's financial and high-tech hub.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $109.8 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 10.1% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $26,500 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  NEGL%

industry:  30%

services:  70%

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 1.4% (2000)

Labor force: 2.1 million (2000)

Labor force - by occupation: financial, business, and other services
35%, manufacturing 21%, construction 13%, transportation and
communication 9%

Unemployment rate: 3% (2000 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $18.1 billion

expenditures:  $17.1 billion, including capital expenditures of $9.5
billion (FY99/00 est.)

Industries: electronics, chemicals, financial services, oil drilling
equipment, petroleum refining, rubber processing and rubber
products, processed food and beverages, ship repair, entrepot trade,
biotechnology

Industrial production growth rate: 14% (2000 est.)

Electricity - production: 27.381 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  100%

hydro:  0%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 25.464 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: rubber, copra, fruit, orchids, vegetables;
poultry, eggs, fish, ornamental fish

Exports: $137 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Exports - commodities: machinery and equipment (including
electronics), chemicals, mineral fuels

Exports - partners: US 19%, Malaysia 17%, Hong Kong 8%, Japan 7%,
Taiwan 5%, Thailand 4%, UK 4%, Netherlands 3.8%, China 3%, South
Korea 3%, Germany 3% (1999)

Imports: $127 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Imports - commodities: machinery and equipment, mineral fuels,
chemicals, foodstuffs

Imports - partners: US 17%, Japan 17%, Malaysia 16%, Thailand 5%,
China 5%, Taiwan 4%, Germany 3%, Saudi Arabia 3% (1999)

Debt - external: $9.7 billion (2000)

Economic aid - recipient: $NA

Currency: Singapore dollar (SGD)

Currency code: SGD

Exchange rates: Singapore dollars per US dollar - 1.7365 (January
2001), 1.7240 (2000), 1.6950 (1999), 1.6736 (1998), 1.4848 (1997),
1.4100 (1996)

Fiscal year: 1 April - 31 March



Singapore    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 1.928 million (November 2000)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 2.333 million (November 2000)

Telephone system: general assessment:  major consideration given to
serving business interests; excellent international service

domestic:  excellent domestic facilities

international:  submarine cables to Malaysia (Sabah and Peninsular
Malaysia), Indonesia, and the Philippines; satellite earth stations
- 2 Intelsat (1 Indian Ocean and 1 Pacific Ocean), and 1 Inmarsat
(Pacific Ocean region)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 0, FM 16, shortwave 2 (1998)

Radios: 2.6 million (2000)

Television broadcast stations: 6 (2000)

Televisions: 1.33 million (1997)

Internet country code: .sg

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 9 (2000)

Internet users: 1.74 million (2000)



Singapore    Transportation

Railways: total:  38.6 km

narrow gauge:  38.6 km 1.000-m gauge

note:  there is a 83 km mass transit system with 48 stations

Highways: total:  3,150 km

paved:  3,066 km (including 150 km of expressways)

unpaved:  84 km (2000)

Waterways: none

Ports and harbors: Singapore

Merchant marine: total:  879 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
20,849,168 GRT/33,215,317 DWT

ships by type:  bulk 134, cargo 111, chemical tanker 63, combination
bulk 10, combination ore/oil 6, container 167, liquefied gas 28,
livestock carrier 2, multi-functional large-load carrier 4,
passenger 1, petroleum tanker 295, refrigerated cargo 7, roll
on/roll off 7, short-sea passenger 1, specialized tanker 10, vehicle
carrier 33

note:  includes some foreign-owned ships registered here as a flag
of convenience: Australia 1, Bermuda 12, Belgium 6, China 9, Denmark
29, Germany 8, Greece 1, Hong Kong 20, Indonesia 9, Japan 32, South
Korea 3, Netherlands 2, Norway 9, Russia 1, Sweden 22, Thailand 22,
Taiwan 17, UK 3, US 10 (2000 est.)

Airports: 9 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  9

over 3,047 m:  2

2,438 to 3,047 m:  1

1,524 to 2,437 m:  4

914 to 1,523 m:  1

under 914 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Heliports: 1 (2000 est.)



Singapore    Military

Military branches: Army, Navy, Air Force, People's Defense Force,
Police Force

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  1,316,815 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
959,636 (2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $5 billion (FY00/01 est.)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 4.5% (FY00/01 est.)



Singapore    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: Pedra Branca Island (Pulau Batu Putih)
disputed with Malaysia

Illicit drugs: as a transportation and financial services hub,
Singapore is vulnerable, despite strict laws and enforcement, to use
as a transit point for Golden Triangle heroin and as a venue for
money laundering

======================================================================

@Slovakia




Slovakia    Introduction

Background: In 1918 the Slovaks joined the closely related Czechs to
form Czechoslovakia. Following the chaos of World War II,
Czechoslovakia became a communist nation within Soviet-ruled Eastern
Europe. Soviet influence collapsed in 1989 and Czechoslovakia once
more became free. The Slovaks and the Czechs agreed to separate
peacefully on 1 January 1993. Historic, political, and geographic
factors have caused Slovakia to experience more difficulty in
developing a modern market economy than some of its Central European
neighbors.



Slovakia    Geography

Location: Central Europe, south of Poland

Geographic coordinates: 48 40 N, 19 30 E

Map references: Europe

Area: total:  48,845 sq km

land:  48,800 sq km

water:  45 sq km

Area - comparative: about twice the size of New Hampshire

Land boundaries: total:  1,355 km

border countries:  Austria 91 km, Czech Republic 215 km, Hungary 515
km, Poland 444 km, Ukraine 90 km

Coastline: 0 km (landlocked)

Maritime claims: none (landlocked)

Climate: temperate; cool summers; cold, cloudy, humid winters

Terrain: rugged mountains in the central and northern part and
lowlands in the south

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Bodrok River 94 m

highest point:  Gerlachovsky Stit 2,655 m

Natural resources: brown coal and lignite; small amounts of iron
ore, copper and manganese ore; salt; arable land

Land use: arable land:  31%

permanent crops:  3%

permanent pastures:  17%

forests and woodland:  41%

other:  8% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 800 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: NA

Environment - current issues: air pollution from metallurgical
plants presents human health risks; acid rain damaging forests

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Air Pollution,
Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air Pollution-Sulphur 85, Air
Pollution-Sulphur 94, Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds,
Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Endangered Species,
Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea,
Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands

signed, but not ratified:  Air Pollution-Persistent Organic
Pollutants, Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol

Geography - note: landlocked



Slovakia    People

Population: 5,414,937 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  18.86% (male 522,563; female 498,832)

15-64 years:  69.6% (male 1,872,496; female 1,896,249)

65 years and over:  11.54% (male 236,996; female 387,801) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 0.13% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 10.05 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 9.25 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 0.53 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  0.99 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.61 male(s)/female

total population:  0.95 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 8.97 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  73.97 years

male:  69.95 years

female:  78.2 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 1.25 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: less than 0.01% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 400 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: less than 100 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Slovak(s)

adjective:  Slovak

Ethnic groups: Slovak 85.7%, Hungarian 10.6%, Roma 1.6% (the 1992
census figures underreport the Gypsy/Romany community, which is
about 500,000), Czech, Moravian, Silesian 1.1%, Ruthenian and
Ukrainian 0.6%, German 0.1%, Polish 0.1%, other 0.2% (1996)

Religions: Roman Catholic 60.3%, atheist 9.7%, Protestant 8.4%,
Orthodox 4.1%, other 17.5%

Languages: Slovak (official), Hungarian

Literacy: definition:  NA

total population:  NA%

male:  NA%

female:  NA%



Slovakia    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Slovak Republic

conventional short form:  Slovakia

local long form:  Slovenska Republika

local short form:  Slovensko

Government type: parliamentary democracy

Capital: Bratislava

Administrative divisions: 8 regions (kraje, singular - kraj);
Banskobystricky, Bratislavsky, Kosicky, Nitriansky, Presovsky,
Trenciansky, Trnavsky, Zilinsky

Independence: 1 January 1993 (Czechoslovakia split into the Czech
Republic and Slovakia)

National holiday: Constitution Day, 1 September (1992)

Constitution: ratified 1 September 1992, fully effective 1 January
1993; changed in September 1998 to allow direct election of the
president; amended February 2001 to allow Slovakia to apply for NATO
and EU membership

Legal system: civil law system based on Austro-Hungarian codes; has
not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction; legal code modified to
comply with the obligations of Organization on Security and
Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) and to expunge Marxist-Leninist legal
theory

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Rudolf SCHUSTER (since
15 June 1999)

head of government:  Prime Minister Mikulas DZURINDA (since 30
October 1998)

cabinet:  Cabinet appointed by the president on the recommendation
of the prime minister

elections:  president elected by direct popular vote for a five-year
term; election last held 29 May 1999 (next to be held NA May/June
2004); following National Council elections, the leader of the
majority party or the leader of a majority coalition is usually
appointed prime minister by the president

election results:  Rudolf SCHUSTER elected president in the first
direct, popular election; percent of vote - Rudolf SCHUSTER 57%

note:  government coalition - SDK, SDL, SMK, SOP, KDH

Legislative branch: unicameral National Council of the Slovak
Republic or Narodna Rada Slovenskej Republiky (150 seats; members
are elected on the basis of proportional representation to serve
four-year terms)

elections:  last held 25-26 September 1998 (next to be held NA
September 2002)

election results:  percent of vote by party - HZDS 27%, SDK 26.3%,
SDL 14.7%, SMK 9.1%, SNS 9.1%, SOP 8%; seats by party - governing
coalition 93 (SDK 42, SDL 23, SMK 15, SOP 13), opposition 57 (HZDS
43, SNS 14)

Judicial branch: Supreme Court (judges are elected by the National
Council); Constitutional Court (judges appointed by president from
group of nominees approved by the National Council)

Political parties and leaders: Christian Democratic Movement or KDH
[Pavol HRUSOVSKY]; Liberal Democratic Union or LDU [Jan BUDAJ];
Movement for a Democratic Slovakia or HZDS [Vladimir MECIAR]; Party
of Civic Understanding or SOP [Pavol HAMZIK]; Party of the
Democratic Left or SDL [Jozef MIGAS]; Party of the Hungarian
Coalition or SMK [Bela BUGAR]; Slovak Democratic and Christian Union
or SDKU [Mikulas DZURINDA]; note - this is DZURINDA's new party for
2002 elections; he remains chairman of a rump and splintering SDK;
Slovak Democratic Coalition or SDK (loose parliamentary club
grouping representing members of the smaller SSDS, SZS, and those
committed to run under SDKU in 2002) [Mikulas DZURINDA]; Slovak
National Party or SNS [Anna MALIKOVA]

Political pressure groups and leaders: Association of Employers of
Slovakia; Association of Towns and Villages or ZMOS; Confederation
of Trade Unions or KOZ; Metal Workers Unions or KOVO and METALURG

International organization participation: Australia Group, BIS, BSEC
(observer), CCC, CE, CEI, CERN, EAPC, EBRD, ECE, EU (applicant),
FAO, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF,
IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat (nonsignatory user), Interpol, IOC, IOM,
ISO, ITU, NAM (guest), NSG, OECD, OPCW, OSCE, PCA, PFP, UN, UNCTAD,
UNDOF, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNMEE, UNTSO, UPU, WCL, WEU (associate
partner), WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO, ZC

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Martin BUTORA

chancery:  Suite 250, 2201 Wisconsin Avenue NW, Washington, DC
20007; note - new chancery opening in June 2001 at International
Court NW, Washington, DC

telephone:  [1] (202) 965-5161

FAX:  [1] (202) 965-5166

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Carl SPIELVOGEL

embassy:  Hviezdoslavovo Namestie 4, 81102 Bratislava

mailing address:  use embassy street address

telephone:  [421] (7) 5443-3338

FAX:  [421] (7) 5443-0096

Flag description: three equal horizontal bands of white (top), blue,
and red superimposed with the Slovak cross in a shield centered on
the hoist side; the cross is white centered on a background of red
and blue



Slovakia    Economy

Economy - overview: Slovakia continues the difficult transition from
a centrally planned economy to a modern market economy. The economic
slowdown in 1999 stemmed from large budget and current account
deficits, fast-growing external debt, and persistent corruption.
Even though GDP growth reached only 2.2% in 2000, the year was
marked by positive developments such as foreign direct investment of
$1.5 billion, strong export performance, restructuring and
privatization in the banking sector, entry into the OECD, and
initial efforts to stem corruption. Strong challenges face the
government in 2001, especially the maintenance of fiscal balance,
the further privatization of the economy, and the reduction of
unemployment.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $55.3 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 2.2% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $10,200 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  4.5%

industry:  29.3%

services:  66.2% (1999 est.)

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:
5.1%

highest 10%:  18.2% (1992)

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 12.2% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 3 million (1999)

Labor force - by occupation: industry 29.3%, agriculture 8.9%,
construction 8%, transport and communication 8.2%, services 45.6%
(1994)

Unemployment rate: 17% (2000 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $5.2 billion

expenditures:  $5.6 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
(1999)

Industries: metal and metal products; food and beverages;
electricity, gas, coke, oil, nuclear fuel; chemicals and manmade
fibers; machinery; paper and printing; earthenware and ceramics;
transport vehicles; textiles; electrical and optical apparatus;
rubber products

Industrial production growth rate: 9.3% (2000 est.)

Electricity - production: 22.582 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  37.56%

hydro:  18.27%

nuclear:  44.17%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 21.471 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 930 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 1.4 billion kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: grains, potatoes, sugar beets, hops, fruit;
pigs, cattle, poultry; forest products

Exports: $12 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Exports - commodities: machinery and transport equipment 39.4%,
intermediate manufactured goods 27.5%, miscellaneous manufactured
goods 13%, chemicals 8% (1999)

Exports - partners: EU 59.7% (Germany 27.8%, Austria 8%, Italy
8.9%), Czech Republic 18.1% (1999)

Imports: $12.8 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Imports - commodities: machinery and transport equipment 37.7%,
intermediate manufactured goods 18%, fuels 13%, chemicals 11%,
miscellaneous manufactured goods 9.5% (1999)

Imports - partners: EU 51.4% (Germany 26%, Italy 7.1%), Czech
Republic 16.6%, Russia 11.9% (1999)

Debt - external: $10.3 billion (2000 est.)

Economic aid - recipient: $421.9 million (1995)

Currency: Slovak koruna (SKK)

Currency code: SKK

Exchange rates: koruny per US dollar - 48.09 (March 2001), 46.395
(2000), 41.363 (1999), 35.233 (1998), 33.616 (1997), 30.654 (1996)

Fiscal year: calendar year



Slovakia    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 1,934,558 (1998)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 736,662 (April 1999)

Telephone system: general assessment:  a modernization and
privatization program is increasing accessibility to telephone
service, reducing the waiting time for new subscribers, and
generally improving service quality

domestic:  predominantly an analog system that is now receiving
digital equipment and is being enlarged with fiber-optic cable,
especially in the larger cities; mobile cellular capability has been
added

international:  three international exchanges (one in Bratislava and
two in Banska Bystrica) are available; Slovakia is participating in
several international telecommunications projects that will increase
the availability of external services

Radio broadcast stations: AM 15, FM 78, shortwave 2 (1998)

Radios: 3.12 million (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 38 (plus 864 repeaters) (1995)

Televisions: 2.62 million (1997)

Internet country code: .sk

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 6 (2000)

Internet users: 700,000 (2000)



Slovakia    Transportation

Railways: total:  3,660 km

broad gauge:  102 km 1.520-m gauge

standard gauge:  3,507 km 1.435-m gauge (1,505 km electrified; 1,011
km double track)

narrow gauge:  51 km (46 km 1,000-m gauge; 5 km 0.750-m gauge) (1998)

Highways: total:  17,710 km

paved:  17,533 km (including 288 km of expressways)

unpaved:  177 km (1998 est.)

Waterways: 172 km (all on the Danube)

Pipelines: petroleum products NA km; natural gas 2,700 km

Ports and harbors: Bratislava, Komarno

Merchant marine: total:  3 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 15,041
GRT/19,517 DWT

ships by type:  cargo 3 (2000 est.)

Airports: 35 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  18

over 3,047 m:  1

2,438 to 3,047 m:  3

1,524 to 2,437 m:  3

914 to 1,523 m:  3

under 914 m:  8 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  17

2,438 to 3,047 m:  1

914 to 1,523 m:  9

under 914 m:  7 (2000 est.)



Slovakia    Military

Military branches: Ground Forces, Air and Air Defense Forces,
Territorial Defense Forces, Civil Defense Force

Military manpower - military age: 18 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  1,487,093 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
1,136,811 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  45,502
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $380 million (FY00)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 1.71% (FY00)



Slovakia    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: Gabcikovo/Nagymaros Dam dispute with
Hungary is before the ICJ

Illicit drugs: transshipment point for Southwest Asian heroin bound
for Western Europe

======================================================================

@Slovenia




Slovenia    Introduction

Background: In 1918 the Slovenes joined the Serbs and Croats in
forming a new nation, renamed Yugoslavia in 1929. After World War
II, Slovenia became a republic of the renewed Yugoslavia, which
though communist, distanced itself from Moscow's rule. Dissatisfied
with the exercise of power of the majority Serbs, the Slovenes
succeeded in establishing their independence in 1991. Historical
ties to Western Europe, a strong economy, and a stable democracy
make Slovenia a leading candidate for future membership in the EU
and NATO.



Slovenia    Geography

Location: Southeastern Europe, eastern Alps bordering the Adriatic
Sea, between Austria and Croatia

Geographic coordinates: 46 00 N, 15 00 E

Map references: Europe

Area: total:  20,253 sq km

land:  20,253 sq km

water:  0 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly smaller than New Jersey

Land boundaries: total:  1,165 km

border countries:  Austria 330 km, Croatia 501 km, Italy 232 km,
Hungary 102 km

Coastline: 46.6 km

Maritime claims: NA

Climate: Mediterranean climate on the coast, continental climate
with mild to hot summers and cold winters in the plateaus and
valleys to the east

Terrain: a short coastal strip on the Adriatic, an alpine mountain
region adjacent to Italy and Austria, mixed mountain and valleys
with numerous rivers to the east

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Adriatic Sea 0 m

highest point:  Triglav 2,864 m

Natural resources: lignite coal, lead, zinc, mercury, uranium,
silver, hydropower

Land use: arable land:  12%

permanent crops:  3%

permanent pastures:  24%

forests and woodland:  54%

other:  7% (1996 est.)

Irrigated land: 20 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: flooding and earthquakes

Environment - current issues: Sava River polluted with domestic and
industrial waste; pollution of coastal waters with heavy metals and
toxic chemicals; forest damage near Koper from air pollution
(originating at metallurgical and chemical plants) and resulting
acid rain

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Air Pollution,
Air Pollution-Sulphur 94, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Endangered
Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Nuclear
Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands

signed, but not ratified:  Air Pollution-Persistent Organic
Pollutants, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol



Slovenia    People

Population: 1,930,132 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  16.09% (male 159,428; female 151,134)

15-64 years:  69.61% (male 681,333; female 662,170)

65 years and over:  14.3% (male 101,354; female 174,713) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 0.14% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 9.32 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 9.98 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 2.11 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.06 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1.03 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.58 male(s)/female

total population:  0.95 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 4.51 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  75.08 years

male:  71.2 years

female:  79.17 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 1.28 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 0.02% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 200 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: less than 100 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Slovene(s)

adjective:  Slovenian

Ethnic groups: Slovene 88%, Croat 3%, Serb 2%, Bosniak 1%, Yugoslav
0.6%, Hungarian 0.4%, other 5% (1991)

Religions: Roman Catholic 68.8%, Uniate Catholic 2%, Lutheran 1%,
Muslim 1%, atheist 4.3%, other 22.9%

Languages: Slovenian 91%, Serbo-Croatian 6%, other 3%

Literacy: definition:  NA

total population:  99%

male:  NA%

female:  NA%



Slovenia    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Republic of Slovenia

conventional short form:  Slovenia

local long form:  Republika Slovenija

local short form:  Slovenija

Government type: parliamentary democratic republic

Capital: Ljubljana

Administrative divisions: 136 municipalities (obcine, singular -
obcina) and 11 urban municipalities* (mestne obcine , singular -
mestna obcina ) Ajdovscina, Beltinci, Bled, Bohinj, Borovnica,
Bovec, Brda, Brezice, Brezovica, Cankova-Tisina, Celje*, Cerklje na
Gorenjskem, Cerknica, Cerkno, Crensovci, Crna na Koroskem, Crnomelj,
Destrnik-Trnovska Vas, Divaca, Dobrepolje, Dobrova-Horjul-Polhov
Gradec, Dol pri Ljubljani, Domzale, Dornava, Dravograd, Duplek,
Gorenja Vas-Poljane, Gorisnica, Gornja Radgona, Gornji Grad, Gornji
Petrovci, Grosuplje, Hodos Salovci, Hrastnik, Hrpelje-Kozina,
Idrija, Ig, Ilirska Bistrica, Ivancna Gorica, Izola, Jesenice,
Jursinci, Kamnik, Kanal, Kidricevo, Kobarid, Kobilje, Kocevje,
Komen, Koper*, Kozje, Kranj*, Kranjska Gora, Krsko, Kungota, Kuzma,
Lasko, Lenart, Lendava, Litija, Ljubljana*, Ljubno, Ljutomer,
Logatec, Loska Dolina, Loski Potok, Luce, Lukovica, Majsperk,
Maribor*, Medvode, Menges, Metlika, Mezica, Miren-Kostanjevica,
Mislinja, Moravce, Moravske Toplice, Mozirje, Murska Sobota*, Muta,
Naklo, Nazarje, Nova Gorica*, Novo Mesto*, Odranci, Ormoz, Osilnica,
Pesnica, Piran, Pivka, Podcetrtek, Podvelka-Ribnica, Postojna,
Preddvor, Ptuj*, Puconci, Race-Fram, Radece, Radenci, Radlje ob
Dravi, Radovljica, Ravne-Prevalje, Ribnica, Rogasevci, Rogaska
Slatina, Rogatec, Ruse, Semic, Sencur, Sentilj, Sentjernej, Sentjur
pri Celju, Sevnica, Sezana, Skocjan, Skofja Loka, Skofljica, Slovenj
Gradec*, Slovenska Bistrica, Slovenske Konjice, Smarje pri Jelsah,
Smartno ob Paki, Sostanj, Starse, Store, Sveti Jurij, Tolmin,
Trbovlje, Trebnje, Trzic, Turnisce, Velenje*, Velike Lasce, Videm,
Vipava, Vitanje, Vodice, Vojnik, Vrhnika, Vuzenica, Zagorje ob Savi,
Zalec, Zavrc, Zelezniki, Ziri, Zrece

note:  there may be 45 more municipalities

Independence: 25 June 1991 (from Yugoslavia)

National holiday: Independence Day/Statehood Day, 25 June (1991)

Constitution: adopted 23 December 1991, effective 23 December 1991

Legal system: based on civil law system

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal (16 years of age, if employed)

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Milan KUCAN (since 22
April 1990)

head of government:  Prime Minister Janez DRNOVSEK (since 15 October
2000);

cabinet:  Council of Ministers nominated by the prime minister and
elected by the National Assembly

elections:  president elected by popular vote for a five-year term;
election last held 24 November 1997 (next to be held NA 2002);
following National Assembly elections, the leader of the majority
party or the leader of a majority coalition is usually nominated to
become prime minister by the president and elected by the National
Assembly; election last held 15 October 2000 (next to be held NA
October 2004)

election results:  Milan KUCAN elected president; percent of vote -
Milan KUCAN 56.3%, Janez PODOBNIK 18%; Janez DRNOVSEK elected prime
minister; percent of National Assembly vote - NA

Legislative branch: unicameral National Assembly or Drzavni Zbor (90
seats, 40 are directly elected and 50 are selected on a proportional
basis; note - the numbers of directly elected and proportionally
elected seats varies with each election; members are elected by
popular vote to serve four-year terms)

elections:  National Assembly - last held 15 October 2000 (next to
be held NA October 2004)

election results:  percent of vote by party - LDS 36%, SDS 16%, ZLSD
12%, SLS/SKD 10%, NSI 9%, SMS 4%, SNS 4%, DeSUS 5%, other 4%; seats
by party - LDS 34, SDS 14, ZLDS 11, SLS/SKD 9, NSI 8, SMS 4, SNS 4,
DeSUS 4, other 2

note:  the National Council or Drzavni Svet is an advisory body with
limited legislative powers; it may propose laws and ask to review
any National Assembly decisions; in the election of NA November
1997, 40 members were elected to represent local, professional, and
socioeconomic interests (next election to be held in the fall of
2002)

Judicial branch: Supreme Court (judges are elected by the National
Assembly on the recommendation of the Judicial Council);
Constitutional Court (judges elected for nine-year terms by the
National Assembly and nominated by the president)

Political parties and leaders: Democratic Party of Retired (Persons)
of Slovenia or DeSUS [Janko KUSAR]; Liberal Democratic or LDS [Janez
DRNOVSEK, chairman]; New Slovenia or NSI [Andrej BAJUK, chairman];
Slovene National Party or SNS [Zmago JELINCIC, chairman]; Slovene
People's Party or SLS (Slovenian People's Party or SLS and Slovenian
Christian Democrats or SKD merged in April 2000) [Franc ZAGOZEN,
chairman]; Slovene Youth Party or SMS [leader NA]; Social Democratic
Party of Slovenia or SDS [Janez JANSA, chairman]; United List of
Social Democrats (former Communists and allies) or ZLSD [Borut
PAHOR, chairman]

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: ABEDA, ACCT (observer),
BIS, CCC, CE, CEI, EAPC, EBRD, ECE, EU (applicant), FAO, IADB, IAEA,
IBRD, ICAO, ICRM, IDA, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Intelsat
(nonsignatory user), Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO, ITU, NAM (guest), NSG,
OPCW, OSCE, PFP, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNFICYP, UNIDO, UNTAET, UNTSO,
UPU, WEU (associate partner), WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Davorin KRACUN

chancery:  1525 New Hampshire Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20036

telephone:  [1] (202) 667-5363

FAX:  [1] (202) 667-4563

consulate(s) general:  New York

consulate(s):  Cleveland

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Nancy ELY-RAPHEL

embassy:  Presernova 31, SI-1000 Ljubljana

mailing address:  P. O. Box 254, Presernova 31, 1000 Ljubljana;
American Embassy Ljubljana, Department of State, Washington, DC
20521-7140

telephone:  [386] (01) 200-5500

FAX:  [386] (01) 200-5555

Flag description: three equal horizontal bands of white (top), blue,
and red, with the Slovenian seal (a shield with the image of
Triglav, Slovenia's highest peak, in white against a blue background
at the center; beneath it are two wavy blue lines depicting seas and
rivers, and above it are three six-pointed stars arranged in an
inverted triangle which are taken from the coat of arms of the
Counts of Celje, the great Slovene dynastic house of the late 14th
and early 15th centuries); the seal is located in the upper hoist
side of the flag centered in the white and blue bands



Slovenia    Economy

Economy - overview: Although Slovenia enjoys one of the highest GDPs
per capita among the transition economies of Central Europe, it
needs to speed up the privatization process and the dismantling of
restrictions on foreign investment. About 45% of the economy remains
in state hands, and the level of foreign direct investment inflows
as a percent of GDP is the lowest in the region. Analysts are
predicting between 4.0% and 4.2% growth for 2001. Export growth is
expected to slow in 2001 and 2002 as EU markets soften. Inflation
rose from 6.1% to 8.9% in 2000 and remains a matter of concern.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $22.9 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 4.5% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $12,000 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  4%

industry:  35%

services:  61% (1999 est.)

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:
3.2%

highest 10%:  20.7% (1995)

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 8.9% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 857,400

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture NA%, industry NA%, services
NA%

Unemployment rate: 7.1% (1997 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $8.11 billion

expenditures:  $8.32 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
(1997 est.)

Industries: ferrous metallurgy and rolling mill products, aluminum
reduction and rolled products, lead and zinc smelting, electronics
(including military electronics), trucks, electric power equipment,
wood products, textiles, chemicals, machine tools

Industrial production growth rate: 6.2% (2000)

Electricity - production: 12.451 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  34.44%

hydro:  29.58%

nuclear:  35.98%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 10.024 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 2.2 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 645 million kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: potatoes, hops, wheat, sugar beets, corn,
grapes; cattle, sheep, poultry

Exports: $8.9 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Exports - commodities: manufactured goods, machinery and transport
equipment, chemicals, food

Exports - partners: Germany 31%, Italy 14%, Croatia 8%, Austria 7%,
France 6% (1999)

Imports: $9.9 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Imports - commodities: machinery and transport equipment,
manufactured goods, chemicals, fuels and lubricants, food

Imports - partners: Germany 21%, Italy 17%, France 11%, Austria 8%,
Croatia 4%, Hungary, Russia (1999)

Debt - external: $6.2 billion (2000)

Economic aid - recipient: ODA, $5 million (1993)

Currency: tolar (SIT)

Currency code: SIT

Exchange rates: tolars per US dollar - 225.93 (January 2001), 222.66
(2000), 181.77 (1999), 166.13 (1998), 159.69 (1997), 135.36 (1996)

Fiscal year: calendar year



Slovenia    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 722,000 (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 1 million (2000)

Telephone system: general assessment:  NA

domestic:  100% digital (2000)

international:  NA

Radio broadcast stations: AM 17, FM 160, shortwave 0 (1998)

Radios: 805,000 (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 48 (2001)

Televisions: 710,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .si

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 11 (2000)

Internet users: 460,000 (1999)



Slovenia    Transportation

Railways: total:  1,201 km

standard gauge:  1,201 km 1.435-m gauge (489 km electrified) (1999)

Highways: total:  19,586 km

paved:  17,745 km (including 249 km of expressways)

unpaved:  1,841 km (1998 est.)

Waterways: NA

Pipelines: crude oil 290 km; natural gas 305 km

Ports and harbors: Izola, Koper, Piran

Airports: 14 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  6

over 3,047 m:  1

2,438 to 3,047 m:  1

1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

914 to 1,523 m:  2

under 914 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  8

1,524 to 2,437 m:  2

914 to 1,523 m:  2

under 914 m:  4 (2000 est.)



Slovenia    Military

Military branches: Slovenian Army (includes Air and Naval Forces)

Military manpower - military age: 19 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  523,336 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
416,237 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  14,513
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $370 million (FY00)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 1.7% (FY00)



Slovenia    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: progress with Croatia on discussions of
adjustments to land boundary, but problems remain in defining
maritime boundary in Gulf of Piran; Austria has minor dispute with
Slovenia over nuclear power plants and post-World War II treatment
of German-speaking minorities

Illicit drugs: minor transit point for cocaine and Southwest Asian
heroin bound for Western Europe, and for precursor chemicals

======================================================================

@Solomon Islands




Solomon Islands    Introduction

Background: The UK established a protectorate over the Solomon
Islands in the 1890s. Some of the bitterest fighting of World War II
occurred on these islands. Self-government was achieved in 1976 and
independence two years later. Current issues include government
deficits, deforestation, and malaria control.



Solomon Islands    Geography

Location: Oceania, group of islands in the South Pacific Ocean, east
of Papua New Guinea

Geographic coordinates: 8 00 S, 159 00 E

Map references: Oceania

Area: total:  28,450 sq km

land:  27,540 sq km

water:  910 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly smaller than Maryland

Land boundaries: 0 km

Coastline: 5,313 km

Maritime claims: measured from claimed archipelagic baselines

continental shelf:  200 NM

exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: tropical monsoon; few extremes of temperature and weather

Terrain: mostly rugged mountains with some low coral atolls

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Pacific Ocean 0 m

highest point:  Mount Makarakomburu 2,447 m

Natural resources: fish, forests, gold, bauxite, phosphates, lead,
zinc, nickel

Land use: arable land:  1%

permanent crops:  1%

permanent pastures:  1%

forests and woodland:  88%

other:  9% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: NA sq km

Natural hazards: typhoons, but they are rarely destructive;
geologically active region with frequent earth tremors; volcanic
activity

Environment - current issues: deforestation; soil erosion; much of
the surrounding coral reefs are dead or dying

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Desertification, Environmental Modification, Law of
the Sea, Marine Dumping, Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer
Protection, Whaling

signed, but not ratified:  Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol



Solomon Islands    People

Population: 480,442 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  43.79% (male 107,229; female 103,162)

15-64 years:  53.15% (male 129,315; female 126,021)

65 years and over:  3.06% (male 7,190; female 7,525) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 2.98% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 34.05 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 4.27 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1.03 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.96 male(s)/female

total population:  1.03 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 24.47 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  71.55 years

male:  69.12 years

female:  74.1 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 4.65 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: NA%

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: NA

HIV/AIDS - deaths: NA

Nationality: noun:  Solomon Islander(s)

adjective:  Solomon Islander

Ethnic groups: Melanesian 93%, Polynesian 4%, Micronesian 1.5%,
European 0.8%, Chinese 0.3%, other 0.4%

Religions: Anglican 34%, Roman Catholic 19%, Baptist 17%, United
(Methodist/Presbyterian) 11%, Seventh-Day Adventist 10%, other
Protestant 5%, indigenous beliefs 4%

Languages: Melanesian pidgin in much of the country is lingua
franca, English spoken by 1%-2% of population

note:  120 indigenous languages

Literacy: definition:  NA

total population:  NA%

male:  NA%

female:  NA%



Solomon Islands    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  none

conventional short form:  Solomon Islands

former:  British Solomon Islands

Government type: parliamentary democracy

Capital: Honiara

Administrative divisions: 7 provinces and 1 town*; Central,
Guadalcanal, Honiara*, Isabel, Makira, Malaita, Temotu, Western;
note - there may be two new provinces of Choiseul (Lauru) and
Rennell/Bellona and the administrative unit of Honiara may have been
abolished

Independence: 7 July 1978 (from UK)

National holiday: Independence Day, 7 July (1978)

Constitution: 7 July 1978

Legal system: English common law

Suffrage: 21 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6
February 1952), represented by Governor General Father John LAPLI
(since NA 1999)

head of government:  Prime Minister Mannaseh Damukana SOGAVARE
(since 1 July 2000); Assistant Prime Minister Nathaniel WAENA (since
1 July 2000); Deputy Prime Minister Allan KEMAKEZA (since 1 July
2000); note - Prime Minister Bartholomew ULUFA'ALU was forced to
resign his position in June 2000 following the armed takeover of the
capital by elements supporting the opposition parties; Mannaseh
Damukana SOGAVARE, who had been opposition leader, was then elected
prime minister at a sitting of National Parliament on 30 June 2000

cabinet:  Cabinet appointed by the governor general on the advice of
the prime minister from among the members of Parliament

elections:  none; the monarch is hereditary; governor general
appointed by the monarch on the advice of Parliament for up to five
years; following legislative elections, the leader of the majority
party or the leader of a majority coalition is usually elected prime
minister by Parliament; deputy prime minister appointed by the
governor general on the advice of the prime minister from among the
members of Parliament

Legislative branch: unicameral National Parliament (50 seats;
members elected from single member constituencies by popular vote to
serve four-year terms)

elections:  last held 6 August 1997 (next to be held by August 2001)

election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
GNUR 21, PAP 7, NAPSI 5, SILP 4, UP 4, independents 6, other 3

Judicial branch: Court of Appeal

Political parties and leaders: there are two main coalitions -
Coalition for National Unity, Reconciliation, and Peace or CNURP and
Alliance for Change; the CNURP took power on 30 June 2000, it
comprises members of the Liberal Party, People's Alliance Party, and
the United Party, as well as a number of independents; the Alliance
for Change, represents the former government and now is the
opposition; in general, Solomon Islands politics is characterized by
fluid coalitions; Group for National Unity and Reconciliation or
GNUR [leader NA]; Liberal Party [Bartholomew ULUFA'ALU]; National
Action Party of Solomon Islands or NAPSI [Francis SAEMALA]; People's
Alliance Party or PAP [George LEPPING]; People's Progressive Party
[Mannaseh Damukana SOGAVARE]; Solomon Islands Labor Party or SILP
[Joses TUHANUKU]; United Party or UP [leader NA]

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: ACP, AsDB, C, ESCAP, FAO,
G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO,
Intelsat (nonsignatory user), IOC, ITU, Sparteca, SPC, SPF, UN,
UNCTAD, UNESCO, UPU, WFTU, WHO, WMO, WTrO

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
(vacant); Charge d'Affaires ad interim Jeremiah MANELE

chancery:  800 Second Avenue, Suite 400L, New York, NY 10017

telephone:  [1] (212) 599-6192, 6193

FAX:  [1] (212) 661-8925

Diplomatic representation from the US: the US does not have an
embassy in Solomon Islands (embassy closed July 1993); the
ambassador to Papua New Guinea is accredited to the Solomon Islands

Flag description: divided diagonally by a thin yellow stripe from
the lower hoist-side corner; the upper triangle (hoist side) is blue
with five white five-pointed stars arranged in an X pattern; the
lower triangle is green



Solomon Islands    Economy

Economy - overview: The bulk of the population depends on
agriculture, fishing, and forestry for at least part of their
livelihood. Most manufactured goods and petroleum products must be
imported. The islands are rich in undeveloped mineral resources such
as lead, zinc, nickel, and gold. However, severe ethnic violence,
the closing of key business enterprises, and an empty government
treasury have led to a continuing economic downslide. Deliveries of
crucial fuel supplies (including those for electrical generation) by
tankers have become sporadic due to the government's inability to
pay and attacks against ships. Telecommunications are threatened by
the lack of technical and maintenance staff many of whom have left
the country.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $900 million (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 1% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $2,000 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  50%

industry:  3.5%

services:  46.5% (1995)

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 10% (1999 est.)

Labor force: 26,842

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture NA%, industry NA%, services
NA%

Unemployment rate: NA%

Budget: revenues:  $147 million

expenditures:  $168 million, including capital expenditures of $NA
(1997 est.)

Industries: fish (tuna), mining, timber

Industrial production growth rate: NA%

Electricity - production: 30 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  100%

hydro:  0%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 27.9 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: cocoa, beans, coconuts, palm kernels, rice,
potatoes, vegetables, fruit; cattle, pigs; timber; fish

Exports: $165 million (f.o.b., 1999 est.)

Exports - commodities: timber, fish, palm oil, cocoa, copra

Exports - partners: Japan 35.5%, other Asian countries 47.3% (1999)

Imports: $152 million (f.o.b., 1999 est.)

Imports - commodities: plant and equipment, manufactured goods, food
and live animals, fuels, chemicals

Imports - partners: Australia 38.5%, Singapore 15%, Japan 10.6%, NZ
6.2% (1999)

Debt - external: $152.4 million (1998)

Economic aid - recipient: $47 million (1999 est.), mainly from
Japan, Australia, China, and NZ

Currency: Solomon Islands dollar (SBD)

Currency code: SBD

Exchange rates: Solomon Islands dollars per US dollar - 5.0968
(November 2000), 5.0864 (2000), 4.8381 (1999), 4.8156 (1998), 3.7169
(1997), 3.5664 (1996)

Fiscal year: calendar year



Solomon Islands    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 8,000 (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 658 (1997)

Telephone system: general assessment:  NA

domestic:  NA

international:  satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (Pacific Ocean)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 3, FM 0, shortwave 0 (1998)

Radios: 57,000 (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 0 (1997)

Televisions: 3,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .sb

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 1 (2000)

Internet users: 3,000 (2000)



Solomon Islands    Transportation

Railways: 0 km

Highways: total:  1,360 km

paved:  34 km

unpaved:  1,326 km (includes about 800 km of private plantation
roads) (1996 est.)

Waterways: none

Ports and harbors: Aola Bay, Honiara, Lofung, Noro, Viru Harbor,
Yandina

Merchant marine: none (2000 est.)

Airports: 31 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  2

1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

914 to 1,523 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  29

1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

914 to 1,523 m:  10

under 914 m:  18 (2000 est.)



Solomon Islands    Military

Military branches: no regular military forces; Solomon Islands
National Reconnaissance and Surveillance Force; Royal Solomon
Islands Police (RSIP)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $NA

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: NA%



Solomon Islands    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

======================================================================

@Somalia




Somalia    Introduction

Background: A SIAD BARRE regime was ousted in January 1991; turmoil,
factional fighting, and anarchy followed for nine years. In May of
1991, northern clans declared an independent Republic of Somaliland
which now includes the administrative regions of Awdal, Woqooyi
Galbeed, Togdheer, Sanaag, and Sool. Although not recognized by any
government, this entity has maintained a stable existence, aided by
the overwhelming dominance of the ruling clan and economic
infrastructure left behind by British, Russian, and American
military assistance programs. The regions of Bari and Nugaal
comprise a neighboring self-declared Republic of Puntland, which has
also made strides towards reconstructing legitimate, representative
government. Beginning in 1993, a two-year UN humanitarian effort
(primarily in the south) was able to alleviate famine conditions,
but when the UN withdrew in 1995, having suffered significant
casualties, order still had not been restored. A Transitional
National Government (TNG) was created in October 2000 in Arta,
Djibouti which was attended by a broad representation of Somali
clans. The TNG has a three-year mandate to create a permanent
national Somali government. The TNG does not recognize Somaliland or
Puntland as independent republics but so far has been unable to
reunite them with the unstable regions in the south; numerous
warlords and factions are still fighting for control of Mogadishu
and the other southern regions.



Somalia    Geography

Location: Eastern Africa, bordering the Gulf of Aden and the Indian
Ocean, east of Ethiopia

Geographic coordinates: 10 00 N, 49 00 E

Map references: Africa

Area: total:  637,657 sq km

land:  627,337 sq km

water:  10,320 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly smaller than Texas

Land boundaries: total:  2,366 km

border countries:  Djibouti 58 km, Ethiopia 1,626 km, Kenya 682 km

Coastline: 3,025 km

Maritime claims: territorial sea:  200 NM

Climate: principally desert; December to February - northeast
monsoon, moderate temperatures in north and very hot in south; May
to October - southwest monsoon, torrid in the north and hot in the
south, irregular rainfall, hot and humid periods (tangambili)
between monsoons

Terrain: mostly flat to undulating plateau rising to hills in north

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Indian Ocean 0 m

highest point:  Shimbiris 2,416 m

Natural resources: uranium and largely unexploited reserves of iron
ore, tin, gypsum, bauxite, copper, salt

Land use: arable land:  2%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  69%

forests and woodland:  26%

other:  3% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 1,800 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: recurring droughts; frequent dust storms over
eastern plains in summer; floods during rainy season

Environment - current issues: famine; use of contaminated water
contributes to human health problems; deforestation; overgrazing;
soil erosion; desertification

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Endangered
Species, Law of the Sea

signed, but not ratified:  Marine Dumping, Nuclear Test Ban

Geography - note: strategic location on Horn of Africa along
southern approaches to Bab el Mandeb and route through Red Sea and
Suez Canal



Somalia    People

Population: 7,488,773

note:  this estimate was derived from an official census taken in
1975 by the Somali Government; population counting in Somalia is
complicated by the large number of nomads and by refugee movements
in response to famine and clan warfare (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  44.54% (male 1,670,320; female 1,665,329)

15-64 years:  52.69% (male 1,993,750; female 1,952,437)

65 years and over:  2.77% (male 91,511; female 115,426) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 3.48% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 47.23 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 18.35 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 5.96 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.03 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1.02 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.79 male(s)/female

total population:  1.01 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 123.97 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  46.6 years

male:  44.99 years

female:  48.25 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 7.11 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: NA%

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: NA

HIV/AIDS - deaths: NA

Nationality: noun:  Somali(s)

adjective:  Somali

Ethnic groups: Somali 85%, Bantu, Arabs 30,000

Religions: Sunni Muslim

Languages: Somali (official), Arabic, Italian, English

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  24%

male:  36%

female:  14% (1990 est.)



Somalia    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  none

conventional short form:  Somalia

former:  Somali Republic, Somali Democratic Republic

Government type: parliamentary

Capital: Mogadishu

Administrative divisions: 18 regions (plural - NA, singular -
gobolka); Awdal, Bakool, Banaadir, Bari, Bay, Galguduud, Gedo,
Hiiraan, Jubbada Dhexe, Jubbada Hoose, Mudug, Nugaal, Sanaag,
Shabeellaha Dhexe, Shabeellaha Hoose, Sool, Togdheer, Woqooyi Galbeed

Independence: 1 July 1960 (from a merger of British Somaliland,
which became independent from the UK on 26 June 1960, and Italian
Somaliland, which became independent from the Italian-administered
UN trusteeship on 1 July 1960, to form the Somali Republic)

National holiday: Foundation of the Somali Republic, 1 July (1960)

Constitution: 25 August 1979, presidential approval 23 September 1979

note:  the Transitional National Government formed in October 2000
has a mandate to create a new constitution and hold elections within
three years

Legal system: NA

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  ABDIKASSIM Salad Hassan (since 26
August 2000); note - Interim President ABDIKASSIM was chosen for a
three-year term by a 245-member National Assembly serving as a
transitional government; the present political situation is still
unstable, particularly in the south, with interclan fighting and
random banditry

head of government:  ALI Khalifa Galaydh, appointed by the president
8 October 2000

cabinet:  appointed by the prime minister and sworn in on 20 October
2000

election results:  ABDIKASSIM Salad Hassan was elected president of
an interim government at the Djibouti-sponsored Arta Peace
Conference on 26 August 2000 by a broad representation of Somali
clans that comprised a transitional National Assembly.

Legislative branch: unicameral People's Assembly or Golaha Shacbiga

note:  fledgling parliament; a transitional 245-member National
Assembly began to meet on 13 August 2000 in the town of Arta,
Djibouti and is now based in Mogadishu

Judicial branch: following the breakdown of national government,
most regions have reverted to Islamic (Shari'a) law with a provision
for appeal of all sentences

Political parties and leaders: none

Political pressure groups and leaders: numerous clan and subclan
factions are currently vying for power

International organization participation: ACP, AfDB, AFESD, AL, AMF,
CAEU, ECA, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS,
ILO, IMF, IMO, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM (observer), ITU, NAM,
OAU, OIC, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UPU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO,
WMO, WTrO (observer)

Diplomatic representation in the US: Somalia does not have an
embassy in the US (ceased operations on 8 May 1991)

Diplomatic representation from the US: the US does not have an
embassy in Somalia; US interests are represented by the US Embassy
in Nairobi at Moi Avenue and Haile Selassie Avenue; mail address: P.
O. Box 30137, Unit 64100, Nairobi; APO AE 09831; telephone: [254]
(2) 334141; FAX [254] (2) 340838

Flag description: light blue with a large white five-pointed star in
the center; design based on the flag of the UN (Italian Somaliland
was a UN trust territory)

Government - note: An interim Transitional National Government -
with a president, prime minister, and 245-member National Assembly -
was formed in October 2000. However, other governing bodies continue
to exist and control various cities and regions of the country,
including Somaliland, Puntland, and traditional clan and faction
strongholds.



Somalia    Economy

Economy - overview: One of the world's poorest and least developed
countries, Somalia has few resources. Moreover, much of the economy
has been devastated by the civil war. Agriculture is the most
important sector, with livestock accounting for about 40% of GDP and
about 65% of export earnings. Nomads and semi-nomads, who are
dependent upon livestock for their livelihood, make up a large
portion of the population. Livestock and bananas are the principal
exports; sugar, sorghum, corn, fish, and qat are products for the
domestic market. The small industrial sector, based on the
processing of agricultural products, accounts for 10% of GDP; most
facilities have been shut down because of the civil strife.
Moreover, ongoing civil disturbances in Mogadishu and outlying areas
have interfered with any substantial economic advance and with
international aid arrangements. Due to the civil strife, economic
data is susceptible to an exceptionally wide margin of error.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $4.3 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: NA%

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $600 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  60%

industry:  10% (largely shut down in 2000)

services:  30% (2000 est.)

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): over 100% (businesses print their
own money) (2000 est.)

Labor force: 3.7 million (very few are skilled laborers) (1993 est.)

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture (mostly pastoral nomadism)
71%, industry and services 29%

Unemployment rate: NA%

Budget: revenues:  $NA

expenditures:  $NA, including capital expenditures of $NA

Industries: a few small industries, including sugar refining,
textiles, petroleum refining (mostly shut down), wireless
communication

Industrial production growth rate: NA%

Electricity - production: 260 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  100%

hydro:  0%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 241.8 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: cattle, sheep, goats; bananas, sorghum,
corn, sugarcane, mangoes, sesame seeds, beans; fish

Exports: $186 million (f.o.b., 1999 est.)

Exports - commodities: livestock, bananas, hides, fish (1999)

Exports - partners: Saudi Arabia 53%, Yemen 19%, UAE 14%, Italy 5%,
Pakistan 2% (1999)

Imports: $314 million (f.o.b., 1999 est.)

Imports - commodities: manufactures, petroleum products, foodstuffs,
construction materials (1995)

Imports - partners: Djibouti 24%, Kenya 14%, Brazil 13%, Saudi
Arabia 10%, India 9% (1999)

Debt - external: $2.6 billion (1999 est.)

Economic aid - recipient: $191.5 million (1995)

Currency: Somali shilling (SOS)

Currency code: SOS

Exchange rates: Somali shillings per US dollar - 11,000 (November
2000), 2,620 (January 1999), 7,500 (November 1997 est.), 7,000
(January 1996 est.), 5,000 (1 January 1995), 2,616 (1 July 1993)

note:  the Republic of Somaliland, a self-declared independent
country not recognized by any foreign government, issues its own
currency, the Somaliland shilling

Fiscal year: NA



Somalia    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: NA

Telephones - mobile cellular: NA

Telephone system: general assessment:  the public telecommunications
system was completely destroyed or dismantled by the civil war
factions; all relief organizations depend on their own private
systems

domestic:  recently, local cellular telephone systems have been
established in Mogadishu and in several other population centers

international:  international connections are available from
Mogadishu by satellite

Radio broadcast stations: AM 0, FM 0, shortwave 4 (1988)

Radios: 470,000 (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 1 (1997)

Televisions: 135,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .so

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 1 (2000)

Internet users: 200 (2000)



Somalia    Transportation

Railways: 0 km

Highways: total:  22,100 km

paved:  2,608 km

unpaved:  19,492 km (1996)

Waterways: none

Pipelines: crude oil 15 km

Ports and harbors: Bender Cassim (Boosaaso), Berbera, Chisimayu
(Kismaayo), Merca, Mogadishu

Merchant marine: none (2000 est.)

Airports: 62 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  5

over 3,047 m:  4

1,524 to 2,437 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  57

2,438 to 3,047 m:  4

1,524 to 2,437 m:  13

914 to 1,523 m:  29

under 914 m:  11 (2000 est.)



Somalia    Military

Military branches: A Somali National Army is being reformed under
the interim government; numerous factions and clans maintain
independent militias, and the Somaliland and Puntland regional
governments maintain their own security and police forces

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  1,825,302 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
1,011,400 (2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $NA

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: NA%



Somalia    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: most of the southern half of the boundary
with Ethiopia is a Provisional Administrative Line; territorial
dispute with Ethiopia over the Ogaden

======================================================================

@South Africa




South Africa    Introduction

Background: After the British seized the Cape of Good Hope area in
1806, many of the Dutch settlers (the Boers) trekked north to found
their own republics. The discovery of diamonds (1867) and gold
(1886) spurred wealth and immigration and intensified the
subjugation of the native inhabitants. The Boers resisted British
encroachments, but were defeated in the Boer War (1899-1902). The
resulting Union of South Africa operated under a policy of apartheid
- the separate development of the races. The 1990s brought an end to
apartheid politically and ushered in black majority rule.



South Africa    Geography

Location: Southern Africa, at the southern tip of the continent of
Africa

Geographic coordinates: 29 00 S, 24 00 E

Map references: Africa

Area: total:  1,219,912 sq km

land:  1,219,912 sq km

water:  0 sq km

note:  includes Prince Edward Islands (Marion Island and Prince
Edward Island)

Area - comparative: slightly less than twice the size of Texas

Land boundaries: total:  4,750 km

border countries:  Botswana 1,840 km, Lesotho 909 km, Mozambique 491
km, Namibia 855 km, Swaziland 430 km, Zimbabwe 225 km

Coastline: 2,798 km

Maritime claims: contiguous zone:  24 NM

continental shelf:  200-m depth or to the depth of exploitation

exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: mostly semiarid; subtropical along east coast; sunny days,
cool nights

Terrain: vast interior plateau rimmed by rugged hills and narrow
coastal plain

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Atlantic Ocean 0 m

highest point:  Njesuthi 3,408 m

Natural resources: gold, chromium, antimony, coal, iron ore,
manganese, nickel, phosphates, tin, uranium, gem diamonds, platinum,
copper, vanadium, salt, natural gas

Land use: arable land:  10%

permanent crops:  1%

permanent pastures:  67%

forests and woodland:  7%

other:  15% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 12,700 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: prolonged droughts

Environment - current issues: lack of important arterial rivers or
lakes requires extensive water conservation and control measures;
growth in water usage threatens to outpace supply; pollution of
rivers from agricultural runoff and urban discharge; air pollution
resulting in acid rain; soil erosion; desertification

Environment - international agreements: party to:
Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic-Marine Living Resources,
Antarctic Seals, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change,
Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the
Sea, Marine Dumping, Marine Life Conservation, Nuclear Test Ban,
Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands, Whaling

signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Geography - note: South Africa completely surrounds Lesotho and
almost completely surrounds Swaziland



South Africa    People

Population: 43,586,097

note:  South Africa took a census October 1996 which showed a
population of 40,583,611 (after an official adjustment for a 6.8%
underenumeration based on a postenumeration survey); estimates for
this country explicitly take into account the effects of excess
mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower life expectancy,
higher infant mortality and death rates, lower population and growth
rates, and changes in the distribution of population by age and sex
than would otherwise be expected (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  32.01% (male 7,023,639; female 6,928,559)

15-64 years:  63.11% (male 13,264,654; female 14,244,484)

65 years and over:  4.88% (male 798,914; female 1,325,847) (2001
est.)

Population growth rate: 0.26% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 21.12 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 16.77 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: -1.73 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.02 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.01 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  0.93 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.6 male(s)/female

total population:  0.94 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 60.33 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  48.09 years

male:  47.64 years

female:  48.56 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 2.43 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 19.94% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 4.2 million (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: 250,000 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  South African(s)

adjective:  South African

Ethnic groups: black 75.2%, white 13.6%, Colored 8.6%, Indian 2.6%

Religions: Christian 68% (includes most whites and Coloreds, about
60% of blacks and about 40% of Indians), Muslim 2%, Hindu 1.5% (60%
of Indians), indigenous beliefs and animist 28.5%

Languages: 11 official languages, including Afrikaans, English,
Ndebele, Pedi, Sotho, Swazi, Tsonga, Tswana, Venda, Xhosa, Zulu

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  81.8%

male:  81.9%

female:  81.7% (1995 est.)



South Africa    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Republic of South Africa

conventional short form:  South Africa

former:  Union of South Africa

abbreviation:  RSA

Government type: republic

Capital: Pretoria; note - Cape Town is the legislative center and
Bloemfontein the judicial center

Administrative divisions: 9 provinces; Eastern Cape, Free State,
Gauteng, KwaZulu-Natal, Mpumalanga, North-West, Northern Cape,
Northern Province, Western Cape

Independence: 31 May 1910 (from UK)

National holiday: Freedom Day, 27 April (1994)

Constitution: 10 December 1996; this new constitution was certified
by the Constitutional Court on 4 December 1996, was signed by then
President MANDELA on 10 December 1996, and entered into effect on 3
February 1997; it is being implemented in phases

Legal system: based on Roman-Dutch law and English common law;
accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction, with reservations

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Thabo MBEKI (since 16
June 1999); Executive Deputy President Jacob ZUMA (since 17 June
1999); note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
government

head of government:  President Thabo MBEKI (since 16 June 1999);
Executive Deputy President Jacob ZUMA (since 17 June 1999); note -
the president is both the chief of state and head of government

cabinet:  Cabinet appointed by the president

elections:  president elected by the National Assembly for a
five-year term; election last held 2 June 1999 (next scheduled for
sometime between May and July 2004)

election results:  Thabo MBEKI elected president; percent of
National Assembly vote - 100% (by acclamation)

note:  ANC-IFP governing coalition

Legislative branch: bicameral parliament consisting of the National
Assembly (400 seats; members are elected by popular vote under a
system of proportional representation to serve five-year terms) and
the National Council of Provinces (90 seats, 10 members elected by
each of the nine provincial legislatures for five-year terms; has
special powers to protect regional interests, including the
safeguarding of cultural and linguistic traditions among ethnic
minorities); note - following the implementation of the new
constitution on 3 February 1997 the former Senate was disbanded and
replaced by the National Council of Provinces with essentially no
change in membership and party affiliations, although the new
institution's responsibilities have been changed somewhat by the new
constitution

elections:  National Assembly and National Council of Provinces -
last held 2 June 1999 (next to be held NA 2004)

election results:  National Assembly - percent of vote by party -
ANC 66.4%, DP 9.6%, IFP 8.6%, NP 6.9%, UDM 3.4%, ACDP 1.4%, FF 0.8%,
other 2.9%; seats by party - ANC 266, DP 38, IFP 34, NP 28, UDM 14,
ACDP 6, FF 3, other 11; National Council of Provinces - percent of
vote by party - NA%; seats by party - ANC 61, NP 17, FF 4, IFP 5, DP
3

Judicial branch: Constitutional Court; Supreme Court of Appeals;
High Courts; Magistrate Courts

Political parties and leaders: African Christian Democratic Party or
ACDP [Kenneth MESHOE, president]; African National Congress or ANC
[Thabo MBEKI, president]; Democratic Alliance (formed from the
merger of the Democratic Party or DP and the New National Party or
NP) [Anthony LEON, leader]; Freedom Front or FF [Constand VILJOEN,
president]; Inkatha Freedom Party or IFP [Mangosuthu BUTHELEZI,
president]; Pan-Africanist Congress or PAC [Stanley MOGOBA,
president]; United Democratic Movement or UDM [Bantu HOLOMISA]

Political pressure groups and leaders: Congress of South African
Trade Unions or COSATU [Zwelinzima VAVI, general secretary]; South
African Communist Party or SACP [Blade NZIMANDE, general secretary];
South African National Civics Organization or SANCO [Mlungisi
HLONGWANE, national president]; note - COSATU and SACP are in a
formal alliance with the ANC

International organization participation: ACP, AfDB, BIS, C, CCC,
ECA, FAO, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC,
IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM,
ISO, ITU, MONUC, NAM, NSG, OAU, OPCW, PCA, SACU, SADC, UN, UNCTAD,
UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNITAR, UNMEE, UPU, WCL, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO,
WToO, WTrO, ZC

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Makate Sheila SISULU

chancery:  3051 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone:  [1] (202) 232-4400

FAX:  [1] (202) 265-1607

consulate(s) general:  Chicago, Los Angeles, and New York

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Delano E. LEWIS, Sr.

embassy:  877 Pretorius Street, Pretoria

mailing address:  P. O. Box 9536, Pretoria 0001

telephone:  [27] (12) 342-1048

FAX:  [27] (12) 342-2244

consulate(s) general:  Cape Town, Durban, Johannesburg

Flag description: two equal width horizontal bands of red (top) and
blue separated by a central green band which splits into a
horizontal Y, the arms of which end at the corners of the hoist
side; the Y embraces a black isosceles triangle from which the arms
are separated by narrow yellow bands; the red and blue bands are
separated from the green band and its arms by narrow white stripes

note:  prior to 26 April 1994, the flag was actually four flags in
one - three miniature flags reproduced in the center of the white
band of the former flag of the Netherlands, which had three equal
horizontal bands of orange (top), white, and blue; the miniature
flags were a vertically hanging flag of the old Orange Free State
with a horizontal flag of the UK adjoining on the hoist side and a
horizontal flag of the old Transvaal Republic adjoining on the other
side



South Africa    Economy

Economy - overview: South Africa is a middle-income, developing
country with an abundant supply of resources, well-developed
financial, legal, communications, energy, and transport sectors, a
stock exchange that ranks among the 10 largest in the world, and a
modern infrastructure supporting an efficient distribution of goods
to major urban centers throughout the region. However, growth has
not been strong enough to cut into the 30% unemployment, and
daunting economic problems remain from the apartheid era, especially
the problems of poverty and lack of economic empowerment among the
disadvantaged groups. Other problems are crime, corruption, and
HIV/AIDS. At the start of 2000, President MBEKI vowed to promote
economic growth and foreign investment, and to reduce poverty by
relaxing restrictive labor laws, stepping up the pace of
privatization, and cutting unneeded governmental spending.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $369 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 3% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $8,500 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  5%

industry:  30%

services:  65% (1999 est.)

Population below poverty line: 50% (2000 est.)

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:
1.1%

highest 10%:  45.9% (1994)

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 5.3% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 17 million economically active (2000)

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture 30%, industry 25%, services
45% (1999 est.)

Unemployment rate: 30% (2000 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $31.1 billion

expenditures:  $34.4 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
billion (FY01/02)

Industries: mining (world's largest producer of platinum, gold,
chromium), automobile assembly, metalworking, machinery, textile,
iron and steel, chemicals, fertilizer, foodstuffs

Industrial production growth rate: 2.4% (2000 est.)

Electricity - production: 186.903 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  92.74%

hydro:  0.39%

nuclear:  6.87%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 172.393 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 3.884 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 2.457 billion kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: corn, wheat, sugarcane, fruits, vegetables;
beef, poultry, mutton, wool, dairy products

Exports: $30.8 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Exports - commodities: gold, diamonds, other metals and minerals,
machinery and equipment

Exports - partners: UK, Italy, Japan, US, Germany

Imports: $27.6 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Imports - commodities: machinery, foodstuffs and equipment,
chemicals, petroleum products, scientific instruments

Imports - partners: Germany, US, UK, Japan

Debt - external: $25.6 billion (2000 est.)

Economic aid - recipient: $676.3 million

Currency: rand (ZAR)

Currency code: ZAR

Exchange rates: rand per US dollar - 7.60 (March 2001), 6.93983
(2000), 6.10948 (1999), 5.52828 (1998), 4.60796 (1997), 4.29935
(1996)

Fiscal year: 1 April - 31 March



South Africa    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 5.075 million (1999)

Telephones - mobile cellular: over 2,000,000 (1999)

Telephone system: general assessment:  the system is the best
developed and most modern in Africa

domestic:  consists of carrier-equipped open-wire lines, coaxial
cables, microwave radio relay links, fiber-optic cable,
radiotelephone communication stations, and wireless local loops; key
centers are Bloemfontein, Cape Town, Durban, Johannesburg, Port
Elizabeth, and Pretoria

international:  2 submarine cables; satellite earth stations - 3
Intelsat (1 Indian Ocean and 2 Atlantic Ocean)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 14, FM 347 (plus 243 repeaters),
shortwave 1 (1998)

Radios: 13.75 million (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 556 (plus 144 network repeaters)
(1997)

Televisions: 5.2 million (1997)

Internet country code: .za

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 44 (2000)

Internet users: 1.82 million (2000)



South Africa    Transportation

Railways: total:  21,431 km

narrow gauge:  20,995 km 1.067-m gauge (9,087 km electrified); 436
km 0.610-m gauge (1995)

Highways: total:  358,596 km

paved:  59,753 km (including 1927 km of expressways)

unpaved:  298,843 km (1996)

Waterways: NA

Pipelines: crude oil 931 km; petroleum products 1,748 km; natural
gas 322 km

Ports and harbors: Cape Town, Durban, East London, Mosselbaai, Port
Elizabeth, Richards Bay, Saldanha

Merchant marine: total:  8 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
271,650 GRT/268,604 DWT

ships by type:  container 6, petroleum tanker 2 (2000 est.)

Airports: 741 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  142

over 3,047 m:  9

2,438 to 3,047 m:  5

1,524 to 2,437 m:  47

914 to 1,523 m:  71

under 914 m:  10 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  599

1,524 to 2,437 m:  33

914 to 1,523 m:  304

under 914 m:  262 (2000 est.)



South Africa    Military

Military branches: South African National Defense Force or SANDF
(includes Army, Navy, Air Force, and Medical Services), South
African Police Service or SAPS

Military manpower - military age: 18 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  11,469,812 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
6,977,328 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  466,399
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $2 billion (FY00/01)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 1.5% (FY99/00)

Military - note: the National Defense Force continues to integrate
former military, black homelands forces, and ex-opposition forces



South Africa    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: Swaziland has asked South Africa to open
negotiations on reincorporating some nearby South African
territories that are populated by ethnic Swazis or that were long
ago part of the Swazi Kingdom

Illicit drugs: transshipment center for heroin, hashish, marijuana,
and possibly cocaine; cocaine consumption on the rise; world's
largest market for illicit methaqualone, usually imported illegally
from India through various east African countries; illicit
cultivation of marijuana

======================================================================

@Southern Ocean

Southern Ocean    Introduction Top of Page

Background: A decision by the International Hydrographic
Organization in the spring of 2000 delimited a fifth world ocean -
the Southern Ocean - from the southern portions of the Atlantic
Ocean, Indian Ocean, and Pacific Ocean. The Southern Ocean extends
from the coast of Antarctica north to 60 degrees south latitude
which coincides with the Antarctic Treaty Limit. The Southern Ocean
is now the fourth largest of the world's five oceans (after the
Pacific Ocean, Atlantic Ocean, and Indian Ocean, but larger than the
Arctic Ocean).



Southern Ocean    Geography

Location: body of water between 60 degrees south latitude and
Antarctica

Geographic coordinates: 65 00 S, 0 00 E (nominally), but the
Southern Ocean has the unique distinction of being a large
circumpolar body of water totally encircling the continent of
Antarctica; this ring of water lies between 60 degrees south
latitude and the coast of Antarctica, and encompasses 360 degrees of
longitude

Map references: Antarctic Region

Area: total:  20.327 million sq km

note:  includes Amundsen Sea, Bellingshausen Sea, part of the Drake
Passage, Ross Sea, a small part of the Scotia Sea, Weddell Sea, and
other tributary water bodies

Area - comparative: slightly more than twice the size of the US

Coastline: 17,968 km

Climate: sea temperatures vary from about 10 degrees Celsius to -2
degrees Celsius; cyclonic storms travel eastward around the
continent and frequently are intense because of the temperature
contrast between ice and open ocean; the ocean area from about
latitude 40 south to the Antarctic Circle has the strongest average
winds found anywhere on Earth; in winter the ocean freezes outward
to 65 degrees south latitude in the Pacific sector and 55 degrees
south latitude in the Atlantic sector, lowering surface temperatures
well below 0 degrees Celsius; at some coastal points intense
persistent drainage winds from the interior keep the shoreline
ice-free throughout the winter

Terrain: the Southern Ocean is deep, 4,000 to 5,000 meters over most
of its extent with only limited areas of shallow water; the
Antarctic continental shelf is generally narrow and unusually deep -
its edge lying at depths of 400 to 800 meters (the global mean is
133 meters); the Antarctic icepack grows from an average minimum of
2.6 million square kilometers in March to about 18.8 million square
kilometers in September, better than a sixfold increase in area; the
Antarctic Circumpolar Current (21,000 km in length) moves
perpetually eastward; it is the world's largest ocean current,
transporting 130 million cubic meters of water per second - 100
times the flow of all the world's rivers

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  -7,235 m at the southern end of
the South Sandwich Trench

highest point:  sea level 0 m

Natural resources: probable large and possible giant oil and gas
fields on the continental margin, manganese nodules, possible placer
deposits, sand and gravel, fresh water as icebergs, squid, whales,
and seals - none exploited; krill, fishes

Natural hazards: huge icebergs with drafts up to several hundred
meters; smaller bergs and iceberg fragments; sea ice (generally 0.5
to 1 meter thick) with sometimes dynamic short-term variations and
with large annual and interannual variations; deep continental shelf
floored by glacial deposits varying widely over short distances;
high winds and large waves much of the year; ship icing, especially
May-October; most of region is remote from sources of search and
rescue

Environment - current issues: increased solar ultraviolet radiation
resulting from the Antarctic ozone hole in recent years, reducing
marine primary productivity (phytoplankton) by as much as 15% and
damaging the DNA of some fish; illegal, unreported, and unregulated
fishing in recent years, especially the landing of an estimated five
to six times more Patagonian toothfish than the regulated fishery,
which is likely to affect the sustainability of the stock; large
amount of incidental mortality of seabirds resulting from long-line
fishing for toothfish

note:  the now-protected fur seal population is making a strong
comeback after severe overexploitation in the 18th and 19th centuries

Environment - international agreements: the Southern Ocean is
subject to all international agreements regarding the world's
oceans; in addition, it is subject to these agreements specific to
the Antarctic region: International Whaling Commission (prohibits
commercial whaling south of 40 degrees south [south of 60 degrees
south between 50 degrees and 130 degrees west]); Convention on the
Conservation of Antarctic Seals (limits sealing); Convention on the
Conservation of Antarctic Marine Living Resources (regulates fishing)

note:  many nations (including the US) prohibit mineral resource
exploration and exploitation south of the fluctuating Polar Front
(Antarctic Convergence) which is in the middle of the Antarctic
Circumpolar Current and serves as the dividing line between the very
cold polar surface waters to the south and the warmer waters to the
north

Geography - note: the major chokepoint is the Drake Passage between
South America and Antarctica; the Polar Front (Antarctic
Convergence) is the best natural definition of the northern extent
of the Southern Ocean; it is a distinct region at the middle of the
Antarctic Circumpolar Current that separates the very cold polar
surface waters to the south from the warmer waters to the north; the
Front and the Current extend entirely around Antarctica, reaching
south of 60 degrees south near New Zealand and near 48 degrees south
in the far South Atlantic coinciding with the path of the maximum
westerly winds



Southern Ocean    Economy

Economy - overview: Fisheries in 1998-99 (1 July to 30 June) landed
119,898 metric tons, of which 85% was krill and 14% Patagonian
toothfish. International agreements were adopted in late 1999 to
reduce illegal, unreported, and unregulated fishing, which in the
1998-99 season landed five to six times more Patagonian toothfish
than the regulated fishery. In the 1999-2000 antarctic summer 13,193
tourists, most of them seaborne, visited the Southern Ocean and
Antarctica, compared to 10,013 the previous year. Nearly 16,000
tourists are expected during the 2000-01 season.



Southern Ocean    Transportation

Ports and harbors: McMurdo, Palmer, and offshore anchorages in
Antarctica

note:  few ports or harbors exist on the southern side of the
Southern Ocean; ice conditions limit use of most of them to short
periods in midsummer; even then some cannot be entered without
icebreaker escort; most antarctic ports are operated by government
research stations and, except in an emergency, are not open to
commercial or private vessels; vessels in any port south of 60
degrees south are subject to inspection by Antarctic Treaty observers

Transportation - note: Drake Passage offers alternative to transit
through the Panama Canal



Southern Ocean    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: Antarctic Treaty defers claims (see
Antarctic Treaty Summary in the Antarctica entry); sections (some
overlapping) claimed by Argentina, Australia, Chile, France, New
Zealand, Norway, and UK; the US and most other nations do not
recognize the maritime claims of other nations and have made no
claims themselves (the US and Russia have reserved the right to do
so); no formal claims have been made in the sector between 90
degrees west and 150 degrees west

======================================================================

@South Georgia and the South Sandwich




South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands    Introduction Top of
Page

Background: The islands lie approximately 1,000 km east of the
Falkland Islands. Grytviken, on South Georgia, was a 19th and early
20th century whaling station. The famed explorer Ernest SHACKLETON
stopped there in 1914 en route to his ill-fated attempt to cross
Antarctica on foot. He returned some 20 months later with a few
companions in a small boat and arranged a successful rescue for the
rest of his crew, stranded off the Antarctic Peninsula. He died in
1922 on a subsequent expedition and is buried in Grytviken. Today,
the station houses a small military garrison. The islands have large
bird and seal populations and, recognizing the importance of
preserving the marine stocks in adjacent waters, the UK, in 1993,
extended the exclusive fishing zone from 12 miles to 200 miles
around each island.



South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands    Geography

Location: Southern South America, islands in the South Atlantic
Ocean, east of the tip of South America

Geographic coordinates: 54 30 S, 37 00 W

Map references: Antarctic Region

Area: total:  3,903 sq km

land:  3,903 sq km

water:  0 sq km

note:  includes Shag Rocks, Black Rock, Clerke Rocks, South Georgia
Island, Bird Island, and the South Sandwich Islands, which consist
of some nine islands

Area - comparative: slightly larger than Rhode Island

Land boundaries: 0 km

Coastline: NA km

Maritime claims: exclusive fishing zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: variable, with mostly westerly winds throughout the year
interspersed with periods of calm; nearly all precipitation falls as
snow

Terrain: most of the islands, rising steeply from the sea, are
rugged and mountainous; South Georgia is largely barren and has
steep, glacier-covered mountains; the South Sandwich Islands are of
volcanic origin with some active volcanoes

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Atlantic Ocean 0 m

highest point:  Mount Paget (South Georgia) 2,934 m

Natural resources: fish

Land use: arable land:  0%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  0%

forests and woodland:  0%

other:  100% (largely covered by permanent ice and snow with some
sparse vegetation consisting of grass, moss, and lichen)

Irrigated land: 0 sq km (1993)

Natural hazards: the South Sandwich Islands have prevailing weather
conditions that generally make them difficult to approach by ship;
they are also subject to active volcanism

Environment - current issues: NA

Geography - note: the north coast of South Georgia has several large
bays, which provide good anchorage; reindeer, introduced early in
this century, live on South Georgia



South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands    People

Population: no indigenous inhabitants

note:  the small military garrison on South Georgia withdrew in
March 2001, to be replaced by a permanent group of scientists of the
British Antarctic Survey which also has a biological station on Bird
Island; the South Sandwich Islands are uninhabited (July 2001 est.)

South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands    Government Top of
Page

Country name: conventional long form:  South Georgia and the South
Sandwich Islands

conventional short form:  none

Dependency status: overseas territory of the UK, also claimed by
Argentina; administered from the Falkland Islands by UK civil
commissioner Donald A. LAMONT, representing Queen ELIZABETH II;
Grytviken, formerly a whaling station on South Georgia, is the
garrison town

National holiday: Liberation Day, 14 June (1982)

Constitution: adopted 3 October 1985

Legal system: the laws of the UK, where applicable, apply

Diplomatic representation in the US: none (overseas territory of the
UK, also claimed by Argentina)

Diplomatic representation from the US: none (overseas territory of
the UK, also claimed by Argentina)

Flag description: the flag of the UK is used



South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands    Economy

Economy - overview: Some fishing takes place in adjacent waters.
There is a potential source of income from harvesting fin fish and
krill. The islands receive income from postage stamps produced in
the UK.

Budget: revenues:  $291,777

expenditures:  $451,000, including capital expenditures of $NA (1988
est.)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  NA%

hydro:  NA%

nuclear:  NA%

other:  NA%

Electricity - consumption: NA kWh

South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands    Communications Top
of Page

Telephone system: general assessment:  NA

domestic:  NA

international:  coastal radiotelephone station at Grytviken

Radio broadcast stations: none

Television broadcast stations: 0 (1997)

Internet country code: .gs

South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands    Transportation Top
of Page

Waterways: none

Ports and harbors: Grytviken

Airports: none



South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands    Military

Military - note: defense is the responsibility of the UK

South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands    Transnational Issues T
op of Page

Disputes - international: claimed by Argentina

======================================================================

@Spain




Spain    Introduction

Background: Spain's powerful world empire of the 16th and 17th
centuries ultimately yielded command of the seas to England.
Subsequent failure to embrace the mercantile and industrial
revolutions caused the country to fall behind Britain, France, and
Germany in economic and political power. Spain remained neutral in
World Wars I and II, but suffered through a devastating Civil War
(1936-39). In the second half of the 20th century, it has played a
catch-up role in the western international community. Continuing
concerns are large-scale unemployment and the Basque separatist
movement.



Spain    Geography

Location: Southwestern Europe, bordering the Bay of Biscay,
Mediterranean Sea, North Atlantic Ocean, and Pyrenees Mountains,
southwest of France

Geographic coordinates: 40 00 N, 4 00 W

Map references: Europe

Area: total:  504,782 sq km

land:  499,542 sq km

water:  5,240 sq km

note:  includes Balearic Islands, Canary Islands, and five places of
sovereignty (plazas de soberania) on and off the coast of Morocco -
Ceuta, Melilla, Islas Chafarinas, Penon de Alhucemas, and Penon de
Velez de la Gomera

Area - comparative: slightly more than twice the size of Oregon

Land boundaries: total:  1,917.8 km

border countries:  Andorra 63.7 km, France 623 km, Gibraltar 1.2 km,
Portugal 1,214 km, Morocco (Ceuta) 6.3 km, Morocco (Melilla) 9.6 km

Coastline: 4,964 km

Maritime claims: contiguous zone:  24 NM

exclusive economic zone:  200 NM (applies only to the Atlantic Ocean)

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: temperate; clear, hot summers in interior, more moderate
and cloudy along coast; cloudy, cold winters in interior, partly
cloudy and cool along coast

Terrain: large, flat to dissected plateau surrounded by rugged
hills; Pyrenees in north

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Atlantic Ocean 0 m

highest point:  Pico de Teide (Tenerife) on Canary Islands 3,718 m

Natural resources: coal, lignite, iron ore, uranium, mercury,
pyrites, fluorspar, gypsum, zinc, lead, tungsten, copper, kaolin,
potash, hydropower, arable land

Land use: arable land:  30%

permanent crops:  9%

permanent pastures:  21%

forests and woodland:  32%

other:  8% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 34,530 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: periodic droughts

Environment - current issues: pollution of the Mediterranean Sea
from raw sewage and effluents from the offshore production of oil
and gas; water quality and quantity nationwide; air pollution;
deforestation; desertification

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Air Pollution,
Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air Pollution-Sulphur 94, Air
Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds, Antarctic-Environmental
Protocol, Antarctic-Marine Living Resources, Antarctic Treaty,
Biodiversity, Climate Change, Endangered Species, Environmental
Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping,
Marine Life Conservation, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection,
Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands,
Whaling

signed, but not ratified:  Air Pollution-Persistent Organic
Pollutants, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification

Geography - note: strategic location along approaches to Strait of
Gibraltar



Spain    People

Population: 40,037,995 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  14.62% (male 3,015,851; female 2,835,763)

15-64 years:  68.2% (male 13,701,065; female 13,605,314)

65 years and over:  17.18% (male 2,881,334; female 3,998,668) (2001
est.)

Population growth rate: 0.1% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 9.26 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 9.13 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 0.87 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.07 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.06 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1.01 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.72 male(s)/female

total population:  0.96 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 4.92 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  78.93 years

male:  75.47 years

female:  82.62 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 1.15 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 0.58% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 120,000 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: 2,000 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Spaniard(s)

adjective:  Spanish

Ethnic groups: composite of Mediterranean and Nordic types

Religions: Roman Catholic 99%, other 1%

Languages: Castilian Spanish (official) 74%, Catalan 17%, Galician
7%, Basque 2%

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  97%

male:  NA%

female:  NA%



Spain    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Kingdom of Spain

conventional short form:  Spain

local short form:  Espana

Government type: parliamentary monarchy

Capital: Madrid

Administrative divisions: 17 autonomous communities (comunidades
autonomas, singular - comunidad autonoma); Andalucia, Aragon,
Asturias, Baleares (Balearic Islands), Canarias (Canary Islands),
Cantabria, Castilla-La Mancha, Castilla y Leon, Cataluna, Communidad
Valencian, Extremadura, Galicia, La Rioja, Madrid, Murcia, Navarra,
Pais Vasco (Basque Country)

note:  there are five places of sovereignty on and off the coast of
Morocco: Ceuta and Melilla are administered as autonomous
communities; Islas Chafarinas, Penon de Alhucemas, and Penon de
Velez de la Gomera are under direct Spanish administration

Independence: 1492 (expulsion of the Moors and unification)

National holiday: Hispanic Day, 12 October

Constitution: 6 December 1978, effective 29 December 1978

Legal system: civil law system, with regional applications; has not
accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  King JUAN CARLOS I (since 22
November 1975); Heir Apparent Prince FELIPE, son of the monarch,
born 30 January 1968

head of government:  President of the Government Jose Maria AZNAR
Lopez (since 5 May 1996); First Vice President Juan Jose LUCAS
(since 28 February 2000) and Second Vice President (and Minister of
Economy) Rodrigo RATO Figaredo (since 5 May 1996)

cabinet:  Council of Ministers designated by the president

note:  there is also a Council of State that is the supreme
consultative organ of the government

elections:  the monarch is hereditary; president proposed by the
monarch and elected by the National Assembly following legislative
elections; election last held 12 March 2000 (next to be held NA
March 2004); vice presidents appointed by the monarch on proposal of
the president

election results:  Jose Maria AZNAR Lopez (PP) elected president;
percent of National Assembly vote - 44%

Legislative branch: bicameral; General Courts or National Assembly
or Las Cortes Generales consists of the Senate or Senado (259 seats
- 208 members directly elected by popular vote and the other 51
appointed by the regional legislatures to serve four-year terms) and
the Congress of Deputies or Congreso de los Diputados (350 seats;
members are elected by popular vote on block lists by proportional
representation to serve four-year terms)

elections:  Senate - last held 12 March 2000 (next to be held NA
March 2004); Congress of Deputies - last held 12 March 2000 (next to
be held NA March 2004)

election results:  Senate - percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by
party - PP 127, PSOE 61, CiU 8, PNV 6, CC 5, PIL 1; Congress of
Deputies - percent of vote by party - PP 44.5%, PSOE 34%, CiU 4.2%,
IU 5.4%, PNV 1.5%, CC 1%, BNG 1.3%; seats by party - PP 183, PSOE
125, CiU 15, IU 8, PNV 7, CC 4, BNG 3, other 5

Judicial branch: Supreme Court or Tribunal Supremo

Political parties and leaders: Basque Nationalist Party or PNV
[Xabier ARZALLUS Antia]; Canarian Coalition or CC (a coalition of
five parties) [Paulino RIVERO]; Convergence and Union or CiU [Jordi
PUJOL i Soley, secretary general] (a coalition of the Democratic
Convergence of Catalonia or CDC [Jordi PUJOL i Soley] and the
Democratic Union of Catalonia or UDC [Josep Antoni DURAN y LLEIDA]);
Galician Nationalist Bloc or BNG [Xose Manuel BEIRAS]; Party of
Independents from Lanzarote or PIL [Dimas MARTIN Martin]; Popular
Party or PP [Jose Maria AZNAR Lopez]; Spanish Socialist Workers
Party or PSOE [Jose Luis Rodriguez ZAPATERO]; United Left or IU (a
coalition of parties including the PCE and other small parties)
[Gaspar LLAMAZARES]

Political pressure groups and leaders: business and landowning
interests; Catholic Church; Euskal Herritarok or EH [Herri
BATASUNA]; free labor unions (authorized in April 1977); on the
extreme left, the Basque Fatherland and Liberty or ETA and the First
of October Antifascist Resistance Group or GRAPO use terrorism to
oppose the government; Opus Dei; Socialist General Union of Workers
or UGT and the smaller independent Workers Syndical Union or USO;
university students; Workers Confederation or CC.OO

International organization participation: AfDB, AsDB, Australia
Group, BIS, CCC, CE, CERN, EAPC, EBRD, ECE, ECLAC, EIB, EMU, ESA,
EU, FAO, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IEA, IFAD,
IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC,
IOM (observer), ISO, ITU, LAIA (observer), NATO, NEA, NSG, OAS
(observer), OECD, OPCW, OSCE, PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO,
UNMEE, UNMIBH, UNMIK, UNTAET, UNU, UPU, WCL, WEU, WHO, WIPO, WMO,
WToO, WTrO, ZC

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Francisco Javier RUPEREZ

chancery:  2375 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20037

telephone:  [1] (202) 452-0100, 728-2340

FAX:  [1] (202) 833-5670

consulate(s) general:  Boston, Chicago, Houston, Los Angeles, Miami,
New Orleans, New York, San Francisco, and San Juan (Puerto Rico)

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Edward L. ROMERO

embassy:  Serrano 75, 28006 Madrid

mailing address:  APO AE 09642

telephone:  [34] (91) 587-2200

FAX:  [34] (91) 587-2303

consulate(s) general:  Barcelona

Flag description: three horizontal bands of red (top), yellow
(double width), and red with the national coat of arms on the hoist
side of the yellow band; the coat of arms includes the royal seal
framed by the Pillars of Hercules, which are the two promontories
(Gibraltar and Ceuta) on either side of the eastern end of the
Strait of Gibraltar



Spain    Economy

Economy - overview: Spain's mixed capitalist economy supports a GDP
that on a per capita basis is 80% that of the four leading West
European economies. Its center-right government successfully worked
to gain admission to the first group of countries launching the
European single currency on 1 January 1999. The AZNAR administration
has continued to advocate liberalization, privatization, and
deregulation of the economy and has introduced some tax reforms to
that end. Unemployment has been steadily falling under the AZNAR
administration but remains the highest in the EU at 14%. The
government intends to make further progress in changing labor laws
and reforming pension schemes, which are key to the sustainability
of both Spain's internal economic advances and its competitiveness
in a single currency area. Adjusting to the monetary and other
economic policies of an integrated Europe - and further reducing
unemployment - will pose challenges to Spain in the next few years.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $720.8 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 4% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $18,000 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  4%

industry:  31%

services:  65% (1999)

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:
2.8%

highest 10%:  25.2% (1990)

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 3.4% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 17 million (2000)

Labor force - by occupation: services 64%, manufacturing, mining,
and construction 28%, agriculture 8% (1997 est.)

Unemployment rate: 14% (2000 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $105 billion

expenditures:  $109 billion, including capital expenditures of $12.8
billion (2000 est.)

Industries: textiles and apparel (including footwear), food and
beverages, metals and metal manufactures, chemicals, shipbuilding,
automobiles, machine tools, tourism

Industrial production growth rate: 4.5% (2000 est.)

Electricity - production: 197.694 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  57.71%

hydro:  12.1%

nuclear:  28.28%

other:  1.91% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 189.57 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 6.23 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 11.945 billion kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: grain, vegetables, olives, wine grapes,
sugar beets, citrus; beef, pork, poultry, dairy products; fish

Exports: $120.5 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Exports - commodities: machinery, motor vehicles; foodstuffs, other
consumer goods

Exports - partners: EU 71% (France 20%, Germany 12%, Italy 9%,
Portugal 9%, UK 8%), Latin America 6%, US 5% (2000)

Imports: $153.9 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Imports - commodities: machinery and equipment, fuels, chemicals,
semifinished goods; foodstuffs, consumer goods (1997)

Imports - partners: EU 68% (France 18%, Germany 16%, Italy 9%, UK
7%, Benelux 8%), US 8%, OPEC 5%, Latin America 4%, Japan 3% (1999)

Debt - external: $90 billion (1993 est.)

Economic aid - donor: ODA, $1.3 billion (1995)

Currency: Spanish peseta (ESP); euro (EUR)

note:  on 1 January 1999, the EU introduced the euro as a common
currency that is now being used by financial institutions in Spain
at a fixed rate of 166.386 Spanish pesetas per euro and will replace
the local currency for all transactions in 2002

Currency code: ESP; EUR

Exchange rates: euros per US dollar - 1.0659 (January 2001), 1.0854
(2000), 0.9386 (1999); pesetas per US dollar - 149.40 (1998), 146.41
(1997), 126.66 (1996)

Fiscal year: calendar year



Spain    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 17.336 million (1999)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 8.394 million (1999)

Telephone system: general assessment:  generally adequate, modern
facilities; teledensity is 44 main lines for each 100 persons

domestic:  NA

international:  22 coaxial submarine cables; satellite earth
stations - 2 Intelsat (1 Atlantic Ocean and 1 Indian Ocean), NA
Eutelsat; tropospheric scatter to adjacent countries

Radio broadcast stations: AM 208, FM 715, shortwave 1 (1998)

Radios: 13.1 million (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 224 (plus 2,105 repeaters)

note:  these figures include 11 television broadcast stations and 88
repeaters in the Canary Islands (1995)

Televisions: 16.2 million (1997)

Internet country code: .es

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 56 (2000)

Internet users: 4.6 million (2000)



Spain    Transportation

Railways: total:  13,950 km

broad gauge:  12,781 km 1.668-m gauge (6,358 km electrified; 2,295
km double track)

standard gauge:  525 km 1.435-m gauge (525 km electrified)

narrow gauge:  644 km 1.000-m gauge (438 km electrified) (1998)

Highways: total:  346,858 km

paved:  343,389 km (including 9,063 km of expressways)

unpaved:  3,469 km (1997)

Waterways: 1,045 km (of minor economic importance)

Pipelines: crude oil 265 km; petroleum products 1,794 km; natural
gas 1,666 km

Ports and harbors: Aviles, Barcelona, Bilbao, Cadiz, Cartagena,
Castellon de la Plana, Ceuta, Huelva, La Coruna, Las Palmas (Canary
Islands), Malaga, Melilla, Pasajes, Gijon, Santa Cruz de Tenerife
(Canary Islands), Santander, Tarragona, Valencia, Vigo

Merchant marine: total:  135 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
1,208,730 GRT/1,773,378 DWT

ships by type:  bulk 10, cargo 26, chemical tanker 10, container 9,
liquefied gas 2, livestock carrier 1, passenger 1, petroleum tanker
24, refrigerated cargo 5, roll on/roll off 35, short-sea passenger
8, specialized tanker 1, vehicle carrier 3 (2000 est.)

Airports: 110 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  75

over 3,047 m:  15

2,438 to 3,047 m:  10

1,524 to 2,437 m:  18

914 to 1,523 m:  19

under 914 m:  13 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  35

1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

914 to 1,523 m:  9

under 914 m:  25 (2000 est.)

Heliports: 2 (2000 est.)



Spain    Military

Military branches: Army, Navy, Air Force, Marines, Civil Guard,
National Police, Coastal Civil Guard

Military manpower - military age: 20 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  10,551,945 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
8,448,150 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  281,043
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $6 billion (FY97)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 1.1% (FY97)



Spain    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: Gibraltar issue with UK; Spain controls
five places of sovereignty (plazas de soberania) on and off the
coast of Morocco - the coastal enclaves of Ceuta and Melilla, which
Morocco contests, as well as the islands of Penon de Alhucemas,
Penon de Velez de la Gomera, and Islas Chafarinas

Illicit drugs: key European gateway country for Latin American
cocaine and North African hashish entering the European market;
transshipment point for and consumer of Southwest Asian heroin

======================================================================

@Spratly Islands

Spratly Islands    Introduction Top of Page

Background: Rich fishing grounds and the potential for gas and oil
deposits have caused this archipelago to be claimed in its entirety
by China, Taiwan, and Vietnam, while portions are claimed by
Malaysia and the Philippines. All five parties have occupied certain
islands or reefs, and occasional clashes have occurred between
Chinese and Vietnamese naval forces



Spratly Islands    Geography

Location: Southeastern Asia, group of reefs and islands in the South
China Sea, about two-thirds of the way from southern Vietnam to the
southern Philippines

Geographic coordinates: 8 38 N, 111 55 E

Map references: Southeast Asia

Area: total:  less than 5 sq km

land:  less than 5 sq km

water:  0 sq km

note:  includes 100 or so islets, coral reefs, and sea mounts
scattered over an area of nearly 410,000 sq km of the central South
China Sea

Area - comparative: NA

Land boundaries: 0 km

Coastline: 926 km

Maritime claims: NA

Climate: tropical

Terrain: flat

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  South China Sea 0 m

highest point:  unnamed location on Southwest Cay 4 m

Natural resources: fish, guano, undetermined oil and natural gas
potential

Land use: arable land:  0%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  0%

forests and woodland:  0%

other:  100%

Irrigated land: 0 sq km (1993)

Natural hazards: typhoons; serious maritime hazard because of
numerous reefs and shoals

Environment - current issues: NA

Geography - note: strategically located near several primary
shipping lanes in the central South China Sea; includes numerous
small islands, atolls, shoals, and coral reefs



Spratly Islands    People

Population: no indigenous inhabitants

note:  there are scattered garrisons occupied by personnel of
several claimant states (July 2001 est.)



Spratly Islands    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  none

conventional short form:  Spratly Islands



Spratly Islands    Economy

Economy - overview: Economic activity is limited to commercial
fishing. The proximity to nearby oil- and gas-producing sedimentary
basins suggests the potential for oil and gas deposits, but the
region is largely unexplored, and there are no reliable estimates of
potential reserves; commercial exploitation has yet to be developed.



Spratly Islands    Transportation

Waterways: none

Ports and harbors: none; offshore anchorage only

Airports: 4 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  1

914 to 1,523 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  3

914 to 1,523 m:  1

under 914 m:  2 (2000 est.)



Spratly Islands    Military

Military - note: Spratly Islands consist of more than 100 small
islands or reefs, of which about 45 are claimed and occupied by
China, Malaysia, the Philippines, Taiwan, and Vietnam



Spratly Islands    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: all of the Spratly Islands are claimed by
China, Taiwan, and Vietnam; parts of them are claimed by Malaysia
and the Philippines; in 1984, Brunei established an exclusive
fishing zone that encompasses Louisa Reef in the southern Spratly
Islands, but has not publicly claimed the island; in 2000, China
joined ASEAN discussions towards creating a South China Sea "code of
conduct" - a non-legally binding confidence building measure

======================================================================

@Sri Lanka




Sri Lanka    Introduction

Background: Occupied by the Portuguese in the 16th century and the
Dutch in the 17th century, the island was ceded to the British in
1802. As Ceylon it became independent in 1948; its name was changed
in 1972. Tensions between the Sinhalese majority and Tamil
separatists erupted in violence in the mid-1980s. Tens of thousands
have died in an ethnic war that continues to fester.



Sri Lanka    Geography

Location: Southern Asia, island in the Indian Ocean, south of India

Geographic coordinates: 7 00 N, 81 00 E

Map references: Asia

Area: total:  65,610 sq km

land:  64,740 sq km

water:  870 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly larger than West Virginia

Land boundaries: 0 km

Coastline: 1,340 km

Maritime claims: contiguous zone:  24 NM

continental shelf:  200 NM or to the edge of the continental margin

exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: tropical monsoon; northeast monsoon (December to March);
southwest monsoon (June to October)

Terrain: mostly low, flat to rolling plain; mountains in
south-central interior

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Indian Ocean 0 m

highest point:  Pidurutalagala 2,524 m

Natural resources: limestone, graphite, mineral sands, gems,
phosphates, clay, hydropower

Land use: arable land:  14%

permanent crops:  15%

permanent pastures:  7%

forests and woodland:  32%

other:  32% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 5,500 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: occasional cyclones and tornadoes

Environment - current issues: deforestation; soil erosion; wildlife
populations threatened by poaching and urbanization; coastal
degradation from mining activities and increased pollution;
freshwater resources being polluted by industrial wastes and sewage
runoff; waste disposal; air pollution in Colombo

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental
Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Nuclear Test Ban,
Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands

signed, but not ratified:  Marine Life Conservation

Geography - note: strategic location near major Indian Ocean sea
lanes



Sri Lanka    People

Population: 19,408,635 (July 2001 est.)

note:  since the outbreak of hostilities between the government and
armed Tamil separatists in the mid-1980s, several hundred thousand
Tamil civilians have fled the island; as of mid-1999, approximately
66,000 were housed in 133 refugee camps in south India, another
40,000 lived outside the Indian camps, and more than 200,000 Tamils
have sought refuge in the West

Age structure: 0-14 years:  25.99% (male 2,578,618; female 2,464,928)

15-64 years:  67.39% (male 6,369,881; female 6,708,852)

65 years and over:  6.62% (male 615,253; female 671,103) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 0.87% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 16.58 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 6.43 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: -1.43 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  0.95 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.92 male(s)/female

total population:  0.97 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 16.08 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  72.09 years

male:  69.58 years

female:  74.73 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 1.95 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 0.07% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 7,500 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: 490 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Sri Lankan(s)

adjective:  Sri Lankan

Ethnic groups: Sinhalese 74%, Tamil 18%, Moor 7%, Burgher, Malay,
and Vedda 1%

Religions: Buddhist 70%, Hindu 15%, Christian 8%, Muslim 7% (1999)

Languages: Sinhala (official and national language) 74%, Tamil
(national language) 18%, other 8%

note:  English is commonly used in government and is spoken
competently by about 10% of the population

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  90.2%

male:  93.4%

female:  87.2% (1995 est.)



Sri Lanka    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka

conventional short form:  Sri Lanka

former:  Serendib, Ceylon

Government type: republic

Capital: Colombo; note - Sri Jayewardenepura Kotte is the
legislative capital

Administrative divisions: 8 provinces; Central, North Central, North
Eastern, North Western, Sabaragamuwa, Southern, Uva, Western; note -
North Eastern province may have been divided in two - Northern and
Eastern

Independence: 4 February 1948 (from UK)

National holiday: Independence Day, 4 February (1948)

Constitution: adopted 16 August 1978

Legal system: a highly complex mixture of English common law,
Roman-Dutch, Muslim, Sinhalese, and customary law; has not accepted
compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Chandrika Bandaranaike
KUMARATUNGA (since 12 November 1994); note - Ratnasiri
WICKRAMANAYAKE (since 10 August 2000) is the prime minister; in Sri
Lanka the president is considered to be both the chief of state and
the head of the government, this is in contrast to the more common
practice of dividing the roles between the president and the prime
minister when both offices exist

head of government:  President Chandrika Bandaranaike KUMARATUNGA
(since 12 November 1994); note - Ratnasiri WICKRAMANAYAKE (since 10
August 2000) is the prime minister; in Sri Lanka the president is
considered to be both the chief of state and the head of the
government, this is in contrast to the more common practice of
dividing the roles between the president and the prime minister when
both offices exist

cabinet:  Cabinet appointed by the president in consultation with
the prime minister

elections:  president elected by popular vote for a six-year term;
election last held 21 December 1999 (next to be held NA December
2005)

election results:  Chandrika Bandaranaike KUMARATUNGA reelected
president; percent of vote - Chandrika Bandaranaike KUMARATUNGA (PA)
51%, Ranil WICKREMASINGHE (UNP) 42%, other 7%

Legislative branch: unicameral Parliament (225 seats; members
elected by popular vote on the basis of a modified proportional
representation system by district to serve six-year terms)

elections:  last held 10 October 2000 (next to be held NA October
2006)

election results:  percent of vote by party - PA 45.11%, UNP 40.22%,
JVP 6%, NUA 2.29%, SU 1.48%, TULF 1.23%, other 3.67%; seats by party
- PA 107, UNP 89, JVP 10, TULF 5, EPDP 4, NUA 4, TELO 3, ACTC 1, SU
1, independent 1

Judicial branch: Supreme Court; Court of Appeals; judges for both
courts are appointed by the president

Political parties and leaders: All Ceylon Tamil Congress or ACTC
[Nalliah GURUPAUAN]; Ceylon Workers Congress or CLDC [Arumugam
THONDAMAN]; Communist Party [Raja COLLURE]; Democratic United
National (Lalith) Front or DUNLF [Srimani ATHULATHMUDALI]; Eelam
People's Democratic Party or EPDP [Douglas DEVANANDA]; Eelam
People's Revolutionary Liberation Front or EPRLF [Suresh
PREMACHANDRA]; Janatha Vimukthi Peramuna or JVP [Tilvan SILVA];
National Unity Alliance or NUA [leader NA]; People's Alliance or PA
[Chandrika Bandaranaike KUMARATUNGA]; People's Liberation
Organization of Tamil Eelam or PLOTE [D. SIDDATHAN]; Sihala Urumaya
or SU [leader NA]; Sri Lanka Freedom Party or SLFP [Chandrika
Bandaranaike KUMARATUNGA]; Sri Lanka Muslim Congress or SLMC [Rauff
HAKEEM and Ferial ASHRAFF]; Sri Lanka Progressive Front or SLPF
[leader NA]; Tamil Eelam Liberation Organization or TELO
[SUBRAMANIUM]; Tamil United Liberation Front or TULF [R. SAMPATHAN];
United National Party or UNP [Ranil WICKREMASINGHE]; Upcountry
People's Front or UPF [P. CHANDRASEKARAN]; several ethnic Tamil and
Muslim parties, represented in either parliament or provincial
councils

Political pressure groups and leaders: Buddhist clergy; labor
unions; Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam or LTTE (insurgent group
fighting for a separate state); radical chauvinist Sinhalese groups
such as the National Movement Against Terrorism; Sinhalese Buddhist
lay groups

International organization participation: AsDB, C, CCC, CP, ESCAP,
FAO, G-24, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC,
IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM,
ISO, ITU, NAM, OAS (observer), OPCW, PCA, SAARC, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO,
UNIDO, UNTAET, UNU, UPU, WCL, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Warnasena RASAPUTRAM

chancery:  2148 Wyoming Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone:  [1] (202) 483-4025 (through 4028)

FAX:  [1] (202) 232-7181

consulate(s) general:  Los Angeles

consulate(s):  New York

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
E. Ashley WILLS

embassy:  210 Galle Road, Colombo 3

mailing address:  P. O. Box 106, Colombo

telephone:  [94] (1) 448007

FAX:  [94] (1) 437345

Flag description: yellow with two panels; the smaller hoist-side
panel has two equal vertical bands of green (hoist side) and orange;
the other panel is a large dark red rectangle with a yellow lion
holding a sword, and there is a yellow bo leaf in each corner; the
yellow field appears as a border that goes around the entire flag
and extends between the two panels



Sri Lanka    Economy

Economy - overview: In 1977, Colombo abandoned statist economic
policies and its import substitution trade policy for
market-oriented policies and export-oriented trade. Sri Lanka's most
dynamic sectors now are food processing, textiles and apparel, food
and beverages, telecommunications, and insurance and banking. By
1996 plantation crops made up only 20% of exports (compared with 93%
in 1970), while textiles and garments accounted for 63%. GDP grew at
an annual average rate of 5.5% throughout the 1990s until a drought
and a deteriorating security situation lowered growth to 3.8% in
1996. The economy rebounded in 1997-98 with growth of 6.4% and 4.7%
- but slowed to 4.3% in 1999. Growth increased to 5.6% in 2000, with
growth in tourism and exports leading the way. But a resurgence of
civil war between the Sinhalese and the minority Tamils and a
possible slowdown in tourism dampen prospects for 2001. For the next
round of reforms, the central bank of Sri Lanka recommends that
Colombo expand market mechanisms in nonplantation agriculture,
dismantle the government's monopoly on wheat imports, and promote
more competition in the financial sector.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $62.7 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 5.6% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $3,250 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  21%

industry:  19%

services:  60% (1998)

Population below poverty line: 22% (1997 est.)

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:
1.8%

highest 10%:  39.7% (1995-96 est.)

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 8.5% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 6.6 million (1998)

Labor force - by occupation: services 45%, agriculture 38%, industry
17% (1998 est.)

Unemployment rate: 8.8% (1999 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $3 billion

expenditures:  $3 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
(2000 est.)

Industries: processing of rubber, tea, coconuts, and other
agricultural commodities; clothing, cement, petroleum refining,
textiles, tobacco

Industrial production growth rate: 4% (1999)

Electricity - production: 6.026 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  29.9%

hydro:  70.1%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 5.604 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: rice, sugarcane, grains, pulses, oilseed,
spices, tea, rubber, coconuts; milk, eggs, hides, beef

Exports: $5.2 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Exports - commodities: textiles and apparel, tea, diamonds, coconut
products, petroleum products

Exports - partners: US 39%, UK 13%, Middle East 8%, Germany 5%,
Japan 4% (1999)

Imports: $6.1 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Imports - commodities: machinery and equipment, textiles, petroleum,
foodstuffs

Imports - partners: Japan 10%, India 9%, Hong Kong 8%, Singapore 8%,
South Korea 6% (1999)

Debt - external: $9.9 billion (2000)

Economic aid - recipient: $577 million (1998)

Currency: Sri Lankan rupee (LKR)

Currency code: LKR

Exchange rates: Sri Lankan rupees per US dollar - 83.506 (January
2001), 77.005 (2000), 70.635 (1999), 64.450 (1998), 58.995 (1997),
55.271 (1996)

Fiscal year: calendar year



Sri Lanka    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 494,509 (1998)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 228,604 (1999)

Telephone system: general assessment:  very inadequate domestic
service, particularly in rural areas; some hope for improvement with
privatization of national telephone company and encouragement to
private investment; good international service (1999)

domestic:  national trunk network consists mostly of digital
microwave radio relay; fiber-optic links now in use in Colombo area
and two fixed wireless local loops have been installed; competition
is strong in mobile cellular systems; telephone density remains low
at 2.6 main lines per 100 persons (1999)

international:  submarine cables to Indonesia and Djibouti;
satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat (Indian Ocean) (1999)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 26, FM 45, shortwave 1 (1998)

Radios: 3.85 million (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 21 (1997)

Televisions: 1.53 million (1997)

Internet country code: .lk

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 5 (2000)

Internet users: 65,000 (2000)



Sri Lanka    Transportation

Railways: total:  1,463 km

broad gauge:  1,404 km 1.676-m gauge

narrow gauge:  59 km 0.762-m gauge (1996)

Highways: total:  11,285 km

paved:  10,721 km

unpaved:  564 km (1998 est.)

Waterways: 430 km (navigable by shallow-draft craft)

Pipelines: crude oil and petroleum products 62 km (1987)

Ports and harbors: Colombo, Galle, Jaffna, Trincomalee

Merchant marine: total:  20 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
149,902 GRT/247,852 DWT

ships by type:  bulk 1, cargo 16, container 1, petroleum tanker 1,
refrigerated cargo 1 (2000 est.)

Airports: 14 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  12

over 3,047 m:  1

1,524 to 2,437 m:  5

914 to 1,523 m:  6 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  2

1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

under 914 m:  1 (2000 est.)



Sri Lanka    Military

Military branches: Army, Navy, Air Force, Police Force

Military manpower - military age: 18 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  5,304,323 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
4,119,511 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  193,522
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $719 million (FY98)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 4.2% (FY98)



Sri Lanka    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

======================================================================

@Sudan




Sudan    Introduction

Background: Military dictatorships promulgating an Islamic
government have mostly run the country since independence from the
UK in 1956. Over the past two decades, a civil war pitting black
Christians and animists in the south against the Arab-Muslims of the
north has cost at least 1.5 million lives in war- and famine-related
deaths, as well as the displacement of millions of others.



Sudan    Geography

Location: Northern Africa, bordering the Red Sea, between Egypt and
Eritrea

Geographic coordinates: 15 00 N, 30 00 E

Map references: Africa

Area: total:  2,505,810 sq km

land:  2.376 million sq km

water:  129,810 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly more than one-quarter the size of the US

Land boundaries: total:  7,687 km

border countries:  Central African Republic 1,165 km, Chad 1,360 km,
Democratic Republic of the Congo 628 km, Egypt 1,273 km, Eritrea 605
km, Ethiopia 1,606 km, Kenya 232 km, Libya 383 km, Uganda 435 km

Coastline: 853 km

Maritime claims: contiguous zone:  18 NM

continental shelf:  200-m depth or to the depth of exploitation

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: tropical in south; arid desert in north; rainy season
(April to October)

Terrain: generally flat, featureless plain; mountains in east and
west

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Red Sea 0 m

highest point:  Kinyeti 3,187 m

Natural resources: petroleum; small reserves of iron ore, copper,
chromium ore, zinc, tungsten, mica, silver, gold, hydropower

Land use: arable land:  5%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  46%

forests and woodland:  19%

other:  30% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 19,460 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: dust storms

Environment - current issues: inadequate supplies of potable water;
wildlife populations threatened by excessive hunting; soil erosion;
desertification

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species, Law of the Sea,
Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection

signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Geography - note: largest country in Africa; dominated by the Nile
and its tributaries



Sudan    People

Population: 36,080,373 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  44.62% (male 8,227,011; female 7,870,783)

15-64 years:  53.29% (male 9,619,218; female 9,608,469)

65 years and over:  2.09% (male 425,898; female 328,994) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 2.79% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 37.89 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 10.04 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 0.04 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  1.29 male(s)/female

total population:  1.03 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 68.67 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  56.94 years

male:  55.85 years

female:  58.08 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 5.35 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 0.99% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: NA

HIV/AIDS - deaths: NA

Nationality: noun:  Sudanese (singular and plural)

adjective:  Sudanese

Ethnic groups: black 52%, Arab 39%, Beja 6%, foreigners 2%, other 1%

Religions: Sunni Muslim 70% (in north), indigenous beliefs 25%,
Christian 5% (mostly in south and Khartoum)

Languages: Arabic (official), Nubian, Ta Bedawie, diverse dialects
of Nilotic, Nilo-Hamitic, Sudanic languages, English

note:  program of "Arabization" in process

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  46.1%

male:  57.7%

female:  34.6% (1995 est.)



Sudan    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Republic of the Sudan

conventional short form:  Sudan

local long form:  Jumhuriyat as-Sudan

local short form:  As-Sudan

former:  Anglo-Egyptian Sudan

Government type: transitional - ruling military junta took power in
1989; government is dominated by members of Sudan's National Islamic
Front (NIF), a fundamentalist political organization, which uses the
National Congress Party (NCP) as its legal front

Capital: Khartoum

Administrative divisions: 26 states (wilayat, singular - wilayah);
A'ali an Nil, Al Bahr al Ahmar, Al Buhayrat, Al Jazirah, Al Khartum,
Al Qadarif, Al Wahdah, An Nil al Abyad, An Nil al Azraq, Ash
Shamaliyah, Bahr al Jabal, Gharb al Istiwa'iyah, Gharb Bahr al
Ghazal, Gharb Darfur, Gharb Kurdufan, Janub Darfur, Janub Kurdufan,
Junqali, Kassala, Nahr an Nil, Shamal Bahr al Ghazal, Shamal Darfur,
Shamal Kurdufan, Sharq al Istiwa'iyah, Sinnar, Warab

Independence: 1 January 1956 (from Egypt and UK)

National holiday: Independence Day, 1 January (1956)

Constitution: 12 April 1973, suspended following coup of 6 April
1985; interim constitution of 10 October 1985 suspended following
coup of 30 June 1989; new constitution implemented on 30 June 1998
partially suspended 12 December 1999 by President BASHIR

Legal system: based on English common law and Islamic law; as of 20
January 1991, the now defunct Revolutionary Command Council imposed
Islamic law in the northern states; Islamic law applies to all
residents of the northern states regardless of their religion; some
separate religious courts; accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction, with
reservations

Suffrage: 17 years of age; universal, but noncompulsory

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Lt. Gen. Umar Hasan
Ahmad al-BASHIR (since 16 October 1993); First Vice President Ali
Uthman Muhammad TAHA (since 17 February 1998), Second Vice President
Moses MACHAR (since 12 February 2001); note - the president is both
the chief of state and head of government

head of government:  President Lt. Gen. Umar Hasan Ahmad al-BASHIR
(since 16 October 1993); First Vice President Ali Uthman Muhammad
TAHA (since 17 February 1998), Second Vice President Moses MACHAR
(since 12 February 2001); note - the president is both the chief of
state and head of government

cabinet:  Council of Ministers appointed by the president; note -
the National Congress Party (front for the National Islamic Front or
NIF) dominates BASHIR's cabinet

elections:  president elected by popular vote for a five-year term;
election last held 13-23 December 2000 (next to be held NA 2005)

election results:  Umar Hasan Ahmad al-BASHIR reelected president;
percent of vote - Umar Hasan Ahmad al-BASHIR 86.5%, Ja'afar Muhammed
NUMAYRI 9.6%, three other candidates received less than a combined
4% of the vote

note:  BASHIR assumed supreme executive power in 1989 and retained
it through several transitional governments in the early and mid-90s
before being popularly elected for the first time in March 1996

Legislative branch: unicameral National Assembly (400 seats; 275
elected by popular vote, 125 elected by a supra assembly of interest
groups known as the National Congress)

elections:  last held 13-23 December 2000 (next to be held NA)

election results:  NA; few parties participated in the 2000 elections

note:  on 12 December 1999, BASHIR dismissed the National Assembly
during an internal power struggle between the president and speaker
of the National Assembly Hasan al-TURABI

Judicial branch: Supreme Court; Special Revolutionary Courts

Political parties and leaders: the government allows political
"associations" under a 1998 law revised in 2000; to obtain
government approval parties must accept the constitution and refrain
from advocating or using violence against the regime; approved
parties include the National Congress Party or NCP [Ibrahim Ahmed
UMAR], Popular National Congress [Hassan al-TURABI], and a handful
of minor pro-government parties

Political pressure groups and leaders: National Congress Party
[Ibrahim Ahmed UMAR] (front for the National Islamic Front or NIF);
Popular National Congress [Hassan al-TURABI]; Umma [Sadiq al-MAHDI];
Democratic Unionist Party [Muhammed Uthman AL-MIRGHANI]; National
Democratic Alliance [Muhammed Uthman AL-MIRGHANI, chairman]; Sudan
People's Liberation Army [Dr. John GARANG]

International organization participation: ABEDA, ACP, AfDB, AFESD,
AL, AMF, CAEU, CCC, ECA, FAO, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICRM, IDA,
IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IGAD, ILO, IMF, IMO, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC,
IOM, ISO (correspondent), ITU, NAM, OAU, OIC, OPCW, PCA, UN, UNCTAD,
UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNU, UPU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO
(observer)

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Mahdi Ibrahim MAHAMMAD (recalled to Khartoum in August 1998)

chancery:  2210 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone:  [1] (202) 338-8565

FAX:  [1] (202) 667-2406

Diplomatic representation from the US: US officials at the US
Embassy in Khartoum were moved for security reasons in February 1996
and have been relocated to the US Embassies in Nairobi, Kenya, and
Cairo, Egypt, from where they make periodic visits to Khartoum; the
US Embassy in Khartoum is located on Sharia Abdul Latif Avenue;
mailing address - P. O. Box 699, Khartoum; APO AE 09829; telephone -
[249] (11) 774611 or 774700; FAX - [249] (11) 774137; the US Embassy
in Nairobi, Kenya is located in the Interim Office Building on
Mombasa Road, Nairobi; mailing address - P. O. Box 30137, Box 21A,
Unit 64100, APO AE 09831; telephone - [254] (2) 751613; FAX - [254]
(2) 743204; the US Embassy in Cairo, Egypt is located at (North
Gate) 8, Kamel El-Din Salah Street, Garden City, Cairo; mailing
address - Unit 64900, APO AE 09839-4900; telephone - [20] (2)
3557371; FAX - [20] (2) 3573200

Flag description: three equal horizontal bands of red (top), white,
and black with a green isosceles triangle based on the hoist side



Sudan    Economy

Economy - overview: Sudan is buffeted by civil war, chronic
instability, adverse weather, weak world agricultural prices, a drop
in remittances from abroad, and counterproductive economic policies.
The private sector's main areas of activity are agriculture (which
employs 80% of the work force), trading, and light industry which is
mostly processing of agricultural goods. Most of the 1990s were
characterized by sluggish economic growth as the IMF suspended
lending, declared Sudan a non-cooperative state, and threatened to
expel Sudan from the IMF. Starting in 1997, Sudan began implementing
IMF macroeconomic reforms which have successfully stabilized
inflation at 10% or less. Sudan continues to have limited
international credit resources as over 75% of Sudan's debt of $24.9
billion is in arrears and Khartoum's continued prosecution of the
civil war works to isolate Sudan. In 1999, Sudan began exporting oil
and in 1999-2000 had recorded its first trade surpluses. Current oil
production stands at 185,000 barrels per day, of which about 70% is
exported and the rest refined for domestic consumption. Despite its
many infrastructure problems, Sudan's increased oil production, the
return of regular rainfall, and recent investments in irrigation
schemes should allow the country to achieve economic growth of 6% in
2001.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $35.7 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 7% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $1,000 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  39%

industry:  17%

services:  44% (1998 est.)

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 10% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 11 million (1996 est.)

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture 80%, industry and commerce
10%, government 6%, unemployed 4% (1996 est.)

Unemployment rate: 4% (1996 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $1.2 billion

expenditures:  $1.3 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
(2000 est.)

Industries: cotton ginning, textiles, cement, edible oils, sugar,
soap distilling, shoes, petroleum refining, pharmaceuticals,
armaments

Industrial production growth rate: 5% (1996 est.)

Electricity - production: 1.76 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  42.05%

hydro:  57.95%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 1.637 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: cotton, groundnuts (peanuts), sorghum,
millet, wheat, gum arabic, sugarcane, cassara, mangos, papaya,
bananas, sweet potatoes, sesame; sheep, livestock

Exports: $1.7 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Exports - commodities: oil and petroleum products, cotton, sesame,
livestock, groundnuts, gum arabic, sugar

Exports - partners: Saudi Arabia 16%, Italy 10%, Germany 5%, France
3%, Thailand 3% (1999)

Imports: $1.2 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Imports - commodities: foodstuffs, manufactured goods, machinery and
transport equipment, medicines and chemicals, textiles

Imports - partners: China 14.7%, Libya 14.7%, Saudi Arabia 8.9%, UK
8.7%, France 6.7% (1999)

Debt - external: $24.9 billion (2000 est.)

Economic aid - recipient: $187 million (1997)

Currency: Sudanese dinar (SDD)

Currency code: SDD

Exchange rates: Sudanese dinars per US dollar - 257.44 (January
2001), 257.12 (2000), 252.55 (1999), 200.80 (1998), 157.57 (1997),
125.08 (1996)

Fiscal year: calendar year



Sudan    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 400,000 (2000)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 20,000 (2000)

Telephone system: general assessment:  large, well-equipped system
by regional standards and being upgraded; cellular communications
started in 1996 and have expanded substantially

domestic:  consists of microwave radio relay, cable, radiotelephone
communications, tropospheric scatter, and a domestic satellite
system with 14 earth stations

international:  satellite earth stations - 1 Intelsat (Atlantic
Ocean) and 1 Arabsat (2000)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 12, FM 1, shortwave 1 (1998)

Radios: 7.55 million (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 3 (1997)

Televisions: 2.38 million (1997)

Internet country code: .sd

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 1 (2000)

Internet users: 10,000 (2000)



Sudan    Transportation

Railways: total:  5,311 km

narrow gauge:  4,595 km 1.067-m gauge; 716 km 1.6096-m gauge
plantation line

note:  the main line linking Khartoum to Port Sudan carries over
two-thirds of Sudan's rail traffic

Highways: total:  11,900 km

paved:  4,320 km

unpaved:  7,580 km (1996)

Waterways: 5,310 km

Pipelines: refined products 815 km

Ports and harbors: Juba, Khartoum, Kusti, Malakal, Nimule, Port
Sudan, Sawakin

Merchant marine: total:  4 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 38,093
GRT/49,727 DWT

ships by type:  cargo 2, roll on/roll off 2 (2000 est.)

Airports: 61 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  12

over 3,047 m:  1

2,438 to 3,047 m:  8

1,524 to 2,437 m:  3 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  49

1,524 to 2,437 m:  15

914 to 1,523 m:  25

under 914 m:  9 (2000 est.)

Heliports: 1 (2000 est.)



Sudan    Military

Military branches: Army, Navy, Air Force, Popular Defense Force
Militia

Military manpower - military age: 18 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  8,436,732 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
5,194,862 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  398,294
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $550 million (FY98)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: NA%



Sudan    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: administrative boundary with Kenya does
not coincide with international boundary; Egypt asserts its claim to
the "Hala'ib Triangle," a barren area of 20,580 sq km under partial
Sudanese administration that is defined by an administrative
boundary which supersedes the treaty boundary of 1899

======================================================================

@Suriname




Suriname    Introduction

Background: Independence from the Netherlands was granted in 1975.
Five years later the civilian government was replaced by a military
regime that soon declared a socialist republic. It continued to rule
through a succession of nominally civilian administrations until
1987, when international pressure finally brought about a democratic
election. In 1989, the military overthrew the civilian government,
but a democratically elected government returned to power in 1991.



Suriname    Geography

Location: Northern South America, bordering the North Atlantic
Ocean, between French Guiana and Guyana

Geographic coordinates: 4 00 N, 56 00 W

Map references: South America

Area: total:  163,270 sq km

land:  161,470 sq km

water:  1,800 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly larger than Georgia

Land boundaries: total:  1,707 km

border countries:  Brazil 597 km, French Guiana 510 km, Guyana 600 km

Coastline: 386 km

Maritime claims: exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: tropical; moderated by trade winds

Terrain: mostly rolling hills; narrow coastal plain with swamps

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  unnamed location in the coastal
plain -2 m

highest point:  Juliana Top 1,230 m

Natural resources: timber, hydropower, fish, kaolin, shrimp,
bauxite, gold, and small amounts of nickel, copper, platinum, iron
ore

Land use: arable land:  0%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  0%

forests and woodland:  96%

other:  4% (1993 est.)

note:  there are 94,927 hectares of arable land, 7,195 hectares of
permanent crops, and 15,000 hectares of permanent pastures

Irrigated land: 600 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: NA

Environment - current issues: deforestation as timber is cut for
export; pollution of inland waterways by small-scale mining
activities

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species, Law of the Sea,
Marine Dumping, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship
Pollution, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands

signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Geography - note: mostly tropical rain forest; great diversity of
flora and fauna that, for the most part, is increasingly threatened
by new development; relatively small population, most of which lives
along the coast



Suriname    People

Population: 433,998 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  31.62% (male 70,314; female 66,924)

15-64 years:  62.71% (male 138,969; female 133,193)

65 years and over:  5.67% (male 11,194; female 13,404) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 0.6% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 20.53 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 5.68 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: -8.87 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.84 male(s)/female

total population:  1.03 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 24.27 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  71.63 years

male:  68.97 years

female:  74.42 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 2.47 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 1.26% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 3,000 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: 210 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Surinamer(s)

adjective:  Surinamese

Ethnic groups: Hindustani (also known locally as "East Indians";
their ancestors emigrated from northern India in the latter part of
the 19th century) 37%, Creole (mixed white and black) 31%, Javanese
15%, "Maroons" (their African ancestors were brought to the country
in the 17th and 18th centuries as slaves and escaped to the
interior) 10%, Amerindian 2%, Chinese 2%, white 1%, other 2%

Religions: Hindu 27.4%, Muslim 19.6%, Roman Catholic 22.8%,
Protestant 25.2% (predominantly Moravian), indigenous beliefs 5%

Languages: Dutch (official), English (widely spoken), Sranang Tongo
(Surinamese, sometimes called Taki-Taki, is native language of
Creoles and much of the younger population and is lingua franca
among others), Hindustani (a dialect of Hindi), Javanese

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  93%

male:  95%

female:  91% (1995 est.)



Suriname    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Republic of Suriname

conventional short form:  Suriname

local long form:  Republiek Suriname

local short form:  Suriname

former:  Netherlands Guiana, Dutch Guiana

Government type: constitutional democracy

Capital: Paramaribo

Administrative divisions: 10 districts (distrikten, singular -
distrikt); Brokopondo, Commewijne, Coronie, Marowijne, Nickerie,
Para, Paramaribo, Saramacca, Sipaliwini, Wanica

Independence: 25 November 1975 (from Netherlands)

National holiday: Independence Day, 25 November (1975)

Constitution: ratified 30 September 1987

Legal system: based on Dutch legal system incorporating French penal
theory

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Runaldo Ronald
VENETIAAN (since 12 August 2000); Vice President Jules Rattankoemar
AJODHIA (since 12 August 2000); note - the president is both the
chief of state and head of government

head of government:  President Runaldo Ronald VENETIAAN (since 12
August 2000); Vice President Jules Rattankoemar AJODHIA (since 12
August 2000); note - the president is both the chief of state and
head of government

cabinet:  Cabinet of Ministers appointed by the president from among
the members of the National Assembly

elections:  president and vice president elected by the National
Assembly or, if no presidential or vice presidential candidate
receives a constitutional majority vote in the National Assembly
after two votes, by the larger People's Assembly (869
representatives from the national, local, and regional councils),
for five-year terms; election last held 6 May 2000 (next to be held
NA May 2005)

note:  widespread demonstrations during the summer of 1999 led to
the calling of elections a year early

election results:  Runaldo Ronald VENETIAAN elected president;
percent of legislative vote - 72.5; National Assembly elected the
president - Runaldo Ronald VENETIAAN (New Front) 37 votes, Rashied
DOEKHIE (NDP) 10 votes

Legislative branch: unicameral National Assembly or Nationale
Assemblee (51 seats; members are elected by popular vote to serve
five-year terms)

elections:  last held 5 May 2000 (next to be held NA May 2005)

election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
NF 33, MC 10, DNP 2000 3, DA '91 2, PVF 2, PALU 1

note:  widespread demonstrations during the summer of 1999 led to
the calling of elections a year early

Judicial branch: Court of Justice (justices are nominated for life)

Political parties and leaders: Democratic Alternative '91 or DA '91
(a coalition of the Alternative Forum or AF and Party for
Brotherhood and Unity in Politics or BEP, formed in January 1991)
[S. RAMKHELAWAN]; Democratic National Platform 2000 or DNP 2000
(coalition of two parties, Democratic Party and Democrats of the
21st Century) [Jules WIJDENBOSCH]; Independent Progressive
Democratic Alternative or OPDA [Joginder RAMKHILAWAN]; Millennium
Combination or MC (a coalition of three parties, Democratic
Alternative, Party for National Unity and Solidarity, and National
Democratic Party) [leader NA]; National Democratic Party or NDP
[Desire BOUTERSE]; Naya Kadam or NK [leader NA]; Party for Renewal
and Democracy or BVD [Tjan GOBARDHAN]; Party of National Unity and
Solidarity or KTPI [Willy SOEMITA]; Pertjaja Luhur [Paul
SOMOHARDJO]; Progressive Workers' and Farm Laborers' Union or PALU
[Ir Iwan KROLIS]; The New Front or NF (a coalition of four parties
Suriname National Party or NPS, Progressive Reform Party or VHP,
Suriname Labor Party or SPA, and Pertjaja Luhur) [Ronald R.
VENETIAAN]; The Progressive Development Alliance (a combination of
three parties, Renewed Progressive Party or HPP, Party of the
Federation of Land Workers or PVF, and Suriname Progressive People's
Party or PSV) [Harry KISOENSINGH]

Political pressure groups and leaders: General Liberation and
Development Party or ABOP [Ronnie BRUNSWIJK]; Mandela Bushnegro
Liberation Movement [Leendert ADAMS]; Tucayana Amazonica [Alex
JUBITANA, Thomas SABAJO]; Union for Liberation and Democracy [Kofi
AFONGPONG]

International organization participation: ACP, Caricom, ECLAC, FAO,
G-77, IADB, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, ICRM, IDB, IFAD, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO,
Intelsat (nonsignatory user), Interpol, IOC, ITU, LAES, NAM, OAS,
OIC, OPANAL, OPCW, PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WHO,
WIPO, WMO, WTrO

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
(vacant)

chancery:  Suite 460, 4301 Connecticut Avenue NW, Washington, DC
20008

telephone:  [1] (202) 244-7488

FAX:  [1] (202) 244-5878

consulate(s) general:  Miami

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Daniel A. JOHNSON

embassy:  Dr. Sophie Redmondstraat 129, Paramaribo

mailing address:  Department of State, 3390 Paramaribo Place,
Washington, DC, 20521-3390

telephone:  [597] 472900

FAX:  [597] 420800

Flag description: five horizontal bands of green (top, double
width), white, red (quadruple width), white, and green (double
width); there is a large, yellow, five-pointed star centered in the
red band



Suriname    Economy

Economy - overview: The economy is dominated by the bauxite
industry, which accounts for more than 15% of GDP and 70% of export
earnings. After assuming power in the fall of 1996, the WIJDENBOSCH
government ended the structural adjustment program of the previous
government, claiming it was unfair to the poorer elements of
society. Tax revenues fell as old taxes lapsed and the government
failed to implement new tax alternatives. By the end of 1997, the
allocation of new Dutch development funds was frozen as Surinamese
Government relations with the Netherlands deteriorated. Economic
growth slowed in 1998, with decline in the mining, construction, and
utility sectors. Rampant government expenditures, poor tax
collection, a bloated civil service, and reduced foreign aid in 1999
contributed to the fiscal deficit, estimated at 11% of GDP. The
government sought to cover this deficit through monetary expansion,
which led to a dramatic increase in inflation and exchange rate
depreciation. Suriname's economic prospects for the medium term will
depend on renewed commitment to responsible monetary and fiscal
policies and to the introduction of structural reforms to liberalize
markets and promote competition. The new government of Ronald
VENETIAAN has begun an austerity program, raised taxes, and
attempted to control spending. the exchange rate has responded by
stabilizing. The Dutch Government has restarted the aid flow, which
will allow Suriname to access international development financing.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $1.48 billion (1999 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: -1% (1999 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $3,400 (1999 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  13%

industry:  22%

services:  65% (1998 est.)

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 78% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 100,000

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture NA%, industry NA%, services
NA%

Unemployment rate: 20% (1997)

Budget: revenues:  $393 million

expenditures:  $403 million, including capital expenditures of $34
million (1997 est.)

Industries: bauxite and gold mining, alumina production, lumbering,
food processing, fishing

Industrial production growth rate: 6.5% (1994 est.)

Electricity - production: 1.937 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  25.92%

hydro:  74.08%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 1.801 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: paddy rice, bananas, palm kernels, coconuts,
plantains, peanuts; beef, chickens; forest products; shrimp

Exports: $443 million (f.o.b., 1999)

Exports - commodities: alumina, crude oil, lumber, shrimp and fish,
rice, bananas

Exports - partners: US 23%, Norway 19%, Netherlands 11%, France,
Japan, UK (1999)

Imports: $525 million (f.o.b., 1999)

Imports - commodities: capital equipment, petroleum, foodstuffs,
cotton, consumer goods

Imports - partners: US 35%, Netherlands 15%, Trinidad and Tobago
12%, Japan, UK, Brazil (1999)

Debt - external: $512 million (2000 est.)

Economic aid - recipient: Netherlands provided $37 million for
project and program assistance, European Development Fund $4
million, Belgium $2 million (1998)

Currency: Surinamese guilder (SRG)

Currency code: SRG

Exchange rates: Surinamese guilders per US dollar - 2,178.50
(December 2000), 987.50 (December 1999), 401.00 (December 1998),
401.00 (December 1997), 401.26 (December 1996)

note:  beginning in July 1994, the central bank midpoint exchange
rate was unified and became market determined; during 1998, the
exchange rate splintered into four distinct rates; in January 1999
the government floated the guilder, but subsequently fixed it when
the black-market rate plunged; the government currently allows
trading within a band of SRG 500 around the official rate

Fiscal year: calendar year



Suriname    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 64,000 (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 4,090 (1997)

Telephone system: general assessment:  international facilities are
good

domestic:  microwave radio relay network

international:  satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat (Atlantic
Ocean)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 4, FM 13, shortwave 1 (1998)

Radios: 300,000 (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 3 (plus seven repeaters) (2000)

Televisions: 63,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .sr

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 2 (2000)

Internet users: 10,000 (2000)



Suriname    Transportation

Railways: total:  166 km (single track)

standard gauge:  80 km 1.435-m gauge

narrow gauge:  86 km 1.000-m gauge

note:  Suriname railroads are not in operation (2000)

Highways: total:  4,530 km

paved:  1,178 km

unpaved:  3,352 km (1996)

Waterways: 1,200 km

note:  most important means of transport; oceangoing vessels with
drafts ranging up to 7 m can navigate many of the principal waterways

Ports and harbors: Albina, Moengo, New Nickerie, Paramaribo,
Paranam, Wageningen

Merchant marine: total:  3 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 3,432
GRT/4,525 DWT

ships by type:  cargo 1, container 1, petroleum tanker 1 (2000 est.)

Airports: 46 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  5

over 3,047 m:  1

914 to 1,523 m:  1

under 914 m:  3 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  41

1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

914 to 1,523 m:  5

under 914 m:  35 (2000 est.)



Suriname    Military

Military branches: National Army (includes small Navy and Air Force
elements), Civil Police

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  121,656 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
71,344 (2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $8.5 million (FY97 est.)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 1.6% (FY97 est.)



Suriname    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: area disputed by French Guiana between
Riviere Litani and Riviere Marouini (both headwaters of the Lawa);
area disputed by Guyana between New (Upper Courantyne) and
Courantyne/Koetari [Kutari] rivers (all headwaters of the Courantyne)

Illicit drugs: transshipment point for South American drugs destined
for Europe and Brazil; transshipment point for arms-for-drugs dealing

======================================================================

@Svalbard





Svalbard    Introduction

Background: First discovered by the Norwegians in the 12th century,
the islands served as an international whaling base during the 17th
and 18th centuries. Norway's sovereignty was recognized in 1920;
five years later it officially took over the territory.



Svalbard    Geography

Location: Northern Europe, islands between the Arctic Ocean, Barents
Sea, Greenland Sea, and Norwegian Sea, north of Norway

Geographic coordinates: 78 00 N, 20 00 E

Map references: Arctic Region

Area: total:  62,049 sq km

land:  62,049 sq km

water:  0 sq km

note:  includes Spitsbergen and Bjornoya (Bear Island)

Area - comparative: slightly smaller than West Virginia

Land boundaries: 0 km

Coastline: 3,587 km

Maritime claims: exclusive fishing zone:  200 NM unilaterally
claimed by Norway but not recognized by Russia

territorial sea:  4 NM

Climate: arctic, tempered by warm North Atlantic Current; cool
summers, cold winters; North Atlantic Current flows along west and
north coasts of Spitsbergen, keeping water open and navigable most
of the year

Terrain: wild, rugged mountains; much of high land ice covered; west
coast clear of ice about one-half of the year; fjords along west and
north coasts

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Arctic Ocean 0 m

highest point:  Newtontoppen 1,717 m

Natural resources: coal, copper, iron ore, phosphate, zinc,
wildlife, fish

Land use: arable land:  0%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  0%

forests and woodland:  0%

other:  100% (no trees, and the only bushes are crowberry and
cloudberry)

Irrigated land: NA sq km

Natural hazards: ice floes often block up the entrance to Bellsund
(a transit point for coal export) on the west coast and occasionally
make parts of the northeastern coast inaccessible to maritime traffic

Environment - current issues: NA

Geography - note: northernmost part of the Kingdom of Norway;
consists of nine main islands; glaciers and snowfields cover 60% of
the total area



Svalbard    People

Population: 2,332 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  NA%

15-64 years:  NA%

65 years and over:  NA%

Population growth rate: -3.55% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: NA births/1,000 population

Death rate: NA deaths/1,000 population

Net migration rate: NA migrant(s)/1,000 population

Infant mortality rate: NA deaths/1,000 live births

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  NA years

male:  NA years

female:  NA years

Total fertility rate: NA children born/woman

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 0% (2001)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 0 (2001)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: 0 (2001)

Ethnic groups: Norwegian 55.4%, Russian and Ukrainian 44.3%, other
0.3% (1998)

Languages: Russian, Norwegian



Svalbard    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  none

conventional short form:  Svalbard (sometimes referred to as
Spitzbergen)

Dependency status: territory of Norway; administered by the Ministry
of Industry, Oslo, through a governor (sysselmann) residing in
Longyearbyen, Spitsbergen; by treaty (9 February 1920) sovereignty
was given to Norway

Government type: NA

Capital: Longyearbyen

Independence: none (territory of Norway)

National holiday: NA

Legal system: NA

Executive branch: chief of state:  King HARALD V of Norway (since 17
January 1991)

head of government:  Governor Morten RUUD (since NA November 1998)
and Assistant Governor Odd Redar HUMLEGAARD (since NA)

elections:  none; the monarch is hereditary; governor and assistant
governor responsible to the Polar Department of the Ministry of
Justice

International organization participation: none

Flag description: the flag of Norway is used



Svalbard    Economy

Economy - overview: Coal mining is the major economic activity on
Svalbard. The treaty of 9 February 1920 gives the 41 signatories
equal rights to exploit mineral deposits, subject to Norwegian
regulation. Although US, UK, Dutch, and Swedish coal companies have
mined in the past, the only companies still mining are Norwegian and
Russian. The settlements on Svalbard are essentially company towns.
The Norwegian state-owned coal company employs nearly 60% of the
Norwegian population on the island, runs many of the local services,
and provides most of the local infrastructure. There is also some
trapping of seal, polar bear, fox, and walrus.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $NA

GDP - real growth rate: NA%

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $NA

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): NA%

Labor force: NA

Budget: revenues:  $11.5 million

expenditures:  $11.5 million, including capital expenditures of $NA
(1998 est.)

Industrial production growth rate: NA%

Electricity - production: NA kWh

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  NA%

hydro:  NA%

nuclear:  NA%

other:  NA%

Electricity - consumption: NA kWh

Exports: $NA

Imports: $NA

Economic aid - recipient: $8.2 million from Norway (1998)

Currency: Norwegian krone (NOK)

Currency code: NOK

Exchange rates: Norwegian kroner per US dollar - 8.7784 (January
2001), 8.8018 (2000), 7.7992 (1999), 7.5451 (1998), 7.0734 (1997),
6.4498 (1996)



Svalbard    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: NA

Telephones - mobile cellular: NA

Telephone system: general assessment:  probably adequate

domestic:  local telephone service

international:  satellite earth station - 1 of unknown type (for
communication with Norwegian mainland only)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 1, FM 1 (plus 2 repeaters), shortwave 0
(1998)

Radios: NA

Television broadcast stations: NA

Televisions: NA

Internet country code: .sj

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 13 (Svalbard and Jan Mayen) (2000)

Internet users: NA



Svalbard    Transportation

Railways: 0 km

Highways: total:  NA km

paved:  NA km

unpaved:  NA km

Waterways: none

Ports and harbors: Barentsburg, Longyearbyen, Ny-Alesund, Pyramiden

Merchant marine: none (2000 est.)

Airports: 4 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  1

1,524 to 2,437 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  3

under 914 m:  3 (2000 est.)



Svalbard    Military

Military - note: demilitarized by treaty (9 February 1920)



Svalbard    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: focus of a maritime boundary dispute
between Norway and Russia

======================================================================

@Swaziland




Swaziland    Introduction

Background: Autonomy for the Swazis of southern Africa was
guaranteed by the British in the late 19th century; independence was
granted 1968. Student and labor unrest during the 1990s have
pressured the monarchy (one of the oldest on the continent) to
grudgingly allow political reform and greater democracy.



Swaziland    Geography

Location: Southern Africa, between Mozambique and South Africa

Geographic coordinates: 26 30 S, 31 30 E

Map references: Africa

Area: total:  17,363 sq km

land:  17,203 sq km

water:  160 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly smaller than New Jersey

Land boundaries: total:  535 km

border countries:  Mozambique 105 km, South Africa 430 km

Coastline: 0 km (landlocked)

Maritime claims: none (landlocked)

Climate: varies from tropical to near temperate

Terrain: mostly mountains and hills; some moderately sloping plains

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Great Usutu River 21 m

highest point:  Emlembe 1,862 m

Natural resources: asbestos, coal, clay, cassiterite, hydropower,
forests, small gold and diamond deposits, quarry stone, and talc

Land use: arable land:  11%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  62%

forests and woodland:  7%

other:  20% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 670 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: NA

Environment - current issues: limited supplies of potable water;
wildlife populations being depleted because of excessive hunting;
overgrazing; soil degradation; soil erosion

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Endangered Species, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer
Protection

signed, but not ratified:  Desertification, Law of the Sea

Geography - note: landlocked; almost completely surrounded by South
Africa



Swaziland    People

Population: 1,104,343

note:  estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
life expectancy, higher infant mortality and death rates, lower
population and growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  45.53% (male 250,327; female 252,479)

15-64 years:  51.88% (male 276,186; female 296,728)

65 years and over:  2.59% (male 11,687; female 16,936) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 1.83% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 40.12 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 21.84 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.03 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  0.99 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  0.93 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.69 male(s)/female

total population:  0.95 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 109.19 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  38.62 years

male:  37.86 years

female:  39.4 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 5.82 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 25.25% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 130,000 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: 7,100 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Swazi(s)

adjective:  Swazi

Ethnic groups: African 97%, European 3%

Religions: Protestant 55%, Muslim 10%, Roman Catholic 5%, indigenous
beliefs 30%

Languages: English (official, government business conducted in
English), siSwati (official)

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  76.7%

male:  78%

female:  75.6% (1995 est.)



Swaziland    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Kingdom of Swaziland

conventional short form:  Swaziland

Government type: monarchy; independent member of Commonwealth

Capital: Mbabane; note - Lobamba is the royal and legislative capital

Administrative divisions: 4 districts; Hhohho, Lubombo, Manzini,
Shiselweni

Independence: 6 September 1968 (from UK)

National holiday: Independence Day, 6 September (1968)

Constitution: none; constitution of 6 September 1968 was suspended
12 April 1973; a new constitution was promulgated 13 October 1978,
but was not formally presented to the people; since then a few more
outlines for a constitution have been compiled under the
Constitutional Review Commission (CRC), but so far none have been
accepted

Legal system: based on South African Roman-Dutch law in statutory
courts and Swazi traditional law and custom in traditional courts;
has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Suffrage: 18 years of age

Executive branch: chief of state:  King MSWATI III (since 25 April
1986)

head of government:  Prime Minister Sibusiso Barnabas DLAMINI (since
9 August 1996)

cabinet:  Cabinet recommended by the prime minister and confirmed by
the monarch

elections:  none; the monarch is hereditary; prime minister
appointed by the monarch

Legislative branch: bicameral Parliament or Libandla, an advisory
body, consists of the Senate (30 seats - 10 appointed by the House
of Assembly and 20 appointed by the monarch; members serve five-year
terms) and the House of Assembly (65 seats - 10 appointed by the
monarch and 55 elected by popular vote; members serve five-year
terms)

elections:  House of Assembly - last held 16 and 24 October 1998
(next to be held NA 2003)

election results:  House of Assembly - balloting is done on a
nonparty basis; candidates for election are nominated by the local
council of each constituency and for each constituency the three
candidates with the most votes in the first round of voting are
narrowed to a single winner by a second round

Judicial branch: High Court; Court of Appeal; judges for both courts
are appointed by the monarch

Political parties and leaders: Imbokodvo National Movement or INM
[leader NA]; Ngwane National Libertatory Congress or NNLC [Obed
DLAMINI, president]; People's United Democratic Movement or PUDEMO
[Mario MASUKU, president]; Swaziland National Front or SWANAFRO
[Elmond SHONGWE, president]; Swaziland Progressive Party or SPP [J.
J. NQUKU, president]; Swaziland United Front or SUF [Matsapa
SHONGWE, leader]

note:  political parties are banned by the constitution promulgated
on 13 October 1978; illegal parties are prohibited from holding
large public gatherings; the organizations listed are political
associations

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: ACP, AfDB, C, CCC, ECA,
FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF,
Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, ITU, NAM, OAU, OPCW, SACU, SADC, UN,
UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Mary Madzandza KANYA

chancery:  3400 International Drive NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone:  [1] (202) 362-6683

FAX:  [1] (202) 244-8059

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Gregory L. JOHNSON

embassy:  Central Bank Building, Warner Street, Mbabane

mailing address:  P. O. Box 199, Mbabane

telephone:  [268] 404-6441 through 404-6445

FAX:  [268] 404-5959

Flag description: three horizontal bands of blue (top), red (triple
width), and blue; the red band is edged in yellow; centered in the
red band is a large black and white shield covering two spears and a
staff decorated with feather tassels, all placed horizontally



Swaziland    Economy

Economy - overview: In this small landlocked economy, subsistence
agriculture occupies more than 60% of the population. Manufacturing
features a number of agroprocessing factories. Mining has declined
in importance in recent years: diamond mines have shut down because
of the depletion of easily accessible reserves; high-grade iron ore
deposits were depleted by 1978; and health concerns have cut world
demand for asbestos. Exports of soft drink concentrate, sugar, and
wood pulp are the main earners of hard currency. Surrounded by South
Africa, except for a short border with Mozambique, Swaziland is
heavily dependent on South Africa from which it receives four-fifths
of its imports and to which it sends two-thirds of its exports.
Remittances from the Southern African Customs Union and Swazi
workers in South African mines substantially supplement domestically
earned income. The government is trying to improve the atmosphere
for foreign investment. Overgrazing, soil depletion, drought, and
sometimes floods persist as problems for the future. Prospects for
2001 are strengthened by government millennium projects for a new
convention center, additional hotels, an amusement park, a new
airport, and stepped-up roadbuilding and factory construction plans.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $4.4 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 2.4% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $4,000 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  10%

industry:  46%

services:  44% (1998 est.)

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 6.4% (2000 est.)

Labor force: NA

Labor force - by occupation: private sector 70%, public sector 30%

Unemployment rate: 22% (1995 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $400 million

expenditures:  $450 million, including capital expenditures of $115
million (FY96/97)

Industries: mining (coal and asbestos), wood pulp, sugar, soft drink
concentrates

Industrial production growth rate: 3.7% (FY95/96)

Electricity - production: 375 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  53.33%

hydro:  46.67%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 198 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 852 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 701 million kWh

note:  supplied by South Africa (1999)

Agriculture - products: sugarcane, cotton, corn, tobacco, rice,
citrus, pineapples, sorghum, peanuts; cattle, goats, sheep

Exports: $881 million (f.o.b., 2000)

Exports - commodities: soft drink concentrates, sugar, wood pulp,
cotton yarn, refrigerators, citrus and canned fruit

Exports - partners: South Africa 65%, EU 12%, Mozambique 11%, US 5%
(1998)

Imports: $928 million (f.o.b., 2000)

Imports - commodities: motor vehicles, machinery, transport
equipment, foodstuffs, petroleum products, chemicals

Imports - partners: South Africa 84%, EU 5%, Japan 2%, Singapore 2%
(1998)

Debt - external: $281 million (2000 est.)

Economic aid - recipient: $55 million (1995)

Currency: lilangeni (SZL)

Currency code: SZL

Exchange rates: emalangeni per US dollar - 7.7803 (January 2001),
6.9056 (2000), 6.1087 (1999), 5.4807 (1998), 4.6032 (1997), 4.2706
(1996); note - the Swazi lilangeni is at par with the South African
rand; emalangeni is the plural form of lilangeni

Fiscal year: 1 April - 31 March



Swaziland    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 33,500 (2000)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 30,000 (2000)

Telephone system: general assessment:  not a modern system

domestic:  system consists of carrier-equipped, open-wire lines and
low-capacity, microwave radio relay

international:  satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 7, FM 6 (2000)

Radios: 155,000 (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 10 (2000)

Televisions: 21,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .sz

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 3 (2000)

Internet users: 4,000 (2000)



Swaziland    Transportation

Railways: total:  297 km; note - includes 71 km which are not in use

narrow gauge:  297 km 1.067-m gauge

Highways: total:  3,000 km

paved:  850 km

unpaved:  2,150 km (1997)

Waterways: none

Ports and harbors: none

Airports: 18 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  1

2,438 to 3,047 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  17

914 to 1,523 m:  7

under 914 m:  10 (2000 est.)



Swaziland    Military

Military branches: Umbutfo Swaziland Defense Force (Army), Royal
Swaziland Police Force

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  248,084 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
143,618 (2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $19.198 million (FY00/01)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 4.75% (FY00/01)



Swaziland    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: Swaziland has asked South Africa to open
negotiations on reincorporating some nearby South African
territories that are populated by ethnic Swazis or that were long
ago part of the Swazi Kingdom

======================================================================

@Sweden




Sweden    Introduction

Background: A military power during the 17th century, Sweden has not
participated in any war in almost two centuries. An armed neutrality
was preserved in both World Wars. Sweden's long-successful economic
formula of a capitalist system interlarded with substantial welfare
elements has recently been undermined by high unemployment, rising
maintenance costs, and a declining position in world markets.
Indecision over the country's role in the political and economic
integration of Europe caused Sweden not to join the EU until 1995,
and to forgo the introduction of the euro in 1999.



Sweden    Geography

Location: Northern Europe, bordering the Baltic Sea, Gulf of
Bothnia, Kattegat, and Skagerrak, between Finland and Norway

Geographic coordinates: 62 00 N, 15 00 E

Map references: Europe

Area: total:  449,964 sq km

land:  410,934 sq km

water:  39,030 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly larger than California

Land boundaries: total:  2,205 km

border countries:  Finland 586 km, Norway 1,619 km

Coastline: 3,218 km

Maritime claims: continental shelf:  200-m depth or to the depth of
exploitation

exclusive economic zone:  agreed boundaries or midlines

territorial sea:  12 NM (adjustments made to return a portion of
straits to high seas)

Climate: temperate in south with cold, cloudy winters and cool,
partly cloudy summers; subarctic in north

Terrain: mostly flat or gently rolling lowlands; mountains in west

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Baltic Sea 0 m

highest point:  Kebnekaise 2,111 m

Natural resources: zinc, iron ore, lead, copper, silver, timber,
uranium, hydropower

Land use: arable land:  7%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  1%

forests and woodland:  68%

other:  24% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 1,150 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: ice floes in the surrounding waters, especially in
the Gulf of Bothnia, can interfere with maritime traffic

Environment - current issues: acid rain damaging soils and lakes;
pollution of the North Sea and the Baltic Sea

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Air Pollution,
Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air Pollution-Persistent Organic
Pollutants, Air Pollution-Sulphur 85, Air Pollution-Sulphur 94, Air
Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds, Antarctic-Environmental
Protocol, Antarctic-Marine Living Resources, Antarctic Treaty,
Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species,
Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine
Dumping, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution,
Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling

signed, but not ratified:  Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol

Geography - note: strategic location along Danish Straits linking
Baltic and North Seas



Sweden    People

Population: 8,875,053 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  18.19% (male 828,308; female 786,353)

15-64 years:  64.53% (male 2,911,949; female 2,814,730)

65 years and over:  17.28% (male 649,296; female 884,417) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 0.02% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 9.91 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 10.61 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 0.91 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.06 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1.03 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.73 male(s)/female

total population:  0.98 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 3.47 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  79.71 years

male:  77.07 years

female:  82.5 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 1.53 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 0.08% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 3,000 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: less than 100 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Swede(s)

adjective:  Swedish

Ethnic groups: indigenous population: Swedes and Finnish and Sami
minorities; foreign-born or first-generation immigrants: Finns,
Yugoslavs, Danes, Norwegians, Greeks, Turks

Religions: Lutheran 87%, Roman Catholic, Orthodox, Baptist, Muslim,
Jewish, Buddhist

Languages: Swedish

note:  small Lapp- and Finnish-speaking minorities

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  99% (1979 est.)

male:  NA%

female:  NA%



Sweden    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Kingdom of Sweden

conventional short form:  Sweden

local long form:  Konungariket Sverige

local short form:  Sverige

Government type: constitutional monarchy

Capital: Stockholm

Administrative divisions: 21 counties (lan, singular and plural);
Blekinge, Dalarnas, Gavleborgs, Gotlands, Hallands, Jamtlands,
Jonkopings, Kalmar, Kronobergs, Norrbottens, Orebro, Ostergotlands,
Skane, Sodermanlands, Stockholms, Uppsala, Varmlands, Vasterbottens,
Vasternorrlands, Vastmanlands, Vastra Gotalands

Independence: 6 June 1523 (Gustav VASA elected king)

National holiday: Flag Day, 6 June

Constitution: 1 January 1975

Legal system: civil law system influenced by customary law; accepts
compulsory ICJ jurisdiction, with reservations

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  King CARL XVI GUSTAF (since 19
September 1973); Heir Apparent Princess VICTORIA Ingrid Alice
Desiree, daughter of the monarch (born 14 July 1977)

head of government:  Prime Minister Goran PERSSON (since 21 March
1996)

cabinet:  Cabinet appointed by the prime minister

elections:  the monarch is hereditary; prime minister elected by the
Parliament; election last held NA September 1998 (next to be held NA
2002)

election results:  Goran PERSSON reelected prime minister with 131
out of 349 votes

Legislative branch: unicameral Parliament or Riksdag (349 seats;
members are elected by popular vote on a proportional representation
basis to serve four-year terms)

elections:  last held 20 September 1998 (next to be held NA
September 2002)

election results:  percent of vote by party - Social Democrats
36.5%, Moderates 22.7%, Left Party 12%, Christian Democrats 11.8%,
Center Party 5.1%, Liberal Party 4.7%, Greens 4.5%; seats by party -
Social Democrats 131, Moderates 82, Left Party 43, Christian
Democrats 42, Center Party 18, Liberal Party 17, Greens 16

Judicial branch: Supreme Court or Hogsta Domstolen (judges are
appointed by the prime minister and the cabinet)

Political parties and leaders: Center Party [Lennart DALEUS];
Christian Democratic Party [Alf SVENSSON]; Communist Workers' Party
[Rolf HAGEL]; Green Party [no formal leader but party spokesperson
is Briger SCHLAUG]; Left Party or VP (formerly Communist) [Gudrun
SCHYMAN]; Liberal People's Party [Lars LEIJONBORG]; Moderate Party
(conservative) [Bo LUNDGREN]; New Democracy Party [Vivianne
FRANZEN]; Social Democratic Party [Goran PERSSON]

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: AfDB, AsDB, Australia
Group, BIS, CBSS, CCC, CE, CERN, EAPC, EBRD, ECE, EIB, ESA, EU, FAO,
G- 6, G- 9, G-10, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA,
IEA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat,
Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO, ITU, MINURSO, NAM (guest), NC, NEA, NIB,
NSG, OAS (observer), OECD, OPCW, OSCE, PCA, PFP, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO,
UNHCR, UNIDO, UNIKOM, UNITAR, UNMEE, UNMIBH, UNMIK, UNMOGIP, UNMOP,
UNOMIG, UNTAET, UNTSO, UPU, WEU (observer), WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO,
WTrO, ZC

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Jan ELIASSON

chancery:  1501 M Street NW, Washington, DC 20005-1702

telephone:  [1] (202) 467-2600

FAX:  [1] (202) 467-2699

consulate(s) general:  Los Angeles and New York

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Lyndon Lowell OLSON, Jr.

embassy:  Dag Hammarskjolds VAG 31, SE-11589 Stockholm

mailing address:  American Embassy Stockholm, Department of State,
Washington, DC 20521-5750 (pouch)

telephone:  [46] (8) 783 53 00

FAX:  [46] (8) 661 19 64

Flag description: blue with a yellow cross that extends to the edges
of the flag; the vertical part of the cross is shifted to the hoist
side in the style of the Dannebrog (Danish flag)



Sweden    Economy

Economy - overview: Aided by peace and neutrality for the whole
twentieth century, Sweden has achieved an enviable standard of
living under a mixed system of high-tech capitalism and extensive
welfare benefits. It has a modern distribution system, excellent
internal and external communications, and a skilled labor force.
Timber, hydropower, and iron ore constitute the resource base of an
economy heavily oriented toward foreign trade. Privately owned firms
account for about 90% of industrial output, of which the engineering
sector accounts for 50% of output and exports. Agriculture accounts
for only 2% of GDP and 2% of the jobs. In recent years, however,
this extraordinarily favorable picture has been somewhat clouded by
budgetary difficulties, high unemployment, and a gradual loss of
competitiveness in international markets. Sweden has harmonized its
economic policies with those of the EU, which it joined at the start
of 1995. GDP growth is forecast for 4% in 2001.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $197 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 4.3% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $22,200 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  2.2%

industry:  27.9%

services:  69.9% (1999)

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:
3.7%

highest 10%:  20.1% (1992)

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 1.2% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 4.4 million (2000 est.)

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture 2%, industry 24%, services
74% (2000 est.)

Unemployment rate: 6% (2000 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $133 billion

expenditures:  $125.2 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
(2000 est.)

Industries: iron and steel, precision equipment (bearings, radio and
telephone parts, armaments), wood pulp and paper products, processed
foods, motor vehicles

Industrial production growth rate: 7% (2000 est.)

Electricity - production: 146.633 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  5.53%

hydro:  47.24%

nuclear:  45.42%

other:  1.81% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 128.819 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 15.9 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 8.35 billion kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: grains, sugar beets, potatoes; meat, milk

Exports: $95.5 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Exports - commodities: machinery 35%, motor vehicles, paper
products, pulp and wood, iron and steel products, chemicals

Exports - partners: EU 55% (Germany 11%, UK 10%, Denmark 6%, Finland
5%, France 5%), US 9%, Norway 8% (1999)

Imports: $80 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Imports - commodities: machinery, petroleum and petroleum products,
chemicals, motor vehicles, iron and steel; foodstuffs, clothing

Imports - partners: EU 67% (Germany 18%, UK 10%, Denmark 7%, France
6%), Norway 8%, US 6% (1999)

Debt - external: $66.5 billion (1994)

Economic aid - donor: ODA, $1.7 billion (1997)

Currency: Swedish krona (SEK)

Currency code: SEK

Exchange rates: Swedish kronor per US dollar - 9.4669 (January
2001), 9.1622 (2000), 8.2624 (1999), 7.9499 (1998), 7.6349 (1997),
6.7060 (1996)

Fiscal year: calendar year



Sweden    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 6.017 million (December 1998)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 3.835 million (October 1998)

Telephone system: general assessment:  excellent domestic and
international facilities; automatic system

domestic:  coaxial and multiconductor cables carry most of the voice
traffic; parallel microwave radio relay systems carry some
additional telephone channels

international:  5 submarine coaxial cables; satellite earth stations
- 1 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean), 1 Eutelsat, and 1 Inmarsat (Atlantic
and Indian Ocean regions); note - Sweden shares the Inmarsat earth
station with the other Nordic countries (Denmark, Finland, Iceland,
and Norway)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 1, FM 265, shortwave 1 (1998)

Radios: 8.25 million (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 169 (plus 1,299 repeaters) (1995)

Televisions: 4.6 million (1997)

Internet country code: .se

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 29 (2000)

Internet users: 4.5 million (2000)



Sweden    Transportation

Railways: total:  12,821 km (includes 3,594 km of privately owned
railways)

standard gauge:  12,821 km 1.435-m gauge (7,918 km electrified and
1,152 km double track) (1998)

Highways: total:  210,760 km

paved:  162,707 km (including 1,428 km of expressways)

unpaved:  48,053 km (1999)

Waterways: 2,052 km

note:  navigable for small steamers and barges

Pipelines: natural gas 84 km

Ports and harbors: Gavle, Goteborg, Halmstad, Helsingborg,
Hudiksvall, Kalmar, Karlshamn, Malmo, Solvesborg, Stockholm,
Sundsvall

Merchant marine: total:  167 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
2,205,370 GRT/1,663,091 DWT

ships by type:  bulk 5, cargo 28, chemical tanker 31, combination
ore/oil 4, liquefied gas 1, passenger 1, petroleum tanker 29,
railcar carrier 1, roll on/roll off 40, short-sea passenger 4,
specialized tanker 6, vehicle carrier 17 (2000 est.)

Airports: 255 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  147

over 3,047 m:  3

2,438 to 3,047 m:  11

1,524 to 2,437 m:  80

914 to 1,523 m:  28

under 914 m:  25 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  108

914 to 1,523 m:  5

under 914 m:  103 (2000 est.)

Heliports: 1 (2000 est.)



Sweden    Military

Military branches: Swedish Army, Royal Swedish Navy, Swedish Air
Force

Military manpower - military age: 19 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  2,062,566 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
1,803,995 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  51,506
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $5 billion (FY98)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 2.1% (FY98)



Sweden    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

======================================================================

@Switzerland




Switzerland    Introduction

Background: Switzerland's independence and neutrality have long been
honored by the major European powers and Switzerland was not
involved in either of the two World Wars. The political and economic
integration of Europe over the past half century, as well as
Switzerland's role in many UN and international organizations, may
be rendering obsolete the country's concern for neutrality.



Switzerland    Geography

Location: Central Europe, east of France, north of Italy

Geographic coordinates: 47 00 N, 8 00 E

Map references: Europe

Area: total:  41,290 sq km

land:  39,770 sq km

water:  1,520 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly less than twice the size of New Jersey

Land boundaries: total:  1,852 km

border countries:  Austria 164 km, France 573 km, Italy 740 km,
Liechtenstein 41 km, Germany 334 km

Coastline: 0 km (landlocked)

Maritime claims: none (landlocked)

Climate: temperate, but varies with altitude; cold, cloudy,
rainy/snowy winters; cool to warm, cloudy, humid summers with
occasional showers

Terrain: mostly mountains (Alps in south, Jura in northwest) with a
central plateau of rolling hills, plains, and large lakes

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Lake Maggiore 195 m

highest point:  Dufourspitze 4,634 m

Natural resources: hydropower potential, timber, salt

Land use: arable land:  10%

permanent crops:  2%

permanent pastures:  28%

forests and woodland:  32%

other:  28% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 250 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: avalanches, landslides, flash floods

Environment - current issues: air pollution from vehicle emissions
and open-air burning; acid rain; water pollution from increased use
of agricultural fertilizers; loss of biodiversity

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Air Pollution,
Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air Pollution-Persistent Organic
Pollutants, Air Pollution-Sulphur 85, Air Pollution-Sulphur 94, Air
Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds, Antarctic Treaty,
Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species,
Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Marine Dumping, Marine
Life Conservation, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship
Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling

signed, but not ratified:  Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Climate
Change-Kyoto Protocol, Law of the Sea

Geography - note: landlocked; crossroads of northern and southern
Europe; along with southeastern France and northern Italy, contains
the highest elevations in Europe



Switzerland    People

Population: 7,283,274 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  16.97% (male 634,030; female 601,929)

15-64 years:  67.73% (male 2,505,450; female 2,427,408)

65 years and over:  15.3% (male 453,366; female 661,091) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 0.27% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 10.12 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 8.77 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 1.37 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1.03 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.69 male(s)/female

total population:  0.97 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 4.48 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  79.73 years

male:  76.85 years

female:  82.76 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 1.47 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 0.46% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 17,000 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: 150 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Swiss (singular and plural)

adjective:  Swiss

Ethnic groups: German 65%, French 18%, Italian 10%, Romansch 1%,
other 6%

Religions: Roman Catholic 46.1%, Protestant 40%, other 5%, none 8.9%
(1990)

Languages: German (official) 63.7%, French (official) 19.2%, Italian
(official) 7.6%, Romansch 0.6%, other 8.9%

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  99% (1980 est.)

male:  NA%

female:  NA%



Switzerland    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Swiss Confederation

conventional short form:  Switzerland

local long form:  Schweizerische Eidgenossenschaft (German),
Confederation Suisse (French), Confederazione Svizzera (Italian)

local short form:  Schweiz (German), Suisse (French), Svizzera
(Italian)

Government type: federal republic

Capital: Bern

Administrative divisions: 26 cantons (cantons, singular - canton in
French; cantoni, singular - cantone in Italian; kantone, singular -
kanton in German); Aargau, Ausser-Rhoden, Basel-Landschaft,
Basel-Stadt, Bern, Fribourg, Geneve, Glarus, Graubunden,
Inner-Rhoden, Jura, Luzern, Neuchatel, Nidwalden, Obwalden, Sankt
Gallen, Schaffhausen, Schwyz, Solothurn, Thurgau, Ticino, Uri,
Valais, Vaud, Zug, Zurich

Independence: 1 August 1291 (Founding of the Swiss Confederation)

National holiday: Founding of the Swiss Confederation, 1 August
(1291)

Constitution: 29 May 1874

Legal system: civil law system influenced by customary law; judicial
review of legislative acts, except with respect to federal decrees
of general obligatory character; accepts compulsory ICJ
jurisdiction, with reservations

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Moritz LEUENBERGER
(since 1 January 2001); Vice President Kaspar VILLIGER (since 1
January 2001); note - the president is both the chief of state and
head of government

head of government:  President Moritz LEUENBERGER (since 1 January
2001); Vice President Kaspar VILLIGER (since 1 January 2001); note -
the president is both the chief of state and head of government

cabinet:  Federal Council or Bundesrat (in German), Conseil Federal
(in French), Consiglio Federale (in Italian) elected by the Federal
Assembly from among its own members for a four-year term

elections:  president and vice president elected by the Federal
Assembly from among the members of the Federal Council for one-year
terms that run concurrently; election last held 6 December 2000
(next to be held NA December 2001)

election results:  Moritz LEUENBERGER elected president; percent of
Federal Assembly vote - 76%; Kaspar VILLIGER elected vice president;
percent of legislative vote - 72%

Legislative branch: bicameral Federal Assembly or Bundesversammlung
(in German), Assemblee Federale (in French), Assemblea Federale (in
Italian) consists of the Council of States or Standerat (in German),
Conseil des Etats (in French), Consiglio degli Stati (in Italian)
(46 seats - members serve four-year terms) and the National Council
or Nationalrat (in German), Conseil National (in French), Consiglio
Nazionale (in Italian) (200 seats - members are elected by popular
vote on a basis of proportional representation to serve four-year
terms)

elections:  Council of States - last held in 1999 (each canton
determines when the next election will be held); National Council -
last held 24 October 1999 (next to be held NA October 2003)

election results:  Council of States - percent of vote by party -
NA%; seats by party - FDP 18, CVP 15, SVP 7, SPS 6; National Council
- percent of vote by party - SPS 22.5%, SVP 22.6%, FDP 19.9%, CVP
15.8%, other small parties all under 5%; seats by party - SPS 51,
SVP 44, FDP 43, CVP 35, Greens 9, other small parties 18

Judicial branch: Federal Supreme Court (judges elected for six-year
terms by the Federal Assembly)

Political parties and leaders: Christian Democratic People's Party
(Christichdemokratische Volkspartei der Schweiz or CVP, Parti
Democrate-Chretien Suisse or PDC, Partito Democratico-Cristiano
Popolare Svizzero or PDC, Partida Cristiandemocratica dalla Svizra
or PCD) [Adalbert DURRER, president]; Green Party (Grune Partei der
Schweiz or Grune, Parti Ecologiste Suisse or Les Verts, Partito
Ecologista Svizzero or I Verdi, Partida Ecologica Svizra or La
Verda) [Ruedi BAUMANN, president]; Radical Free Democratic Party
(Freisinnig-Demokratische Partei der Schweiz or FDP, Parti
Radical-Democratique Suisse or PRD, Partitio Liberal-Radicale
Svizzero or PLR) [Franz STEINEGGER, president]; Social Democratic
Party (Sozialdemokratische Partei der Schweiz or SPS, Parti
Socialist Suisse or PSS, Partito Socialista Svizzero or PSS, Partida
Socialdemocratica de la Svizra or PSS) [Christiane BRUNNER,
president]; Swiss People's Party (Schweizerische Volkspartei or SVP,
Union Democratique du Centre or UDC, Unione Democratica de Centro or
UDC, Uniun Democratica dal Center or UDC) [Ueli MAURER, president];
and other minor parties

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: ACCT, AfDB, AsDB,
Australia Group, BIS, CCC, CE, CERN, EAPC, EBRD, ECE, EFTA, ESA,
FAO, G-10, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IEA, IFAD,
IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM,
ISO, ITU, LAIA (observer), MONUC, NAM (guest), NEA, NSG, OAS
(observer), OECD, OPCW, OSCE, PCA, PFP, UN (observer), UNCTAD,
UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNITAR, UNMEE, UNMIBH, UNMIK, UNMOP, UNOMIG,
UNTSO, UNU, UPU, WCL, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO, ZC

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Alfred DEFAGO

chancery:  2900 Cathedral Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone:  [1] (202) 745-7900

FAX:  [1] (202) 387-2564

consulate(s) general:  Atlanta, Chicago, Houston, Los Angeles, New
York, and San Francisco

consulate(s):  Boston

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
J. Richard FREDERICKS

embassy:  Jubilaeumstrasse 93, 3001 Bern

mailing address:  use embassy street address

telephone:  [41] (31) 357 70 11

FAX:  [41] (31) 357 73 44

Flag description: red square with a bold, equilateral white cross in
the center that does not extend to the edges of the flag



Switzerland    Economy

Economy - overview: Switzerland, a prosperous and stable modern
market economy with a per capita GDP 20% above that of the big
western European economies, experienced solid growth of 3% in 2000,
but growth is expected to fall back to about 2% in 2001. The Swiss
in recent years have brought their economic practices largely into
conformity with the EU's to enhance their international
competitiveness. Although the Swiss are not pursuing full EU
membership in the near term, in 1999 Bern and Brussels signed
agreements to further liberalize trade ties, and the agreements
should come into force in 2001. Switzerland is still considered a
safe haven for investors, because it has maintained a degree of bank
secrecy and has kept up the franc's long-term external value.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $207 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 3% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $28,600 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  2.8%

industry:  31.1%

services:  66.1% (1995)

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:
2.8%

highest 10%:  25.2% (1992)

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 1.5% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 3.9 million (964,000 foreign workers, mostly Italian)
(1998 est.)

Labor force - by occupation: services 69.1%, industry 26.3%,
agriculture 4.6% (1998 est.)

Unemployment rate: 1.9% (2000 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $32.66 billion

expenditures:  $34.89 billion, including capital expenditures of
$2.3 billion (1998 est.)

Industries: machinery, chemicals, watches, textiles, precision
instruments

Industrial production growth rate: 8.6% (2000 est.)

Electricity - production: 66.768 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  3.44%

hydro:  59.16%

nuclear:  35.43%

other:  1.97% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 51.862 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 31.955 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 21.723 billion kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: grains, fruits, vegetables; meat, eggs

Exports: $91.3 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Exports - commodities: machinery, chemicals, metals, watches,
agricultural products

Exports - partners: EU 65.8% (Germany 22.6%, France 9.2%, Italy
8.0%, UK 5.5%, Austria 3.2%), US 12.4%, Japan 4.0% (1999)

Imports: $91.6 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Imports - commodities: machinery, chemicals, vehicles, metals;
agricultural products, textiles

Imports - partners: EU 77.7% (Germany 31.0%, France 12.0%, Italy
9.7%, Netherlands 5.1%, UK 5.7%), US 7.1%, Japan 2.9% (1999)

Debt - external: $NA

Economic aid - donor: ODA, $1.1 billion (1995)

Currency: Swiss franc (CHF)

Currency code: CHF

Exchange rates: Swiss francs per US dollar - 1.6303 (January 2001),
1.6888 (2000), 1.5022 (1999), 1.4498 (1998), 1.4513 (1997), 1.2360
(1996)

Fiscal year: calendar year



Switzerland    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 4.82 million (1998)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 1.967 million (1999)

Telephone system: general assessment:  excellent domestic and
international services

domestic:  extensive cable and microwave radio relay networks

international:  satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat (Atlantic
Ocean and Indian Ocean)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 4, FM 113 (plus many low power
stations), shortwave 2 (1998)

Radios: 7.1 million (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 115 (plus 1,919 repeaters) (1995)

Televisions: 3.31 million (1997)

Internet country code: .ch

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 44 (Switzerland and
Liechtenstein) (2000)

Internet users: 2.4 million (2000)



Switzerland    Transportation

Railways: total:  4,492 km (1,564 km double track)

standard gauge:  3,317 km 1.435-m gauge (3,288 km electrified)

narrow gauge:  1,165 km 1.000-m gauge (1,165 km electrified); 10 km
0.800-m gauge (1998)

Highways: total:  71,059 km (including 1,638 km of expressways)

paved:  71,059 km

unpaved:  0 km (1999)

Waterways: 65 km

note:  The Rhine carries heavy traffic on the Basel-Rheinfelden and
Schaffhausen-Bodensee stretches; there are also 12 navigable lakes

Pipelines: crude oil 314 km; natural gas 1,506 km

Ports and harbors: Basel

Merchant marine: total:  24 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
435,966 GRT/780,458 DWT

ships by type:  bulk 12, cargo 6, chemical tanker 5, petroleum
tanker 1

note:  includes some foreign-owned ships registered here as a flag
of convenience: UK 1 (2000 est.)

Airports: 67 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  42

over 3,047 m:  3

2,438 to 3,047 m:  4

1,524 to 2,437 m:  13

914 to 1,523 m:  7

under 914 m:  15 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  25

under 914 m:  25 (2000 est.)



Switzerland    Military

Military branches: Army, Air Force, Frontier Guards, Fortification
Guards

Military manpower - military age: 20 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  1,849,034 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
1,570,918 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  42,597
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $3.1 billion (FY98)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 1.2% (FY98)



Switzerland    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

Illicit drugs: because of more stringent government regulations,
used significantly less as a money-laundering center; transit
country for and consumer of South American cocaine and Southwest
Asian heroin

======================================================================

@Syria




Syria    Introduction

Background: Following the breakup of the Ottoman Empire during World
War I, Syria was administered by the French until independence in
1946. In the 1967 Arab-Israeli War, Syria lost the Golan Heights to
Israel. Since 1976, Syrian troops have been stationed in Lebanon,
ostensibly in a peacekeeping capacity. In recent years, Syria and
Israel have held occasional peace talks over the return of the Golan
Heights.



Syria    Geography

Location: Middle East, bordering the Mediterranean Sea, between
Lebanon and Turkey

Geographic coordinates: 35 00 N, 38 00 E

Map references: Middle East

Area: total:  185,180 sq km

land:  184,050 sq km

water:  1,130 sq km

note:  includes 1,295 sq km of Israeli-occupied territory

Area - comparative: slightly larger than North Dakota

Land boundaries: total:  2,253 km

border countries:  Iraq 605 km, Israel 76 km, Jordan 375 km, Lebanon
375 km, Turkey 822 km

Coastline: 193 km

Maritime claims: contiguous zone:  41 NM

territorial sea:  35 NM

Climate: mostly desert; hot, dry, sunny summers (June to August) and
mild, rainy winters (December to February) along coast; cold weather
with snow or sleet periodically hitting Damascus

Terrain: primarily semiarid and desert plateau; narrow coastal
plain; mountains in west

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  unnamed location near Lake
Tiberias -200 m

highest point:  Mount Hermon 2,814 m

Natural resources: petroleum, phosphates, chrome and manganese ores,
asphalt, iron ore, rock salt, marble, gypsum, hydropower

Land use: arable land:  28%

permanent crops:  4%

permanent pastures:  43%

forests and woodland:  3%

other:  22% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 9,060 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: dust storms, sandstorms

Environment - current issues: deforestation; overgrazing; soil
erosion; desertification; water pollution from dumping of raw sewage
and wastes from petroleum refining; inadequate supplies of potable
water

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Desertification, Hazardous Wastes, Nuclear Test Ban,
Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands

signed, but not ratified:  Environmental Modification

Geography - note: there are 42 Israeli settlements and civilian land
use sites in the Israeli-occupied Golan Heights (August 1999 est.)



Syria    People

Population: 16,728,808

note:  in addition, there are about 38,200 people living in the
Israeli-occupied Golan Heights - 18,200 Arabs (16,500 Druze and
1,700 Alawites) and about 20,000 Israeli settlers (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  39.92% (male 3,440,060; female 3,238,576)

15-64 years:  56.87% (male 4,868,816; female 4,644,870)

65 years and over:  3.21% (male 261,036; female 275,450) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 2.54% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 30.64 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 5.21 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.06 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.06 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.95 male(s)/female

total population:  1.05 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 33.8 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  68.77 years

male:  67.63 years

female:  69.98 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 3.95 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 0.01% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: NA

HIV/AIDS - deaths: NA

Nationality: noun:  Syrian(s)

adjective:  Syrian

Ethnic groups: Arab 90.3%, Kurds, Armenians, and other 9.7%

Religions: Sunni Muslim 74%, Alawite, Druze, and other Muslim sects
16%, Christian (various sects) 10%, Jewish (tiny communities in
Damascus, Al Qamishli, and Aleppo)

Languages: Arabic (official); Kurdish, Armenian, Aramaic, Circassian
widely understood; French, English somewhat understood

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  70.8%

male:  85.7%

female:  55.8% (1997 est.)



Syria    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Syrian Arab Republic

conventional short form:  Syria

local long form:  Al Jumhuriyah al Arabiyah as Suriyah

local short form:  Suriyah

former:  United Arab Republic (with Egypt)

Government type: republic under military regime since March 1963

Capital: Damascus

Administrative divisions: 14 provinces (muhafazat, singular -
muhafazah); Al Hasakah, Al Ladhiqiyah, Al Qunaytirah, Ar Raqqah, As
Suwayda', Dar'a, Dayr az Zawr, Dimashq, Halab, Hamah, Hims, Idlib,
Rif Dimashq, Tartus

Independence: 17 April 1946 (from League of Nations mandate under
French administration)

National holiday: Independence Day, 17 April (1946)

Constitution: 13 March 1973

Legal system: based on Islamic law and civil law system; special
religious courts; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Bashar al-ASAD (since
17 July 2000); Vice Presidents Abd al-Halim ibn Said KHADDAM (since
11 March 1984) and Muhammad Zuhayr MASHARIQA (since 11 March 1984)

head of government:  Prime Minister Muhammad Mustafa MIRU (since 13
March 2000), Deputy Prime Ministers Lt. Gen. Mustafa TALAS (since 11
March 1984), Khalid RA'D (since 13 March 2000), Muhammad NAJI 'UTRI
(since 13 March 2000)

cabinet:  Council of Ministers appointed by the president

elections:  president elected by popular vote for a seven-year term;
referendum/election last held 10 July 2000 - after the death of
President Hafez al-ASAD, father of Bashar al-ASAD - (next to be held
NA 2007); vice presidents appointed by the president; prime minister
and deputy prime ministers appointed by the president

election results:  Bashar al-ASAD elected president; percent of vote
- Bashar al-ASAD 97.29%

note:  Hafiz al-ASAD died 10 June 2000; 20 June 2000 the Ba'th Party
nominated Bashar al-ASAD for president and presented his name to the
People's Council 25 June 2000

Legislative branch: unicameral People's Council or Majlis al-shaab
(250 seats; members elected by popular vote to serve four-year terms)

elections:  last held 30 November-1 December 1998 (next to be held
NA 2002)

election results:  percent of vote by party - NPF 67%, non-NPF 33%;
seats by party - NPF 167, independents 83; note - the constitution
guarantees that the Ba'th Party (part of the NPF alliance) receive
one-half of the seats

Judicial branch: Supreme Constitutional Court (justices are
appointed for four-year terms by the president); High Judicial
Council; Court of Cassation; State Security Courts

Political parties and leaders: National Progressive Front or NPF
(includes the Ba'th Party, ASU, Arab Socialist Party, Socialist
Unionist Democratic Party, ASP, SCP) [President Bashar al-ASAD];
Arab Socialist Renaissance (Ba'th) Party (governing party) [Bashar
al-ASAD, secretary general of the party, and chairman of the
National Progressive Front after the death of Hafiz al-ASAD on 10
June 2000]; Arab Socialist Unionist Movement or ASU [Sami SOUFAN];
Arab Socialist Party [Abd al-Ghani KANNUT]; Socialist Unionist
Democratic Party [Ahmad al-ASAD]; Syrian Arab Socialist Party or ASP
[Safwan KOUDSI]; Syrian Communist Party or SCP [Yusuf FAYSAL]

Political pressure groups and leaders: conservative religious
leaders; Muslim Brotherhood (operates in exile in Jordan and Yemen);
non-Ba'th parties have little effective political influence

International organization participation: ABEDA, AFESD, AL, AMF,
CAEU, CCC, ESCWA, FAO, G-24, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICRM, IDA,
IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC,
ISO, ITU, NAM, OAPEC, OIC, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNRWA, UPU,
WFTU, WHO, WMO, WToO

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Rustum al-ZU'BI

chancery:  2215 Wyoming Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone:  [1] (202) 232-6313

FAX:  [1] (202) 234-9548

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Ryan C. CROCKER

embassy:  Abou Roumaneh, Al-Mansur Street, No. 2, Damascus

mailing address:  P. O. Box 29, Damascus

telephone:  [963] (11) 333-2814

FAX:  [963] (11) 224-7938

Flag description: three equal horizontal bands of red (top), white,
and black, with two small green five-pointed stars in a horizontal
line centered in the white band; similar to the flag of Yemen, which
has a plain white band, and of Iraq, which has three green stars
(plus an Arabic inscription) in a horizontal line centered in the
white band; also similar to the flag of Egypt, which has a heraldic
eagle centered in the white band



Syria    Economy

Economy - overview: Syria's predominantly statist economy is on a
shaky footing because of Damascus's failure to implement extensive
economic reform. The dominant agricultural sector remains
underdeveloped, with roughly 80% of agricultural land still
dependent on rain-fed sources. Although Syria has sufficient water
supplies in the aggregate at normal levels of precipitation, the
great distance between major water supplies and population centers
poses serious distribution problems. The water problem is
exacerbated by rapid population growth, industrial expansion, and
increased water pollution. Private investment is critical to the
modernization of the agricultural, energy, and export sectors. Oil
production is leveling off, and the efforts of the nonoil sector to
penetrate international markets have fallen short. Syria's
inadequate infrastructure, outmoded technological base, and weak
educational system make it vulnerable to future shocks and hamper
competition with neighbors such as Jordan and Israel. The government
recognizes the need to open the economy to additional domestic and
foreign investment.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $50.9 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 3.5% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $3,100 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  29%

industry:  22%

services:  49% (1997)

Population below poverty line: 15%-25%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 1.5% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 4.7 million (1998 est.)

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture 40%, industry 20%, services
40% (1996 est.)

Unemployment rate: 20% (2000 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $2.25 billion

expenditures:  $5.4 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
(2000 est.)

Industries: petroleum, textiles, food processing, beverages,
tobacco, phosphate rock mining

Industrial production growth rate: NA%

Electricity - production: 17.94 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  57.64%

hydro:  42.36%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 16.684 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: wheat, barley, cotton, lentils, chickpeas,
olives, sugar beets; beef, mutton, eggs, poultry, milk

Exports: $4.8 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Exports - commodities: petroleum 65%, textiles 10%, manufactured
goods 10%, fruits and vegetables 7%, raw cotton 5%, live sheep 2%,
phosphates 1% (1998 est.)

Exports - partners: Germany 21%, Italy 12%, France 10%, Saudi Arabia
9%, Turkey 8% (1999 est.)

Imports: $3.5 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Imports - commodities: machinery and equipment 23%,
foodstuffs/animals 20%, metal and metal products 15%, textiles 10%,
chemicals 10% (1998 est.)

Imports - partners: France 11%, Italy 8%, Germany 7%, Turkey 5%,
China 4% (1999 est.)

Debt - external: $22 billion (2000 est.)

Economic aid - recipient: $199 million (1997 est.)

Currency: Syrian pound (SYP)

Currency code: SYP

Exchange rates: Syrian pounds per US dollar - 46 (2000), 46 (1998),
41.9 (January 1997)

Fiscal year: calendar year



Syria    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 1.313 million (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: NA

Telephone system: general assessment:  fair system currently
undergoing significant improvement and digital upgrades, including
fiber-optic technology

domestic:  coaxial cable and microwave radio relay network

international:  satellite earth stations - 1 Intelsat (Indian Ocean)
and 1 Intersputnik (Atlantic Ocean region); 1 submarine cable;
coaxial cable and microwave radio relay to Iraq, Jordan, Lebanon,
and Turkey; participant in Medarabtel

Radio broadcast stations: AM 14, FM 2, shortwave 1 (1998)

Radios: 4.15 million (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 44 (plus 17 repeaters) (1995)

Televisions: 1.05 million (1997)

Internet country code: .sy

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 1 (2000)

Internet users: 20,000 (2000)



Syria    Transportation

Railways: total:  2,750 km

standard gauge:  2,423 km 1.435-m gauge

narrow gauge:  327 km 1.050-m gauge

note:  rail link between Syria and Iraq replaced in 2000 (2000)

Highways: total:  41,451 km

paved:  9,575 km (including 877 km of expressways)

unpaved:  31,876 km (1997)

Waterways: 870 km (minimal economic importance)

Pipelines: crude oil 1,304 km; petroleum products 515 km

Ports and harbors: Baniyas, Jablah, Latakia, Tartus

Merchant marine: total:  133 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
425,392 GRT/612,097 DWT

ships by type:  bulk 11, cargo 117, livestock carrier 4, roll
on/roll off 1 (2000 est.)

Airports: 100 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  24

over 3,047 m:  5

2,438 to 3,047 m:  16

914 to 1,523 m:  1

under 914 m:  2 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  76

1,524 to 2,437 m:  2

914 to 1,523 m:  11

under 914 m:  63 (2000 est.)

Heliports: 2 (2000 est.)



Syria    Military

Military branches: Syrian Arab Army, Syrian Arab Navy, Syrian Arab
Air Force, Syrian Arab Air Defense Forces, Police and Security Force

Military manpower - military age: 19 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  4,384,528 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
2,448,630 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  200,859
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $921 million (FY00 est.);
note - based on official budget data that may understate actual
spending

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 5.9% (FY98)



Syria    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: Golan Heights is Israeli occupied; dispute
with upstream riparian Turkey over Turkish water development plans
for the Tigris and Euphrates rivers; Syrian troops in northern,
central, and eastern Lebanon since October 1976

Illicit drugs: a transit point for opiates and hashish bound for
regional and Western markets

======================================================================

@Taiwan




Taiwan    Introduction

Background: In 1895, military defeat forced China to cede Taiwan to
Japan, however it reverted to Chinese control after World War II.
Following the communist victory on the mainland in 1949, 2 million
Nationalists fled to Taiwan and established a government using the
1947 constitution drawn up for all of China. Over the next five
decades, the ruling authorities gradually democratized and
incorporated the native population within its governing structure.
Throughout this period, the island has prospered to become one of
East Asia's economic "Tigers." The dominant political issue
continues to be the relationship between Taiwan and China and the
question of eventual reunification.



Taiwan    Geography

Location: Eastern Asia, islands bordering the East China Sea,
Philippine Sea, South China Sea, and Taiwan Strait, north of the
Philippines, off the southeastern coast of China

Geographic coordinates: 23 30 N, 121 00 E

Map references: Southeast Asia

Area: total:  35,980 sq km

land:  32,260 sq km

water:  3,720 sq km

note:  includes the Pescadores, Matsu, and Quemoy

Area - comparative: slightly smaller than Maryland and Delaware
combined

Land boundaries: 0 km

Coastline: 1,566.3 km

Maritime claims: exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: tropical; marine; rainy season during southwest monsoon
(June to August); cloudiness is persistent and extensive all year

Terrain: eastern two-thirds mostly rugged mountains; flat to gently
rolling plains in west

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  South China Sea 0 m

highest point:  Yu Shan 3,997 m

Natural resources: small deposits of coal, natural gas, limestone,
marble, and asbestos

Land use: arable land:  24%

permanent crops:  1%

permanent pastures:  5%

forests and woodland:  55%

other:  15%

Irrigated land: NA sq km

Natural hazards: earthquakes and typhoons

Environment - current issues: air pollution; water pollution from
industrial emissions, raw sewage; contamination of drinking water
supplies; trade in endangered species; low-level radioactive waste
disposal

Environment - international agreements: party to:  none of the
selected agreements

signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements



Taiwan    People

Population: 22,370,461 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  21.22% (male 2,470,270; female 2,276,108)

15-64 years:  69.97% (male 7,944,451; female 7,707,250)

65 years and over:  8.81% (male 1,034,230; female 938,152) (2001
est.)

Population growth rate: 0.8% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 14.31 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 6 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: -0.34 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.09 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.09 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1.03 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  1.1 male(s)/female

total population:  1.05 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 6.93 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  76.54 years

male:  73.81 years

female:  79.51 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 1.76 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: NA

HIV/AIDS - deaths: NA

Nationality: noun:  Chinese (singular and plural)

adjective:  Chinese

Ethnic groups: Taiwanese (including Hakka) 84%, mainland Chinese
14%, aborigine 2%

Religions: mixture of Buddhist, Confucian, and Taoist 93%, Christian
4.5%, other 2.5%

Languages: Mandarin Chinese (official), Taiwanese (Min), Hakka
dialects

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  86% (1980 est.); note - literacy for the total
population has reportedly increased to 94% (1998 est.)

male:  93% (1980 est.)

female:  79% (1980 est.)



Taiwan    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  none

conventional short form:  Taiwan

local long form:  none

local short form:  T'ai-wan

former:  Formosa

Government type: multiparty democratic regime headed by popularly
elected president

Capital: Taipei

Administrative divisions: since in the past the authorities claimed
to be the government of all China, the central administrative
divisions include the provinces of Fu-chien (some 20 offshore
islands of Fujian Province including Quemoy and Matsu) and Taiwan
(the island of Taiwan and the Pescadores islands); note - the more
commonly referenced administrative divisions are those of Taiwan
Province - 16 counties (hsien, singular and plural), 5
municipalities* (shih, singular and plural), and 2 special
municipalities** (chuan-shih, singular and plural); Chang-hua,
Chia-i, Chia-i*, Chi-lung*, Hsin-chu, Hsin-chu*, Hua-lien, I-lan,
Kao-hsiung, Kao-hsiung**, Miao-li, Nan-t'ou, P'eng-hu, P'ing-tung,
T'ai-chung, T'ai-chung*, T'ai-nan, T'ai-nan*, T'ai-pei, T'ai-pei**,
T'ai-tung, T'ao-yuan, and Yun-lin; the provincial capital is at
Chung-hsing-hsin-ts'un

note:  Taiwan uses the Wade-Giles system for romanization

National holiday: Republic Day (Anniversary of the Chinese
Revolution), 10 October (1911)

Constitution: 1 January 1947, amended in 1992, 1994, 1997, and 1999

Legal system: based on civil law system; accepts compulsory ICJ
jurisdiction, with reservations

Suffrage: 20 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  President CHEN Shui-bien (20 May
2000) and Vice President Annette LU (since 20 May 2000)

head of government:  Premier (President of the Executive Yuan) CHANG
Chun-hsiung (since NA October 2000) and Vice Premier (Vice President
of the Executive Yuan) LAI In-jaw (since NA October 2000)

cabinet:  Executive Yuan appointed by the president

elections:  president and vice president elected on the same ticket
by popular vote for four-year terms; election last held 18 March
2000 (next to be held NA March 2004); premier appointed by the
president; vice premiers appointed by the president on the
recommendation of the premier

election results:  CHEN Shui-bien elected president; percent of vote
- CHEN Shui-bien (DPP) 39.3%, James SOONG (independent) 36.84%, LIEN
Chan (KMT) 23.1%, HSU Hsin-liang (independent) 0.63%, LEE Ao (CNP)
0.13%

Legislative branch: unicameral Legislative Yuan (225 seats - 168
elected by popular vote, 41 elected on the basis of the proportion
of nationwide votes received by participating political parties,
eight elected from overseas Chinese constituencies on the basis of
the proportion of nationwide votes received by participating
political parties, eight elected by popular vote among the
aboriginal populations; members serve three-year terms) and
unicameral National Assembly (300 seats, note - total number of
seats has been reduced from 334 to 300 since the last election;
members are elected by proportional representation based on the
election of the Legislative Yuan and serve four-year terms)

elections:  Legislative Yuan - last held 5 December 1998 (next to be
held NA December 2001); National Assembly - last held 23 March 1996
(next to be held NA June 2002)

election results:  Legislative Yuan - percent of vote by party - KMT
46%, DPP 29%, CNP 7%, independents 10%, other parties 8%; seats by
party - KMT 123, DPP 70, CNP 11, independents 15, other parties 6;
subsequent to the election there have been some changes in the
distribution of seats in the Legislative Yuan due to new party
formation and party defections, the new distribution is as follows -
KMT 114, DPP 66, PFP 17, NP 9, other/independent 19; National
Assembly - percent of vote by party - KMT 55%, DPP 30%, CNP 14%,
other 1%; seats by party - KMT 183, DPP 99, CNP 46, other 6

Judicial branch: Judicial Yuan (justices appointed by the president
with the consent of the National Assembly; note - beginning in 2003,
justices will be appointed by the president with the consent of the
Legislative Yuan)

Political parties and leaders: Chinese New Party or CNP [HAU
Lang-bin]; Democratic Progressive Party or DPP [Frank HSIEH,
chairman]; Kuomintang or KMT (Nationalist Party) [LIEN Chan,
chairman]; New Party or NP [LI Ching-hwa]; People First Party or PFP
[James SOONG, chairman]; other minor parties

Political pressure groups and leaders: Taiwan independence movement,
various business and environmental groups

note:  debate on Taiwan independence has become acceptable within
the mainstream of domestic politics on Taiwan; political
liberalization and the increased representation of opposition
parties in Taiwan's legislature have opened public debate on the
island's national identity; a broad popular consensus has developed
that Taiwan currently enjoys de facto independence and - whatever
the ultimate outcome regarding reunification or independence - that
Taiwan's people must have the deciding voice; advocates of Taiwan
independence oppose the stand that the island will eventually
reunify with mainland China; goals of the Taiwan independence
movement include establishing a sovereign nation on Taiwan and
entering the UN; other organizations supporting Taiwan independence
include the World United Formosans for Independence and the
Organization for Taiwan Nation Building

International organization participation: APEC, AsDB, BCIE, ICC,
ICFTU, IFRCS, IOC, WCL, WTrO (observer)

Diplomatic representation in the US: none; unofficial commercial and
cultural relations with the people of the US are maintained through
a private instrumentality, the Taipei Economic and Cultural
Representative Office (TECRO) in the US with headquarters in Taipei
and field offices in Washington and 12 other US cities

Diplomatic representation from the US: none; unofficial commercial
and cultural relations with the people on Taiwan are maintained
through a private corporation, the American Institute in Taiwan
(AIT), which has its headquarters in Rosslyn, Virginia (telephone:
[1] (703) 525-8474 and FAX: [1] (703) 841-1385) and offices in
Taipei at #7 Lane 134, Hsin Yi Road, Section 3, telephone [886] (2)
2709-2000, FAX [886] (2) 2702-7675, and in Kao-hsiung at #2 Chung
Cheng 3rd Road, 5th Floor, telephone [886] (7) 224-0154 through
0157, FAX [886] (7) 223-8237, and the American Trade Center at Room
3208 International Trade Building, Taipei World Trade Center, 333
Keelung Road Section 1, Taipei 10548, telephone [886] (2) 2720-1550,
FAX [886] (2) 2757-7162

Flag description: red with a dark blue rectangle in the upper
hoist-side corner bearing a white sun with 12 triangular rays



Taiwan    Economy

Economy - overview: Taiwan has a dynamic capitalist economy with
gradually decreasing guidance of investment and foreign trade by
government authorities. In keeping with this trend, some large
government-owned banks and industrial firms are being privatized.
Real growth in GDP has averaged about 8% during the past three
decades. Exports have grown even faster and have provided the
primary impetus for industrialization. Inflation and unemployment
are low; the trade surplus is substantial; and foreign reserves are
the world's fourth largest. Agriculture contributes 3% to GDP, down
from 35% in 1952. Traditional labor-intensive industries are
steadily being moved offshore and replaced with more capital- and
technology-intensive industries. Taiwan has become a major investor
in China, Thailand, Indonesia, the Philippines, Malaysia, and
Vietnam. The tightening of labor markets has led to an influx of
foreign workers, both legal and illegal. Because of its conservative
financial approach and its entrepreneurial strengths, Taiwan
suffered little compared with many of its neighbors from the Asian
financial crisis in 1998-99. Growth in 2001 will depend largely on
conditions in Taiwan's export markets and may be about 5%.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $386 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 6.3% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $17,400 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  3%

industry:  33%

services:  64% (1999 est.)

Population below poverty line: 1% (1999 est.)

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 1.3% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 9.8 million (2000 est.)

Labor force - by occupation: services 55%, industry 37%, agriculture
8% (1999 est.)

Unemployment rate: 3% (2000 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $42.74 billion

expenditures:  $48.8 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
(2001 est.)

Industries: electronics, petroleum refining, chemicals, textiles,
iron and steel, machinery, cement, food processing

Industrial production growth rate: 8% (2000 est.)

Electricity - production: 139.676 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  67.26%

hydro:  6.32%

nuclear:  26.42%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 129.899 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: rice, corn, vegetables, fruit, tea; pigs,
poultry, beef, milk; fish

Exports: $148.38 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Exports - commodities: machinery and electrical equipment 51%,
metals, textiles, plastics, chemicals

Exports - partners: US 23.5%, Hong Kong 21.1%, Europe 16%, ASEAN
12.2%, Japan 11.2% (2000)

Imports: $140.01 billion (c.i.f., 2000)

Imports - commodities: machinery and electrical equipment 51%,
minerals, precision instruments

Imports - partners: Japan 27.5%, US 17.9%, Europe 13.6% (2000)

Debt - external: $40 billion (2000)

Currency: new Taiwan dollar (TWD)

Currency code: TWD

Exchange rates: new Taiwan dollars per US dollar - 33.082 (yearend
2000), 31.395 (yearend 1999), 32.216 (1998), 32.052 (1997), 27.5
(1996)

Fiscal year: 1 July - 30 June (up to FY98/99); 1 July 1999 - 31
December 2000 for FY00; calendar year (after FY00)



Taiwan    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 12.49 million (September 2000)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 16 million (September 2000)

Telephone system: general assessment:  provides telecommunications
service for every business and private need

domestic:  thoroughly modern; completely digitalized

international:  satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat (1 Pacific
Ocean and 1 Indian Ocean); submarine cables to Japan (Okinawa),
Philippines, Guam, Singapore, Hong Kong, Indonesia, Australia,
Middle East, and Western Europe (1999)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 218, FM 333, shortwave 50 (1999)

Radios: 16 million (1994)

Television broadcast stations: 29 (plus two repeaters) (1997)

Televisions: 8.8 million (1998)

Internet country code: .tw

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 8 (2000)

Internet users: 6.4 million (2000)



Taiwan    Transportation

Railways: total:  4,600 km (519 km electrified)

narrow gauge:  4,600 km 1.067-m

note:  only 1,108 km of route length (including the electrified
part) is used in common carrier service by the Taiwan Railway
Administration; the remaining 3,492 km is dedicated to industrial
use (1999)

Highways: total:  34,901 km

paved:  31,271 km (including 538 km of expressways)

unpaved:  3,630 km (1998 est.)

Waterways: NA

Pipelines: petroleum products 3,400 km; natural gas 1,800 km (1999)

Ports and harbors: Chi-lung (Keelung), Hua-lien, Kao-hsiung, Su-ao,
T'ai-chung

Merchant marine: total:  167 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
4,768,145 GRT/7,508,941 DWT

ships by type:  bulk 45, cargo 29, combination bulk 1, container 65,
petroleum tanker 17, refrigerated cargo 8, roll on/roll off 2 (2000
est.)

Airports: 39 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  35

over 3,047 m:  8

2,438 to 3,047 m:  9

1,524 to 2,437 m:  8

914 to 1,523 m:  7

under 914 m:  3 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  4

1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

under 914 m:  3 (2000 est.)

Heliports: 3 (2000 est.)



Taiwan    Military

Military branches: Army, Navy (includes Marines), Air Force, Coastal
Patrol and Defense Command, Armed Forces Reserve Command, Combined
Service Forces

Military manpower - military age: 19 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  6,575,689 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
5,025,856 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  198,766
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $8.042 billion (FY98/99)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 2.8% (FY98/99)



Taiwan    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: involved in complex dispute over the
Spratly Islands with China, Malaysia, Philippines, Vietnam, and
possibly Brunei; Paracel Islands occupied by China, but claimed by
Vietnam and Taiwan; claims Japanese-administered Senkaku-shoto
(Senkaku Islands/Diaoyu Tai), as does China

Illicit drugs: transit point for heroin and methamphetamine; major
problem with domestic consumption of methamphetamine and heroin

======================================================================

@Tajikistan




Tajikistan    Introduction

Background: Tajikistan has experienced three changes in government
and a five-year civil war since it gained independence in 1991 from
the USSR. A peace agreement among rival factions was signed in 1997,
and implementation reportedly completed by late 1999. Part of the
agreement required the legalization of opposition political parties
prior to the 1999 elections, which occurred, but such parties have
made little progress in successful participation in government.
Random criminal and political violence in the country remains a
complication impairing Tajikistan's ability to engage
internationally.



Tajikistan    Geography

Location: Central Asia, west of China

Geographic coordinates: 39 00 N, 71 00 E

Map references: Commonwealth of Independent States

Area: total:  143,100 sq km

land:  142,700 sq km

water:  400 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly smaller than Wisconsin

Land boundaries: total:  3,651 km

border countries:  Afghanistan 1,206 km, China 414 km, Kyrgyzstan
870 km, Uzbekistan 1,161 km

Coastline: 0 km (landlocked)

Maritime claims: none (landlocked)

Climate: midlatitude continental, hot summers, mild winters;
semiarid to polar in Pamir Mountains

Terrain: Pamir and Alay mountains dominate landscape; western
Fergana Valley in north, Kofarnihon and Vakhsh Valleys in southwest

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Syrdariya 300 m

highest point:  Pik Imeni Ismail Samani 7,495 m

Natural resources: hydropower, some petroleum, uranium, mercury,
brown coal, lead, zinc, antimony, tungsten, silver, gold

Land use: arable land:  6%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  25%

forests and woodland:  4%

other:  65% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 6,390 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: NA

Environment - current issues: inadequate sanitation facilities;
increasing levels of soil salinity; industrial pollution; excessive
pesticides; part of the basin of the shrinking Aral Sea suffers from
severe overutilization of available water for irrigation and
associated pollution

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Desertification, Environmental Modification, Ozone
Layer Protection

signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Geography - note: landlocked



Tajikistan    People

Population: 6,578,681 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  41.18% (male 1,367,194; female 1,341,967)

15-64 years:  54.22% (male 1,773,605; female 1,793,345)

65 years and over:  4.6% (male 131,009; female 171,561) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 2.12% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 33.23 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 8.57 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: -3.49 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.02 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  0.99 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.76 male(s)/female

total population:  0.99 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 116.09 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  64.18 years

male:  61.09 years

female:  67.42 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 4.29 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: less than 0.01% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: less than 100 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: less than 100 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Tajikistani(s)

adjective:  Tajikistani

Ethnic groups: Tajik 64.9%, Uzbek 25%, Russian 3.5% (declining
because of emigration), other 6.6%

Religions: Sunni Muslim 80%, Shi'a Muslim 5%

Languages: Tajik (official), Russian widely used in government and
business

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  98%

male:  99%

female:  97% (1989 est.)



Tajikistan    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Republic of Tajikistan

conventional short form:  Tajikistan

local long form:  Jumhurii Tojikiston

local short form:  none

former:  Tajik Soviet Socialist Republic

Government type: republic

Capital: Dushanbe

Administrative divisions: 2 oblasts (viloyatho, singular - viloyat)
and one autonomous oblast* (viloyati mukhtori); Viloyati Mukhtori
Kuhistoni Badakhshon* (Khorugh - formerly Khorog), Viloyati Khatlon
(Qurghonteppa - formerly Kurgan-Tyube), Viloyati Leninobod (Khujand
- formerly Leninabad)

note:  the administrative center name follows in parentheses

Independence: 9 September 1991 (from Soviet Union)

National holiday: Independence Day, 9 September (1991)

Constitution: 6 November 1994

Legal system: based on civil law system; no judicial review of
legislative acts

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Emomali RAHMONOV (since
6 November 1994; head of state and Supreme Assembly chairman since
19 November 1992)

head of government:  Prime Minister Oqil OQILOV (since 20 January
1999)

cabinet:  Council of Ministers appointed by the president, approved
by the Supreme Assembly

elections:  president elected by popular vote for a seven-year term;
election last held 6 November 1999 (next to be held NA 2006); prime
minister appointed by the president

election results:  Emomali RAHMONOV elected president; percent of
vote - Emomali RAHMONOV 97%, Davlat USMON 2%

Legislative branch: bicameral Supreme Assembly or Majlisi Oli
consists of the Assembly of Representatives (lower chamber) or
Majlisi Namoyandagon (63 seats; members are elected by popular vote
to serve five-year terms) and National Assembly (upper chamber) or
Majlisi Milliy (33 seats; members are indirectly elected, 25
selected by local deputies, 8 appointed by the president; all to
serve five-year terms)

elections:  last held 27 February and 12 March 2000 for the Assembly
of Representatives (next to be held NA 2005) and 23 March 2000 for
the National Assembly (next to be held NA 2005)

election results:  Assembly of Representatives - percent of vote by
party - PDPT 65%, Communist Party 20%, Islamic Rebirth Party 7.5%,
other 7.5%; seats by party - NA; National Assembly - percent of vote
by party - NA%; seats by party - NA

Judicial branch: Supreme Court (judges are appointed by the
president)

Political parties and leaders: Congress of People's Unity of
Tajikistan [Saiffidin TURAYEV]; Democratic Party or TDP [Mahmadruzi
ISKANDAROV, chairman]; Islamic Rebirth Party [Muhammadsharif
HIMMAT-ZODA, chairman]; Lali Badakhshan Movement [Atobek AMIRBEKOV];
National Movement Party [Hakim MUHHABATOV]; Party of Justice and
Development [Rahmatullo ZOIROV]; People's Democratic Party of
Tajikistan or PDPT [Emomali RAHMONOV]; Rastokhez (Rebirth) Movement
[Tohiri ABDUJABBOR]; Socialist Party [Sherali KENJAEV]; Tajik
Communist Party or CPT [Shodi SHABDOLOV]; Adolatho "Justice" Party
[Abdurahmon KARIMOV, chairman]

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: AsDB, CCC, CIS, EAPC,
EBRD, ECE, ECO, ESCAP, FAO, IBRD, ICAO, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC,
IFRCS, ILO, IMF, Intelsat, IOC, IOM, ITU, OIC, OPCW, OSCE, UN,
UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTrO (observer)

Diplomatic representation in the US: Tajikistan does not have an
embassy in the US, but does have a permanent mission to the UN:
address - 136 East 67th Street, New York, NY 10021, telephone - [1]
(212) 472-7645, FAX - [1] (212) 628-0252; permanent representative
to the UN is Rashid ALIMOV

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Robert P. J. FINN

embassy:  temporarily collocated with the US Embassy in Almaty
(Kazakhstan)

mailing address:  use embassy street address

telephone:  NA

FAX:  NA

Flag description: three horizontal stripes of red (top), a wider
stripe of white, and green; a gold crown surmounted by seven gold,
five-pointed stars is located in the center of the white stripe



Tajikistan    Economy

Economy - overview: Tajikistan has the lowest per capita GDP among
the 15 former Soviet republics. Cotton is the most important crop.
Mineral resources, varied but limited in amount, include silver,
gold, uranium, and tungsten. Industry consists only of a large
aluminum plant, hydropower facilities, and small obsolete factories
mostly in light industry and food processing. The Tajikistani
economy has been gravely weakened by six years of civil conflict and
by the loss of subsidies from Moscow and of markets for its
products. Most of its people live in abject poverty. Tajikistan
depends on aid from Russia and Uzbekistan and on international
humanitarian assistance for much of its basic subsistence needs. The
future of Tajikistan's economy and the potential for attracting
foreign investment depend upon stability and continued progress in
the peace process.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $7.3 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 5.1% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $1,140 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  19.8%

industry:  18.1%

services:  62.1% (1998)

Population below poverty line: 80% (2000 est.)

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 33% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 1.9 million (1996)

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture 50%, industry 20%, services
30% (1997 est.)

Unemployment rate: 5.7% includes only officially registered
unemployed; also large numbers of underemployed workers and
unregistered unemployed people (December 1998)

Budget: revenues:  $146 million

expenditures:  $196 million, including capital expenditures of $NA
(2000 est.)

Industries: aluminum, zinc, lead, chemicals and fertilizers, cement,
vegetable oil, metal-cutting machine tools, refrigerators and
freezers

Industrial production growth rate: 10% (2000 est.)

Electricity - production: 15.623 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  1.9%

hydro:  98.1%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 14.729 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 3.9 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 4.1 billion kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: cotton, grain, fruits, grapes, vegetables;
cattle, sheep, goats

Exports: $761 million (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Exports - commodities: aluminum, electricity, cotton, fruits,
vegetable oil, textiles

Exports - partners: Liechtenstein 26%, Uzbekistan 20%, Russia 8%
(1998)

Imports: $782 million (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Imports - commodities: electricity, petroleum products, aluminum
oxide, machinery and equipment, foodstuffs

Imports - partners: Europe 32.3%, Uzbekistan 29%, Russia 13.6% (1998)

Debt - external: $1.3 billion (1999 est.)

Economic aid - recipient: $64.7 million (1995)

Currency: somoni

Currency code: SM

Exchange rates: Tajikistani somoni per US dollar - 2.2 (January
2001), 1550 (January 2000), 998 (January 1999), 350 (January 1997),
284 (January 1996)

note:  the new unit of exchange was introduced on 30 October 2000,
with one somoni equal to 1,000 of the old Tajikistani rubles

Fiscal year: calendar year



Tajikistan    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 363,000 (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 2,500 (1997)

Telephone system: general assessment:  poorly developed and not well
maintained; many towns are not reached by the national network

domestic:  cable and microwave radio relay

international:  linked by cable and microwave radio relay to other
CIS republics and by leased connections to the Moscow international
gateway switch; Dushanbe linked by Intelsat to international gateway
switch in Ankara (Turkey); satellite earth stations - 1 Orbita and 2
Intelsat

Radio broadcast stations: AM 9, FM 6, shortwave 5 (1998)

Radios: 1.291 million (1991)

Television broadcast stations: 0 (there are, however, repeaters that
relay programs from Russia, Iran, and Turkey) (1997)

Televisions: 860,000 (1991)

Internet country code: .tj

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): NA

Internet users: 2,000 (2000)



Tajikistan    Transportation

Railways: total:  480 km in common carrier service; does not include
industrial lines (1990)

Highways: total:  29,900 km

paved:  21,400 km (these roads are said to be hard-surfaced, and
include, in addition to conventionally paved roads, some that are
surfaced with gravel or other coarse aggregate, making them
trafficable in all weather)

unpaved:  8,500 km (these roads are made of unstabilized earth and
are difficult to negotiate in wet weather) (1990)

Waterways: none

Pipelines: natural gas 400 km (1992)

Ports and harbors: none

Airports: 53 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  2

1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

under 914 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  51

over 3,047 m:  1

1,524 to 2,437 m:  2

914 to 1,523 m:  12

under 914 m:  36 (2000 est.)



Tajikistan    Military

Military branches: Army, Air Force, Air Defense Forces, Presidential
National Guard, Security Forces (internal and border troops)

Military manpower - military age: 18 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  1,586,700 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
1,300,252 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  72,056
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $17 million (FY97)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 1.8% (FY97)



Tajikistan    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: portions of Tajikistan's northern and
western border with Uzbekistan and its eastern border with China
have not been officially demarcated; territorial dispute with
Kyrgyzstan on northern boundary in Isfara Valley area

Illicit drugs: major transshipment zone for heroin and opiates from
Afghanistan going to Russia and Western Europe; limited illicit
cultivation of cannabis, mostly for domestic consumption

======================================================================

@Tanzania




Tanzania    Introduction

Background: Shortly after independence, Tanganyika and Zanzibar
merged to form the nation of Tanzania in 1964. One-party rule came
to an end in 1995 with the first democratic elections held in the
country since the 1970s. Zanzibar's semi-autonomous status and
popular opposition have led to two contentious elections since 1995,
which the ruling party won despite international observers' claims
of voting irregularities.



Tanzania    Geography

Location: Eastern Africa, bordering the Indian Ocean, between Kenya
and Mozambique

Geographic coordinates: 6 00 S, 35 00 E

Map references: Africa

Area: total:  945,087 sq km

land:  886,037 sq km

water:  59,050 sq km

note:  includes the islands of Mafia, Pemba, and Zanzibar

Area - comparative: slightly larger than twice the size of California

Land boundaries: total:  3,402 km

border countries:  Burundi 451 km, Kenya 769 km, Malawi 475 km,
Mozambique 756 km, Rwanda 217 km, Uganda 396 km, Zambia 338 km

Coastline: 1,424 km

Maritime claims: exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: varies from tropical along coast to temperate in highlands

Terrain: plains along coast; central plateau; highlands in north,
south

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Indian Ocean 0 m

highest point:  Kilimanjaro 5,895 m

Natural resources: hydropower, tin, phosphates, iron ore, coal,
diamonds, gemstones, gold, natural gas, nickel

Land use: arable land:  3%

permanent crops:  1%

permanent pastures:  40%

forests and woodland:  38%

other:  18% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 1,500 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: flooding on the central plateau during the rainy
season; drought

Environment - current issues: soil degradation; deforestation;
desertification; destruction of coral reefs threatens marine
habitats; recent droughts affected marginal agriculture

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous
Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands

signed, but not ratified:  Nuclear Test Ban

Geography - note: Kilimanjaro is highest point in Africa



Tanzania    People

Population: 36,232,074

note:  estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
life expectancy, higher infant mortality and death rates, lower
population and growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  44.76% (male 8,152,438; female 8,063,520)

15-64 years:  52.35% (male 9,387,737; female 9,581,518)

65 years and over:  2.89% (male 473,498; female 573,363) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 2.61% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 39.65 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 12.95 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: -0.64 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.03 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.01 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  0.98 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.83 male(s)/female

total population:  0.99 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 79.41 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  51.98 years

male:  51.04 years

female:  52.95 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 5.42 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 8.09% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 1.3 million (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: 140,000 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Tanzanian(s)

adjective:  Tanzanian

Ethnic groups: mainland - native African 99% (of which 95% are Bantu
consisting of more than 130 tribes), other 1% (consisting of Asian,
European, and Arab); Zanzibar - Arab, native African, mixed Arab and
native African

Religions: mainland - Christian 45%, Muslim 35%, indigenous beliefs
20%; Zanzibar - more than 99% Muslim

Languages: Kiswahili or Swahili (official), Kiunguju (name for
Swahili in Zanzibar), English (official, primary language of
commerce, administration, and higher education), Arabic (widely
spoken in Zanzibar), many local languages

note:  Kiswahili (Swahili) is the mother tongue of the Bantu people
living in Zanzibar and nearby coastal Tanzania; although Kiswahili
is Bantu in structure and origin, its vocabulary draws on a variety
of sources, including Arabic and English, and it has become the
lingua franca of central and eastern Africa; the first language of
most people is one of the local languages

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write Kiswahili
(Swahili), English, or Arabic

total population:  67.8%

male:  79.4%

female:  56.8% (1995 est.)



Tanzania    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  United Republic of Tanzania

conventional short form:  Tanzania

former:  United Republic of Tanganyika and Zanzibar

Government type: republic

Capital: Dar es Salaam; note - legislative offices have been
transferred to Dodoma, which is planned as the new national capital;
the National Assembly now meets there on regular basis

Administrative divisions: 25 regions; Arusha, Dar es Salaam, Dodoma,
Iringa, Kagera, Kigoma, Kilimanjaro, Lindi, Mara, Mbeya, Morogoro,
Mtwara, Mwanza, Pemba North, Pemba South, Pwani, Rukwa, Ruvuma,
Shinyanga, Singida, Tabora, Tanga, Zanzibar Central/South, Zanzibar
North, Zanzibar Urban/West

Independence: 26 April 1964; Tanganyika became independent 9
December 1961 (from UK-administered UN trusteeship); Zanzibar became
independent 19 December 1963 (from UK); Tanganyika united with
Zanzibar 26 April 1964 to form the United Republic of Tanganyika and
Zanzibar; renamed United Republic of Tanzania 29 October 1964

National holiday: Union Day (Tanganyika and Zanzibar), 26 April
(1964)

Constitution: 25 April 1977; major revisions October 1984

Legal system: based on English common law; judicial review of
legislative acts limited to matters of interpretation; has not
accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Benjamin William MKAPA
(since 23 November 1995); Vice President Omar Ali JUMA (since 23
November 1995); note - the president is both chief of state and head
of government

head of government:  President Benjamin William MKAPA (since 23
November 1995); Vice President Omar Ali JUMA (since 23 November
1995); note - the president is both chief of state and head of
government

note:  Zanzibar elects a president who is head of government for
matters internal to Zanzibar; Amani Abeid KARUME was elected to that
office on 29 October 2000

cabinet:  Cabinet ministers, including the prime minister, are
appointed by the president from among the members of the National
Assembly

elections:  president and vice president elected on the same ballot
by popular vote for five-year terms; election last held 29 October
2000 (next to be held NA October 2005); prime minister appointed by
the president

election results:  Benjamin William MKAPA reelected president;
percent of vote - Benjamin William MKAPA 71.7%, Ibrahim Haruna
LIPUMBA 16.3%, Augustine Lyatonga MREME 7.8%, John Momose CHEYO 4.2%

Legislative branch: unicameral National Assembly or Bunge (274 seats
- 232 elected by popular vote, 37 allocated to women nominated by
the president, five to members of the Zanzibar House of
Representatives; members serve five-year terms); note - in addition
to enacting laws that apply to the entire United Republic of
Tanzania, the Assembly enacts laws that apply only to the mainland;
Zanzibar has its own House of Representatives to make laws
especially for Zanzibar (the Zanzibar House of Representatives has
50 seats, directly elected by universal suffrage to serve five-year
terms)

elections:  last held 29 October 2000 (next to be held NA October
2005)

election results:  National Assembly: percent of vote by party -
NA%; seats by party - CCM 244, CUF 16, CHADEMA 4, TLP 3, UDP 2,
Zanzibar representatives 5; Zanzibar House of Representatives:
percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party - CCM 34, CUF 16

Judicial branch: Permanent Commission of Enquiry (official
ombudsman); Court of Appeal (consists of a chief justice and four
judges); High Court (consists of a Jaji Kiongozi and 29 judges
appointed by the president; holds regular sessions in all regions);
District Courts; Primary Courts (limited jurisdiction and appeals
can be made to the higher courts)

Political parties and leaders: Chama Cha Demokrasia na Maendeleo or
CHADEMA [Bob MAKANI, chairman]; Chama Cha Mapinduzi or CCM
(Revolutionary Party) [Benjamin William MKAPA, chairman]; Civic
United Front or CUF [Seif Sharif HAMAD, secretary-general];
Democratic Party (unregistered) [Reverend Christopher MTIKLA,
leader]; National Convention for Construction and Reform or NCCR
[Kassim MAGUTU, secretary-general]; Tanzania Labor Party or TLP
[Augustine Lyatonga MREMA, chairman]; Union for Multiparty Democracy
or UMD [leader NA]; United Democratic Party or UDP [John CHEYO,
leader]

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: ACP, AfDB, C, CCC, EADB,
ECA, FAO, G- 6, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IFAD,
IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM,
ISO, ITU, MONUC, NAM, OAU, OPCW, SADC, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR,
UNIDO, UNMEE, UPU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Mustafa Salim NYANG'ANYI

chancery:  2139 R Street NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone:  [1] (202) 939-6125

FAX:  [1] (202) 797-7408

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Charge
d'Affaires Wanda NESBITT

embassy:  140 Msese Road, Kinondoni District, Dar es Salaam

mailing address:  P. O. Box 9123, Dar es Salaam

telephone:  [255] (22) 666010 through 666015

FAX:  [255] (22) 666701

Flag description: divided diagonally by a yellow-edged black band
from the lower hoist-side corner; the upper triangle (hoist side) is
green and the lower triangle is blue



Tanzania    Economy

Economy - overview: Tanzania is one of the poorest countries in the
world. The economy is heavily dependent on agriculture, which
accounts for half of GDP, provides 85% of exports, and employs 80%
of the work force. Topography and climatic conditions, however,
limit cultivated crops to only 4% of the land area. Industry is
mainly limited to processing agricultural products and light
consumer goods. The World Bank, the International Monetary Fund, and
bilateral donors have provided funds to rehabilitate Tanzania's
deteriorated economic infrastructure. Growth in 1991-2000 featured a
pick up in industrial production and a substantial increase in
output of minerals, led by gold. Natural gas exploration in the
Rufiji Delta looks promising and production could start by 2002.
Recent banking reforms have helped increase private sector growth
and investment. Continued donor support and solid macroeconomic
policies should allow Tanzania to achieve real GDP growth of 6% in
2001 and in 2002.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $25.1 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 5.2% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $710 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  49%

industry:  17%

services:  34% (1998 est.)

Population below poverty line: 51.1% (1991 est.)

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:
2.9%

highest 10%:  30.2% (1993)

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 6% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 13.495 million

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture 80%, industry and commerce
20% (2000 est.)

Unemployment rate: NA%

Budget: revenues:  $1.21 billion

expenditures:  $1.36 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
(1999 est.)

Industries: primarily agricultural processing (sugar, beer,
cigarettes, sisal twine), diamond and gold mining, oil refining,
shoes, cement, textiles, wood products, fertilizer, salt

Industrial production growth rate: 8.4% (1999 est.)

Electricity - production: 2.248 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  22.24%

hydro:  77.76%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 2.134 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 43 million kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: coffee, sisal, tea, cotton, pyrethrum
(insecticide made from chrysanthemums), cashew nuts, tobacco, cloves
(Zanzibar), corn, wheat, cassava (tapioca), bananas, fruits,
vegetables; cattle, sheep, goats

Exports: $937 million (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Exports - commodities: coffee, manufactured goods, cotton, cashew
nuts, minerals, tobacco, sisal (1996)

Exports - partners: India 20%, UK 10%, Germany 8%, Japan 8%,
Netherlands 8%, Belgium 4% (1998)

Imports: $1.57 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Imports - commodities: consumer goods, machinery and transportation
equipment, industrial raw materials, crude oil

Imports - partners: South Africa 8%, Japan 8%, UK 8%, Kenya 7%,
India 6%, US 5% (1998)

Debt - external: $6.8 billion (2000 est.)

Economic aid - recipient: $963 million (1997)

Currency: Tanzanian shilling (TZS)

Currency code: TZS

Exchange rates: Tanzanian shillings per US dollar - 803.34 (December
2000), 800.41 (2000), 744.76 (1999), 664.67 (1998), 612.12 (1997),
579.98 (1996)

Fiscal year: 1 July - 30 June



Tanzania    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 127,000 (1998)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 30,000 (1999)

Telephone system: general assessment:  fair system operating below
capacity and being modernized for better service; VSAT (very small
aperture terminal) system under construction

domestic:  trunk service provided by open wire, microwave radio
relay, tropospheric scatter, and fiber-optic cable; some links being
made digital

international:  satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat (1 Indian
Ocean and 1 Atlantic Ocean)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 12, FM 11, shortwave 2 (1998)

Radios: 8.8 million (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 3 (1999)

Televisions: 103,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .tz

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 6 (2000)

Internet users: 25,000 (2000)



Tanzania    Transportation

Railways: total:  3,569 km (1995)

narrow gauge:  2,600 km 1.000-m gauge; 969 km 1.067-m gauge

note:  the Tanzania-Zambia Railway Authority (TAZARA), which
operates 1,860 km of 1.067-m narrow gauge track between Dar es
Salaam and Kapiri Mposhi in Zambia (of which 969 km are in Tanzania
and 891 km are in Zambia) is not a part of Tanzania Railways
Corporation; because of the difference in gauge, this system does
not connect to Tanzania Railways

Highways: total:  88,200 km

paved:  3,704 km

unpaved:  84,496 km (1996)

Waterways: note:  Lake Tanganyika, Lake Victoria, and Lake Nyasa are
principal avenues of commerce between Tanzania and its neighbors on
those lakes

Pipelines: crude oil 982 km

Ports and harbors: Bukoba, Dar es Salaam, Kigoma, Kilwa Masoko,
Lindi, Mtwara, Mwanza, Pangani, Tanga, Wete, Zanzibar

Merchant marine: total:  8 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 21,987
GRT/27,121 DWT

ships by type:  cargo 2, passenger/cargo 2, petroleum tanker 2, roll
on/roll off 1, short-sea passenger 1 (2000 est.)

Airports: 126 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  11

over 3,047 m:  2

2,438 to 3,047 m:  2

1,524 to 2,437 m:  5

914 to 1,523 m:  1

under 914 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  115

1,524 to 2,437 m:  17

914 to 1,523 m:  63

under 914 m:  35 (2000 est.)



Tanzania    Military

Military branches: Tanzanian People's Defense Force or TPDF
(includes Army, Navy, and Air Force), paramilitary Police Field
Force Unit, Militia

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  8,365,337 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
4,841,095 (2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $21 million (FY98/99)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 0.2% (FY98/99)



Tanzania    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: dispute with Malawi over the boundary in
Lake Nyasa (Lake Malawi); a resurvey of the latitudinal boundary
with Uganda in 2000 revealed a 300-meter discrepancy that both sides
are currently adjudicating

Illicit drugs: growing role in transshipment of Southwest and
Southeast Asian heroin and South American cocaine destined for South
African, European, and US markets and of South Asian methaqualone
bound for Southern Africa

======================================================================

@Thailand




Thailand    Introduction

Background: A unified Thai kingdom was established in the mid-14th
century; it was known as Siam until 1939. Thailand is the only
southeast Asian country never to have been taken over by a European
power. A bloodless revolution in 1932 led to a constitutional
monarchy. In alliance with Japan during World War II, Thailand
became a US ally following the conflict.



Thailand    Geography

Location: Southeastern Asia, bordering the Andaman Sea and the Gulf
of Thailand, southeast of Burma

Geographic coordinates: 15 00 N, 100 00 E

Map references: Southeast Asia

Area: total:  514,000 sq km

land:  511,770 sq km

water:  2,230 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly more than twice the size of Wyoming

Land boundaries: total:  4,863 km

border countries:  Burma 1,800 km, Cambodia 803 km, Laos 1,754 km,
Malaysia 506 km

Coastline: 3,219 km

Maritime claims: continental shelf:  200-m depth or to the depth of
exploitation

exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: tropical; rainy, warm, cloudy southwest monsoon (mid-May to
September); dry, cool northeast monsoon (November to mid-March);
southern isthmus always hot and humid

Terrain: central plain; Khorat Plateau in the east; mountains
elsewhere

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Gulf of Thailand 0 m

highest point:  Doi Inthanon 2,576 m

Natural resources: tin, rubber, natural gas, tungsten, tantalum,
timber, lead, fish, gypsum, lignite, fluorite, arable land

Land use: arable land:  34%

permanent crops:  6%

permanent pastures:  2%

forests and woodland:  26%

other:  32% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 44,000 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: land subsidence in Bangkok area resulting from the
depletion of the water table; droughts

Environment - current issues: air pollution from vehicle emissions;
water pollution from organic and factory wastes; deforestation; soil
erosion; wildlife populations threatened by illegal hunting

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Climate Change,
Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Marine Life Conservation,
Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection, Tropical Timber 83,
Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands

signed, but not ratified:  Biodiversity, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Law of the Sea

Geography - note: controls only land route from Asia to Malaysia and
Singapore



Thailand    People

Population: 61,797,751

note:  estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
life expectancy, higher infant mortality and death rates, lower
population and growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  23.43% (male 7,380,273; female 7,099,506)

15-64 years:  69.95% (male 21,304,051; female 21,921,383)

65 years and over:  6.62% (male 1,796,325; female 2,296,213) (2001
est.)

Population growth rate: 0.91% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 16.63 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 7.54 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  0.97 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.78 male(s)/female

total population:  0.97 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 30.49 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  68.86 years

male:  65.64 years

female:  72.24 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 1.87 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 2.15% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 755,000 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: 66,000 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Thai (singular and plural)

adjective:  Thai

Ethnic groups: Thai 75%, Chinese 14%, other 11%

Religions: Buddhism 95%, Muslim 3.8%, Christianity 0.5%, Hinduism
0.1%, other 0.6% (1991)

Languages: Thai, English (secondary language of the elite), ethnic
and regional dialects

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  93.8%

male:  96%

female:  91.6% (1995 est.)



Thailand    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Kingdom of Thailand

conventional short form:  Thailand

former:  Siam

Government type: constitutional monarchy

Capital: Bangkok

Administrative divisions: 76 provinces (changwat, singular and
plural); Amnat Charoen, Ang Thong, Buriram, Chachoengsao, Chai Nat,
Chaiyaphum, Chanthaburi, Chiang Mai, Chiang Rai, Chon Buri,
Chumphon, Kalasin, Kamphaeng Phet, Kanchanaburi, Khon Kaen, Krabi,
Krung Thep Mahanakhon (Bangkok), Lampang, Lamphun, Loei, Lop Buri,
Mae Hong Son, Maha Sarakham, Mukdahan, Nakhon Nayok, Nakhon Pathom,
Nakhon Phanom, Nakhon Ratchasima, Nakhon Sawan, Nakhon Si Thammarat,
Nan, Narathiwat, Nong Bua Lamphu, Nong Khai, Nonthaburi, Pathum
Thani, Pattani, Phangnga, Phatthalung, Phayao, Phetchabun,
Phetchaburi, Phichit, Phitsanulok, Phra Nakhon Si Ayutthaya, Phrae,
Phuket, Prachin Buri, Prachuap Khiri Khan, Ranong, Ratchaburi,
Rayong, Roi Et, Sa Kaeo, Sakon Nakhon, Samut Prakan, Samut Sakhon,
Samut Songkhram, Sara Buri, Satun, Sing Buri, Sisaket, Songkhla,
Sukhothai, Suphan Buri, Surat Thani, Surin, Tak, Trang, Trat, Ubon
Ratchathani, Udon Thani, Uthai Thani, Uttaradit, Yala, Yasothon

Independence: 1238 (traditional founding date; never colonized)

National holiday: Birthday of King PHUMIPHON, 5 December (1927)

Constitution: new constitution signed by King PHUMIPHON on 11
October 1997

Legal system: based on civil law system, with influences of common
law; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal and compulsory

Executive branch: chief of state:  King PHUMIPHON Adunyadet (since 9
June 1946)

head of government:  Prime Minister THAKSIN Chinnawat (since NA
January 2001)

cabinet:  Council of Ministers

note:  there is also a Privy Council

elections:  none; the monarch is hereditary; prime minister
designated from among the members of the House of Representatives;
following a national election for the House of Representatives, the
leader of the party that can organize a majority coalition usually
becomes prime minister

Legislative branch: bicameral National Assembly or Rathasapha
consists of the Senate or Wuthisapha (200 seats; members elected by
popular vote to serve four-year terms) and the House of
Representatives or Sapha Phuthaen Ratsadon (500 seats; members
elected by popular vote to serve four-year terms)

elections:  Senate - last held 4 March, 29 April, 4 June, 9 July,
and 22 July 2000 (next to be held NA March 2004); House of
Representatives - last held 6 January 2001 (next to be held NA
January 2005)

election results:  Senate - percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by
party - NA; House of Representatives - percent of vote by party -
NA%; seats by party - TRT 248, DP 128, TNP 41, NAP 36, NDP 29, other
18

Judicial branch: Supreme Court or Sandika (judges appointed by the
monarch)

Political parties and leaders: Democratic Party or DP (Prachathipat
Party) [CHUAN Likphai]; Liberal Democratic Party or LDP (Seri Tham)
[PHINIT Charusombat]; Mass Party or MP [CHALERM Yoobamrung, SOPHON
Petchsavang]; National Development Party or NDP (Chat Phattana)
[KORN Dabbaransi]; New Aspiration Party or NAP (Khwamwang Mai) [Gen.
CHAWALIT Yongchaiyut]; Phalang Dharma Party or PDP (Phalang Tham)
[CHAIWAT Sinsuwong]; Social Action Party or SAP (Kitsangkhom Party)
[leader vacant]; Solidarity Party or SP (Ekkaphap Party) [CHAIYOT
Sasomsap]; Thai Citizen's Party or TCP (Prachakon Thai) [SAMAK
Sunthonwet]; Thai Nation Party or TNP (Chat Thai Party) [BANHAN
Sinlapa-acha]; Thai Rak Thai Party or TRT [THAKSIN Chinnawat]

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: APEC, ARF, AsDB, ASEAN,
BIS, CCC, CP, ESCAP, FAO, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, ICRM,
IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat,
Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO, ITU, NAM, OAS (observer), OIC (observer),
OPCW, OSCE (partner), PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNIKOM,
UNITAR, UNMIBH, UNTAET, UNU, UPU, WCL, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO,
WTrO

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
TEJ Bunnag

chancery:  1024 Wisconsin Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20007

telephone:  [1] (202) 944-3600

FAX:  [1] (202) 944-3611

consulate(s) general:  Chicago, Los Angeles, and New York

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Richard E. HECKLINGER

embassy:  120/22 Wireless Road, Bangkok

mailing address:  APO AP 96546

telephone:  [66] (2) 205-4000

FAX:  [66] (2) 254-1171

consulate(s) general:  Chiang Mai

Flag description: five horizontal bands of red (top), white, blue
(double width), white, and red



Thailand    Economy

Economy - overview: After enjoying the world's highest growth rate
from 1985 to 1995 - averaging almost 9% annually - increased
speculative pressure on Thailand's currency in 1997 led to a crisis
that uncovered financial sector weaknesses and forced the government
to float the baht. Long pegged at 25 to the dollar, the baht reached
its lowest point of 56 to the dollar in January 1998 and the economy
contracted by 10.2% that same year. Thailand entered a recovery
stage in 1999, expanding 4.2% and grew about the same amount in
2000, largely due to strong exports - which increased about 20% in
2000. An ailing financial sector and the slow pace of corporate debt
restructuring, combined with a softening of global demand, is likely
to slow growth in 2001.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $413 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 4.2% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $6,700 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  13%

industry:  40%

services:  47% (1999)

Population below poverty line: 12.5% (1998 est.)

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:
2.5%

highest 10%:  37.1% (1992)

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 2.1% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 32.6 million (1997 est.)

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture 54%, industry 15%, services
31% (1996 est.)

Unemployment rate: 3.7% (2000 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $19 billion

expenditures:  $21 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
(2000 est.)

Industries: tourism; textiles and garments, agricultural processing,
beverages, tobacco, cement, light manufacturing, such as jewelry;
electric appliances and components, computers and parts, integrated
circuits, furniture, plastics; world's second-largest tungsten
producer and third-largest tin producer

Industrial production growth rate: 3% (2000 est.)

Electricity - production: 89.431 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  91.17%

hydro:  3.81%

nuclear:  0%

other:  5.02% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 83.991 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 200 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 1.02 billion kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: rice, cassava (tapioca), rubber, corn,
sugarcane, coconuts, soybeans

Exports: $68.2 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Exports - commodities: computers and parts, textiles, integrated
circuits, rice

Exports - partners: US 22%, Japan 14%, Singapore 9%, Hong Kong 5%,
Netherlands 4%, Malaysia 4%, UK 4% (1999)

Imports: $61.8 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Imports - commodities: capital goods, intermediate goods and raw
materials, consumer goods, fuels

Imports - partners: Japan 26%, US 14%, Singapore 6%, China 5%,
Malaysia 5%, Taiwan 5% (1999)

Debt - external: $90 billion (2000 est.)

Economic aid - recipient: $131.5 million (1998 est.)

Currency: baht (THB)

Currency code: THB

Exchange rates: baht per US dollar - 43.078 (January 2001), 40.112
(2000), 37.814 (1999), 41.359 (1998), 31.364 (1997), 25.343 (1996)

Fiscal year: 1 October - 30 September



Thailand    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 5.4 million (1998)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 2.3 million (1998)

Telephone system: general assessment:  service to general public
adequate, but investment in technological upgrades reduced by
recession; bulk of service to government activities provided by
multichannel cable and microwave radio relay network

domestic:  microwave radio relay and multichannel cable; domestic
satellite system being developed

international:  satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat (1 Indian
Ocean and 1 Pacific Ocean)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 204, FM 334, shortwave 6 (1999)

Radios: 13.96 million (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 5 (all in Bangkok; plus 131
repeaters) (1997)

Televisions: 15.19 million (1997)

Internet country code: .th

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 15 (2000)

Internet users: 1 million (2000)



Thailand    Transportation

Railways: total:  3,940 km

narrow gauge:  3,940 km 1.000-m gauge (99 km double track)

Highways: total:  64,600 km

paved:  62,985 km

unpaved:  1,615 km (1996)

Waterways: 4,000 km

note:  3,701 km are navigable throughout the year by boats with
drafts up to 0.9 meters; numerous minor waterways serve
shallow-draft native craft

Pipelines: petroleum products 67 km; natural gas 350 km

Ports and harbors: Bangkok, Laem Chabang, Pattani, Phuket, Sattahip,
Si Racha, Songkhla

Merchant marine: total:  294 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
1,845,972 GRT/2,923,914 DWT

ships by type:  bulk 36, cargo 133, chemical tanker 3, combination
bulk 1, container 14, liquefied gas 20, multi-functional large-load
carrier 3, passenger 1, petroleum tanker 61, refrigerated cargo 13,
roll on/roll off 2, short-sea passenger 2, specialized tanker 5
(2000 est.)

Airports: 110 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  59

over 3,047 m:  6

2,438 to 3,047 m:  11

1,524 to 2,437 m:  21

914 to 1,523 m:  17

under 914 m:  4 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  51

1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

914 to 1,523 m:  16

under 914 m:  34 (2000 est.)

Heliports: 2 (2000 est.)



Thailand    Military

Military branches: Royal Thai Army, Royal Thai Navy (includes Royal
Thai Marine Corps), Royal Thai Air Force, Paramilitary Forces

Military manpower - military age: 18 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  17,717,268 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
10,646,818 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  567,659
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $1.775 billion (FY00)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 1.4% (FY00)



Thailand    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: parts of the border with Laos are
indefinite; parts of border with Cambodia are indefinite; sporadic
border hostilities with Burma over border alignment and ethnic Shan
rebels operating in cross-border region

Illicit drugs: a minor producer of opium, heroin, and marijuana;
illicit transit point for heroin en route to the international drug
market from Burma and Laos; eradication efforts have reduced the
area of cannabis cultivation and shifted some production to
neighboring countries; opium poppy cultivation has been reduced by
eradication efforts; also a drug money-laundering center; minor role
in amphetamine production for regional consumption; increasing
indigenous abuse of methamphetamine

======================================================================

@Togo




Togo    Introduction

Background: French Togoland became Togo in 1960. General Gnassingbe
EYADEMA, installed as military ruler in 1967, is Africa's
longest-serving head of state. Despite the facade of multiparty
elections that resulted in EYADEMA's victory in 1993, the government
continues to be dominated by the military. In addition, Togo has
come under fire from international organizations for human rights
abuses and is plagued by political unrest. Most bilateral and
multilateral aid to Togo remains frozen.



Togo    Geography

Location: Western Africa, bordering the Bight of Benin, between
Benin and Ghana

Geographic coordinates: 8 00 N, 1 10 E

Map references: Africa

Area: total:  56,785 sq km

land:  54,385 sq km

water:  2,400 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly smaller than West Virginia

Land boundaries: total:  1,647 km

border countries:  Benin 644 km, Burkina Faso 126 km, Ghana 877 km

Coastline: 56 km

Maritime claims: exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  30 NM

Climate: tropical; hot, humid in south; semiarid in north

Terrain: gently rolling savanna in north; central hills; southern
plateau; low coastal plain with extensive lagoons and marshes

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Atlantic Ocean 0 m

highest point:  Mont Agou 986 m

Natural resources: phosphates, limestone, marble, arable land

Land use: arable land:  38%

permanent crops:  7%

permanent pastures:  4%

forests and woodland:  17%

other:  34% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 70 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: hot, dry harmattan wind can reduce visibility in
north during winter; periodic droughts

Environment - current issues: deforestation attributable to
slash-and-burn agriculture and the use of wood for fuel; water
pollution presents health hazards and hinders the fishing industry;
air pollution increasing in urban areas

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species, Law of the Sea,
Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical
Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands

signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements



Togo    People

Population: 5,153,088

note:  estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
life expectancy, higher infant mortality and death rates, lower
population and growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  45.63% (male 1,179,650; female 1,171,748)

15-64 years:  51.92% (male 1,302,197; female 1,373,247)

65 years and over:  2.45% (male 54,651; female 71,595) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 2.6% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 37.04 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 11.24 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 0.15 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.03 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.01 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  0.95 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.76 male(s)/female

total population:  0.97 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 70.43 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  54.35 years

male:  52.38 years

female:  56.38 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 5.32 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 5.98% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 130,000 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: 14,000 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Togolese (singular and plural)

adjective:  Togolese

Ethnic groups: native African (37 tribes; largest and most important
are Ewe, Mina, and Kabre) 99%, European and Syrian-Lebanese less
than 1%

Religions: indigenous beliefs 59%, Christian 29%, Muslim 12%

Languages: French (official and the language of commerce), Ewe and
Mina (the two major African languages in the south), Kabye
(sometimes spelled Kabiye) and Dagomba (the two major African
languages in the north)

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  51.7%

male:  67%

female:  37% (1995 est.)



Togo    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Togolese Republic

conventional short form:  Togo

local long form:  Republique Togolaise

local short form:  none

former:  French Togoland

Government type: republic under transition to multiparty democratic
rule

Capital: Lome

Administrative divisions: 5 regions (regions, singular - region); De
La Kara, Des Plateaux, Des Savanes, Du Centre, Maritime

Independence: 27 April 1960 (from French-administered UN trusteeship)

National holiday: Independence Day, 27 April (1960)

Constitution: multiparty draft constitution approved by High Council
of the Republic 1 July 1992; adopted by public referendum 27
September 1992

Legal system: French-based court system

Suffrage: NA years of age; universal adult

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Gen. Gnassingbe EYADEMA
(since 14 April 1967)

head of government:  Prime Minister Agbeyome KODJO (since 29 August
2000)

cabinet:  Council of Ministers appointed by the president and the
prime minister

elections:  president elected by popular vote for a five-year term;
election last held 21 June 1998 (next to be held NA 2003); prime
minister appointed by the president

election results:  Gnassingbe EYADEMA reelected president; percent
of vote - Gnassingbe EYADEMA 52.13%, Gilchrist OLYMPIO 34.12%, other
13.75%

Legislative branch: unicameral National Assembly (81 seats; members
are elected by popular vote to serve five-year terms)

elections:  last held 21 March 1999 (next due to be held NA October
2001)

election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
RPT 79, independents 2

note:  Togo's main opposition parties boycotted the election because
of EYADEMA's alleged manipulation of 1998 presidential polling; in
March of 1999, opposition parties entered into negotiations with the
president over the establishment of an independent electoral
commission and a new round of legislative elections, now scheduled
for October 2001

Judicial branch: Court of Appeal or Cour d'Appel; Supreme Court or
Cour Supreme

Political parties and leaders: Action Committee for Renewal or CAR
[Yawovi AGBOYIBO]; Coordination des Forces Nouvelles or CFN [Joseph
KOFFIGOH]; Democratic Convention of African Peoples or CDPA [Leopold
GNININVI]; Party for Democracy and Renewal or PDR [Zarifou AYEVA];
Patriotic Pan-African Convergence or CPP [Edem KODJO]; Rally of the
Togolese People or RPT [President Gen. Gnassingbe EYADEMA]; Union of
Forces for Change or UFC [Gilchrist OLYMPIO (in exile), Jeane-Pierre
FABRE, general secretary in Togo]; Union of Independent Liberals or
ULI [Jacques AMOUZO]

note:  Rally of the Togolese People or RPT, led by President
EYADEMA, was the only party until the formation of multiple parties
was legalized 12 April 1991

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: ACCT, ACP, AfDB, CCC, ECA,
ECOWAS, Entente, FAO, FZ, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA,
IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, ITU,
MIPONUH, NAM, OAU, OIC, OPCW, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WADB,
WAEMU, WCL, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Akoussoulelov BODJONA

chancery:  2208 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone:  [1] (202) 234-4212

FAX:  [1] (202) 232-3190

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Karl HOFMANN

embassy:  Angle Rue Kouenou and Rue 15 Beniglato, Lome

mailing address:  B. P. 852, Lome

telephone:  [228] 21 29 91 through 21 29 94

FAX:  [228] 21 79 52

Flag description: five equal horizontal bands of green (top and
bottom) alternating with yellow; there is a white five-pointed star
on a red square in the upper hoist-side corner; uses the popular
pan-African colors of Ethiopia



Togo    Economy

Economy - overview: This small sub-Saharan economy is heavily
dependent on both commercial and subsistence agriculture, which
provides employment for 65% of the labor force. Some basic
foodstuffs must still be imported. Together, cocoa, coffee, and
cotton generate some 40% of export earnings, with cotton being the
most significant cash crop despite falling prices on the world
market. In the industrial sector, phosphate mining is by far the
most important activity. Togo is the world's fourth largest
producer, and geological advantages keep production costs low. The
recently privatized mining operation, Office Togolais des Phosphates
(OTP), is slowly recovering from a steep fall in prices in the early
1990's, but continues to face the challenge of tough foreign
competition, exacerbated by weakening demand. Togo serves as a
regional commercial and trade center. It continues to expand its
duty-free export-processing zone (EPZ), launched in 1989, which has
attracted enterprises from France, Italy, Scandinavia, the US,
India, and China and created jobs for Togolese nationals. The
government's decade-long effort, supported by the World Bank and the
IMF, to implement economic reform measures, encourage foreign
investment, and bring revenues in line with expenditures has
stalled. Progress depends on following through on privatization,
increased openness in government financial operations, progress
towards legislative elections, and possible downsizing of the
military, on which the regime has depended to stay in place. Lack of
foreign aid, deterioration of the financial sector, energy
shortages, and depressed commodity prices continue to constrain
economic growth; however, Togo did realize a 3% gain in GDP in 1999.
The takeover of the national power company by a Franco-Canadian
consortium in 2000 should ease the energy crisis and if successful
legislative elections pave the way for increased aid, growth should
rise to 5% a year in 2001-02.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $7.3 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 3.4% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $1,500 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  42%

industry:  21%

services:  37% (1997)

Population below poverty line: 32% (1989 est.)

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 2.5% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 1.74 million (1996)

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture 65%, industry 5%, services
30% (1998 est.)

Unemployment rate: NA%

Budget: revenues:  $232 million

expenditures:  $252 million, including capital expenditures of $NA
(1997 est.)

Industries: phosphate mining, agricultural processing, cement;
handicrafts, textiles, beverages

Industrial production growth rate: NA%

Electricity - production: 92 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  97.83%

hydro:  2.17%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 511.6 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 426 million kWh

note:  electricity supplied by Ghana (1999)

Agriculture - products: coffee, cocoa, cotton, yams, cassava
(tapioca), corn, beans, rice, millet, sorghum; livestock; fish

Exports: $336 million (f.o.b., 2000)

Exports - commodities: cotton, phosphates, coffee, cocoa

Exports - partners: Nigeria, Brazil, Canada, Philippines (1999)

Imports: $452 million (f.o.b., 2000)

Imports - commodities: machinery and equipment, foodstuffs,
petroleum products

Imports - partners: Ghana, China, France, Cote d'Ivoire (1999)

Debt - external: $1.5 billion (1999)

Economic aid - recipient: $201.1 million (1995)

Currency: Communaute Financiere Africaine franc (XOF); note -
responsible authority is the Central Bank of the West African States

Currency code: XOF

Exchange rates: Communaute Financiere Africaine francs (XOF) per US
dollar - 699.21 (January 2001), 711.98 (2000), 615.70 (1999), 589.95
(1998), 583.67 (1997), 511.55 (1996); note - from 1 January 1999,
the XOF is pegged to the euro at a rate of 655.957 XOF per euro

Fiscal year: calendar year



Togo    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 25,000 (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 2,995 (1997)

Telephone system: general assessment:  fair system based on a
network of microwave radio relay routes supplemented by open-wire
lines and a mobile cellular system

domestic:  microwave radio relay and open-wire lines for
conventional system; cellular system has capacity of 10,000
telephones

international:  satellite earth stations - 1 Intelsat (Atlantic
Ocean) and 1 Symphonie

Radio broadcast stations: AM 2, FM 9, shortwave 4 (1998)

Radios: 940,000 (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 3 (plus two repeaters) (1997)

Televisions: 73,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .tg

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 3 (2000)

Internet users: 10,000 (2000)



Togo    Transportation

Railways: total:  525 km (1995)

narrow gauge:  525 km 1.000-m gauge

Highways: total:  7,520 km

paved:  2,376 km

unpaved:  5,144 km (1996)

Waterways: 50 km (Mono river)

Ports and harbors: Kpeme, Lome

Merchant marine: total:  1 ship (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 2,603
GRT/2,800 DWT

ships by type:  specialized tanker 1 (2000 est.)

Airports: 9 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  2

2,438 to 3,047 m:  2 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  7

914 to 1,523 m:  5

under 914 m:  2 (2000 est.)



Togo    Military

Military branches: Army, Navy, Air Force, Gendarmerie

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  1,175,528 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
616,622 (2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $27 million (FY96)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 2% (FY96)



Togo    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

Illicit drugs: transit hub for Nigerian heroin and cocaine
traffickers

======================================================================

@Tokelau





Tokelau    Introduction

Background: Originally settled by Polynesian emigrants from
surrounding island groups, the Tokelau Islands were made a British
protectorate in 1889. They were transferred to New Zealand
administration in 1925. According to a UN report, these low-lying
islands will disappear in the 21st century, if global warming
continues to raise sea levels.



Tokelau    Geography

Location: Oceania, group of three islands in the South Pacific
Ocean, about one-half of the way from Hawaii to New Zealand

Geographic coordinates: 9 00 S, 172 00 W

Map references: Oceania

Area: total:  10 sq km

land:  10 sq km

water:  0 sq km

Area - comparative: about 17 times the size of The Mall in
Washington, DC

Land boundaries: 0 km

Coastline: 101 km

Maritime claims: exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: tropical; moderated by trade winds (April to November)

Terrain: low-lying coral atolls enclosing large lagoons

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Pacific Ocean 0 m

highest point:  unnamed location 5 m

Natural resources: NEGL

Land use: arable land:  0% (soil is thin and infertile)

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  0%

forests and woodland:  0%

other:  100% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: NA sq km

Natural hazards: lies in Pacific typhoon belt

Environment - current issues: very limited natural resources and
overcrowding are contributing to emigration to New Zealand



Tokelau    People

Population: 1,445 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  NA%

15-64 years:  NA%

65 years and over:  NA%

Population growth rate: -0.92% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: NA births/1,000 population

Death rate: NA deaths/1,000 population

Net migration rate: NA migrant(s)/1,000 population

Infant mortality rate: NA deaths/1,000 live births

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  NA years

male:  NA years

female:  NA years

Total fertility rate: NA children born/woman

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: NA%

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: NA

HIV/AIDS - deaths: NA

Nationality: noun:  Tokelauan(s)

adjective:  Tokelauan

Ethnic groups: Polynesian

Religions: Congregational Christian Church 70%, Roman Catholic 28%,
other 2%

note:  on Atafu, all Congregational Christian Church of Samoa; on
Nukunonu, all Roman Catholic; on Fakaofo, both denominations, with
the Congregational Christian Church predominant

Languages: Tokelauan (a Polynesian language), English



Tokelau    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  none

conventional short form:  Tokelau

Dependency status: territory of New Zealand; note - Tokelauans are
drafting a constitution, developing institutions and patterns of
self-government as Tokelau moves toward free association with
Wellington

Government type: NA

Capital: none; each atoll has its own administrative center

Administrative divisions: none (territory of New Zealand)

Independence: none (territory of New Zealand)

National holiday: Waitangi Day (Treaty of Waitangi established
British sovereignty over New Zealand), 6 February (1840)

Constitution: administered under the Tokelau Islands Act of 1948, as
amended in 1970

Legal system: British and local statutes

Suffrage: 21 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6
February 1952); the UK and New Zealand are represented by
Administrator Lindsay WATT (since NA March 1993)

head of government:  Aliki Faipule FALIMATEAO (since NA 1997)

cabinet:  the Council of Faipule, consisting of three elected
leaders, one from each atoll; functions as a cabinet

elections:  none; the monarch is hereditary; administrator appointed
by the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade in New Zealand; the
head of government is chosen from the Council of Faipule and serves
a one-year term

Legislative branch: unicameral General Fono (45 seats - 15 from each
of the three atolls; members chosen by each atoll's Council of
Elders or Taupulega to serve three-year terms); note - the Tokelau
Amendment Act of 1996 confers legislative power on the General Fono

Judicial branch: Supreme Court in New Zealand exercises civil and
criminal jurisdiction in Tokelau

Political parties and leaders: none

Political pressure groups and leaders: none

International organization participation: SPC, WHO (associate)

Diplomatic representation in the US: none (territory of New Zealand)

Diplomatic representation from the US: none (territory of New
Zealand)

Flag description: the flag of New Zealand is used



Tokelau    Economy

Economy - overview: Tokelau's small size (three villages),
isolation, and lack of resources greatly restrain economic
development and confine agriculture to the subsistence level. The
people must rely on aid from New Zealand to maintain public
services, annual aid being substantially greater than GDP. The
principal sources of revenue come from sales of copra, postage
stamps, souvenir coins, and handicrafts. Money is also remitted to
families from relatives in New Zealand.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $1.5 million (1993 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: NA%

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $1,000 (1993 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  NA%

industry:  NA%

services:  NA%

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): NA%

Labor force: NA

Unemployment rate: NA%

Budget: revenues:  $430,830

expenditures:  $2.8 million, including capital expenditures of
$37,300 (1987 est.)

Industries: small-scale enterprises for copra production,
woodworking, plaited craft goods; stamps, coins; fishing

Industrial production growth rate: NA%

Electricity - production: NA kWh

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  NA%

hydro:  NA%

nuclear:  NA%

other:  NA%

Electricity - consumption: NA kWh

Agriculture - products: coconuts, copra, breadfruit, papayas,
bananas; pigs, poultry, goats

Exports: $98,000 (f.o.b., 1983)

Exports - commodities: stamps, copra, handicrafts

Exports - partners: NZ

Imports: $323,400 (c.i.f., 1983)

Imports - commodities: foodstuffs, building materials, fuel

Imports - partners: NZ

Debt - external: $0

Economic aid - recipient: $3.8 million (1995)

Currency: New Zealand dollar (NZD)

Currency code: NZD

Exchange rates: New Zealand dollars per US dollar - 2.2502 (January
2001), 2.1863 (2000), 1.8886 (1999), 1.8632 (1998), 1.5083 (1997),
1.4543 (1996)

Fiscal year: 1 April - 31 March



Tokelau    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: NA

Telephones - mobile cellular: 0 (2001)

Telephone system: general assessment:  adequate

domestic:  radiotelephone service between islands

international:  radiotelephone service to Samoa;
government-regulated telephone service (TeleTok), with 3 satellite
earth stations, established in 1997

Radio broadcast stations: AM NA, FM NA, shortwave NA

note:  each atoll has a radio broadcast station of unknown type that
broadcasts shipping and weather reports (1998)

Radios: 1,000 (1997)

Television broadcast stations: NA

Televisions: NA

Internet country code: .tk

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 1 (2000)

Internet users: NA



Tokelau    Transportation

Railways: 0 km

Highways: total:  NA km

paved:  NA km

unpaved:  NA km

Waterways: none

Ports and harbors: none; offshore anchorage only

Merchant marine: none (2000 est.)

Airports: none; lagoon landings by amphibious aircraft from Samoa



Tokelau    Military

Military - note: defense is the responsibility of New Zealand



Tokelau    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

======================================================================

@Tonga




Tonga    Introduction

Background: The archipelago of "The Friendly Islands" was united
into a Polynesian kingdom in 1845. It became a constitutional
monarchy in 1875 and a British protectorate in 1900. Tonga acquired
its independence in 1970 and became a member of the Commonwealth of
Nations. It remains the only monarchy in the Pacific.



Tonga    Geography

Location: Oceania, archipelago in the South Pacific Ocean, about
two-thirds of the way from Hawaii to New Zealand

Geographic coordinates: 20 00 S, 175 00 W

Map references: Oceania

Area: total:  748 sq km

land:  718 sq km

water:  30 sq km

Area - comparative: four times the size of Washington, DC

Land boundaries: 0 km

Coastline: 419 km

Maritime claims: continental shelf:  200-m depth or to the depth of
exploitation

exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: tropical; modified by trade winds; warm season (December to
May), cool season (May to December)

Terrain: most islands have limestone base formed from uplifted coral
formation; others have limestone overlying volcanic base

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Pacific Ocean 0 m

highest point:  unnamed location on Kao Island 1,033 m

Natural resources: fish, fertile soil

Land use: arable land:  24%

permanent crops:  43%

permanent pastures:  6%

forests and woodland:  11%

other:  16% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: NA sq km

Natural hazards: cyclones (October to April); earthquakes and
volcanic activity on Fonuafo'ou

Environment - current issues: deforestation results as more and more
land is being cleared for agriculture and settlement; some damage to
coral reefs from starfish and indiscriminate coral and shell
collectors; overhunting threatens native sea turtle populations

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Desertification, Law of the Sea, Marine Life
Conservation, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship
Pollution

signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Geography - note: archipelago of 170 islands (36 inhabited)



Tonga    People

Population: 104,227 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  40.93% (male 21,739; female 20,916)

15-64 years:  54.99% (male 28,231; female 29,082)

65 years and over:  4.08% (male 1,912; female 2,347) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 1.79% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 23.59 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 5.74 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  0.97 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.81 male(s)/female

total population:  0.99 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 14.08 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  68.25 years

male:  65.83 years

female:  70.78 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 3 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: NA%

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: NA

HIV/AIDS - deaths: NA

Nationality: noun:  Tongan(s)

adjective:  Tongan

Ethnic groups: Polynesian, Europeans about 300

Religions: Christian (Free Wesleyan Church claims over 30,000
adherents)

Languages: Tongan, English

Literacy: definition:  can read and write Tongan and/or English

total population:  98.5%

male:  98.4%

female:  98.7% (1996 est.)



Tonga    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Kingdom of Tonga

conventional short form:  Tonga

former:  Friendly Islands

Government type: hereditary constitutional monarchy

Capital: Nuku'alofa

Administrative divisions: 3 island groups; Ha'apai, Tongatapu, Vava'u

Independence: 4 June 1970 (from UK protectorate)

National holiday: Independence Day, 4 June (1970)

Constitution: 4 November 1875, revised 1 January 1967

Legal system: based on English law

Suffrage: 21 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  King Taufa'ahau TUPOU IV (since
16 December 1965)

head of government:  Prime Minister Prince Lavaka ata ULUKALALA
(since NA February 2000) and Deputy Prime Minister Tevita TOPOU
(since NA January 2001)

cabinet:  Cabinet appointed by the monarch

note:  there is also a Privy Council that consists of the monarch
and the Cabinet

elections:  none; the monarch is hereditary; prime minister and
deputy prime minister appointed for life by the monarch

Legislative branch: unicameral Legislative Assembly or Fale Alea (30
seats - 12 reserved for cabinet ministers sitting ex officio, nine
for nobles selected by the country's 33 nobles, and nine elected by
popular vote; members serve three-year terms)

elections:  last held NA March 1999 (next to be held NA 2002)

election results:  percent of vote - pro-democratic 40%; seats -
pro-democratic 5, traditionalist 4

Judicial branch: Supreme Court (judges are appointed by the
monarch); Court of Appeal (consists of the Privy Council with the
addition of the chief justice of the Supreme Court)

Political parties and leaders: Human Rights and Democracy Movement
[Huliki WATAB, chairman, Viliami FUKOFUKA, president, 'Akilisi
POHIVA, vice president]

Political pressure groups and leaders: Pro-Democracy and Human
Rights Movement [leader NA]

International organization participation: ACP, AsDB, C, ESCAP, FAO,
G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, IMF, IMO,
Intelsat (nonsignatory user), Interpol, IOC, ITU, Sparteca, SPC,
SPF, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTrO (observer)

Diplomatic representation in the US: Tonga does not have an embassy
in the US; Ambassador Fetu'utolo TUPOU, resides in London; address:
Embassy of the Kingdom of Tonga, c/o Tonga High Commission, 36
Molyneux Street, London W1H 6AB, telephone [44] (171) 724-5828, FAX
[44] (171) 723-9074

consulate(s) general:  San Francisco

Diplomatic representation from the US: the US does not have an
embassy in Tonga; the ambassador to Fiji is accredited to Tonga

Flag description: red with a bold red cross on a white rectangle in
the upper hoist-side corner



Tonga    Economy

Economy - overview: Tonga has a small, open economy with a narrow
export base in agricultural goods, which contributes 30% to GDP.
Squash, coconuts, bananas, and vanilla beans are the main crops, and
agricultural exports make up two-thirds of total exports. The
country must import a high proportion of its food, mainly from New
Zealand. The industrial sector accounts for only 10% of GDP. Tourism
is the primary source of hard currency earnings. The country remains
dependent on sizable external aid and remittances from Tongan
communities overseas to offset its trade deficit. The government is
emphasizing the development of the private sector, especially the
encouragement of investment, and is committing increased funds for
health and education. Tonga has a reasonable basic infrastructure
and well-developed social services.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $225 million (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 5% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $2,200 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  30%

industry:  10%

services:  60% (1997)

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 7% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 34,000 (FY96/97)

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture 65% (1997 est.)

Unemployment rate: 13.3% (FY96/97)

Budget: revenues:  $49 million

expenditures:  $120 million, including capital expenditures of $75
million (FY96/97 est.)

Industries: tourism, fishing

Industrial production growth rate: 8.6% (FY98/99)

Electricity - production: 35 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  100%

hydro:  0%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 32.6 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: squash, coconuts, copra, bananas, vanilla
beans, cocoa, coffee, ginger, black pepper; fish

Exports: $8 million (f.o.b., 1998)

Exports - commodities: squash, fish, vanilla beans

Exports - partners: Japan 53%, US 18%, NZ 6%, Australia 6% (1997
est.)

Imports: $69 million (f.o.b., 1998)

Imports - commodities: foodstuffs, machinery and transport
equipment, fuels, chemicals

Imports - partners: NZ 30%, Australia 19%, US 11%, UK 11%, Japan 3%
(1997 est.)

Debt - external: $62 million (1998)

Economic aid - recipient: $38.8 million (1995)

Currency: pa'anga (TOP)

Currency code: TOP

Exchange rates: pa'anga per US dollar - 1.9885 (January 2001),
1.7585 (2000), 1.5991 (1999), 1.4920 (1998), 1.2635 (1997), 1.2323
(1996)

Fiscal year: 1 July - 30 June



Tonga    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 8,000 (1996)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 302 (1996)

Telephone system: general assessment:  NA

domestic:  NA

international:  satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (Pacific Ocean)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 1, FM 2, shortwave 1 (2001)

Radios: 61,000 (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 1 (2001)

Televisions: 2,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .to

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 2 (2000)

Internet users: 1,000 (2000)



Tonga    Transportation

Railways: 0 km

Highways: total:  680 km

paved:  184 km

unpaved:  496 km (1996)

Waterways: none

Ports and harbors: Neiafu, Nuku'alofa, Pangai

Merchant marine: total:  8 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 20,626
GRT/29,468 DWT

ships by type:  bulk 1, cargo 2, liquefied gas 3, petroleum tanker
1, roll on/roll off 1 (2000 est.)

Airports: 6 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  1

2,438 to 3,047 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  5

1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

914 to 1,523 m:  2

under 914 m:  2 (2000 est.)



Tonga    Military

Military branches: Tonga Defense Services (includes Royal Tongan
Marines, Tongan Royal Guards, Maritime Force, Police); note - a new
Air Wing which will be subordinate to the Defense Ministry is being
developed

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $NA

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: NA%



Tonga    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

======================================================================

@Trinidad and Tobago




Trinidad and Tobago    Introduction

Background: The islands came under British control in the 19th
century; independence was granted in 1962. The country is one of the
most prosperous in the Caribbean thanks largely to petroleum and
natural gas production and processing. Tourism, mostly in Tobago, is
targeted for expansion and is growing.



Trinidad and Tobago    Geography

Location: Caribbean, islands between the Caribbean Sea and the North
Atlantic Ocean, northeast of Venezuela

Geographic coordinates: 11 00 N, 61 00 W

Map references: Central America and the Caribbean

Area: total:  5,128 sq km

land:  5,128 sq km

water:  0 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly smaller than Delaware

Land boundaries: 0 km

Coastline: 362 km

Maritime claims: contiguous zone:  24 NM

continental shelf:  200 NM or to the outer edge of the continental
margin

exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: tropical; rainy season (June to December)

Terrain: mostly plains with some hills and low mountains

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Caribbean Sea 0 m

highest point:  El Cerro del Aripo 940 m

Natural resources: petroleum, natural gas, asphalt

Land use: arable land:  15%

permanent crops:  9%

permanent pastures:  2%

forests and woodland:  46%

other:  28% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 220 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: outside usual path of hurricanes and other tropical
storms

Environment - current issues: water pollution from agricultural
chemicals, industrial wastes, and raw sewage; oil pollution of
beaches; deforestation; soil erosion

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification,
Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Life
Conservation, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship
Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands

signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements



Trinidad and Tobago    People

Population: 1,169,682 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  24.1% (male 143,730; female 138,160)

15-64 years:  69.2% (male 415,898; female 393,551)

65 years and over:  6.7% (male 34,785; female 43,558) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: -0.51% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 13.73 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 8.82 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: -9.97 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1.06 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.8 male(s)/female

total population:  1.03 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 24.98 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  68.27 years

male:  65.74 years

female:  70.92 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 1.81 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 1.05% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 7,800 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: 530 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Trinidadian(s), Tobagonian(s)

adjective:  Trinidadian, Tobagonian

Ethnic groups: black 39.5%, East Indian (a local term - primarily
immigrants from northern India) 40.3%, mixed 18.4%, white 0.6%,
Chinese and other 1.2%

Religions: Roman Catholic 29.4%, Hindu 23.8%, Anglican 10.9%, Muslim
5.8%, Presbyterian 3.4%, other 26.7%

Languages: English (official), Hindi, French, Spanish, Chinese

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  97.9%

male:  98.8%

female:  97% (1995 est.)



Trinidad and Tobago    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Republic of Trinidad and
Tobago

conventional short form:  Trinidad and Tobago

Government type: parliamentary democracy

Capital: Port-of-Spain

Administrative divisions: 8 counties, 3 municipalities*, and 1
ward**; Arima*, Caroni, Mayaro, Nariva, Port-of-Spain*, Saint
Andrew, Saint David, Saint George, Saint Patrick, San Fernando*,
Tobago**, Victoria

Independence: 31 August 1962 (from UK)

National holiday: Independence Day, 31 August (1962)

Constitution: 1 August 1976

Legal system: based on English common law; judicial review of
legislative acts in the Supreme Court; has not accepted compulsory
ICJ jurisdiction

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Arthur Napoleon Raymond
ROBINSON (since 19 March 1997)

head of government:  Prime Minister Basdeo PANDAY (since 9 November
1995)

cabinet:  Cabinet appointed from among the members of Parliament

elections:  president elected by an electoral college, which
consists of the members of the Senate and House of Representatives,
for a five-year term; election last held 11 December 2000 (next to
be held by NA 2005); prime minister appointed from among the members
of Parliament; following legislative elections, the leader of the
majority party in the House of Representatives is usually appointed
prime minister

election results:  Arthur Napoleon Raymond ROBINSON elected
president; percent of electoral college vote - 69%

Legislative branch: bicameral Parliament consists of the Senate (31
seats; members appointed by the president for a maximum term of five
years) and the House of Representatives (36 seats; members are
elected by popular vote to serve five-year terms)

elections:  House of Representatives - last held 11 December 2000
(next to be held by December 2005)

election results:  House of Representatives - percent of vote - UNC
58.1%, PNM 40.8%, NAR 1.1%; seats by party - UNC 19, PNM 16, NAR 1

note:  Tobago has a unicameral House of Assembly, with 15 members
serving four-year terms

Judicial branch: Supreme Court of Judicature (comprised of the High
Court of Justice and the Court of Appeals; the chief justice is
appointed by the president on the advice of the prime minister and
the leader of the opposition; other justices are appointed by the
president on the advice of the Judicial and Legal Service
Commission); High Court of Justice; Court of Appeals; The Majistracy
(hears minor civil cases and summary criminal cases)

Political parties and leaders: National Alliance for Reconstruction
or NAR [Hochay CHARLES]; People's Empowerment Party or PEP [leader
NA]; People's National Movement or PNM [Patrick MANNING]; United
National Congress or UNC [Basdeo PANDAY]

Political pressure groups and leaders: Jamaat Al Musilmeen [Abu BAKR]

International organization participation: ACP, C, Caricom, CCC, CDB,
ECLAC, FAO, G-24, G-77, IADB, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IFAD,
IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, ISO, ITU,
LAES, NAM, OAS, OPANAL, OPCW, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNU, UPU,
WCL, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTrO

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
(vacant)

chancery:  1708 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20036

telephone:  [1] (202) 467-6490

FAX:  [1] (202) 785-3130

consulate(s) general:  Miami and New York

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Edward E. SHUMAKER, III (until April, 2001)

embassy:  15 Queen's Park West, Port-of-Spain

mailing address:  P. O. Box 752, Port-of-Spain

telephone:  [1] (868) 622-6371 through 6376, 6176

FAX:  [1] (868) 628-5462

Flag description: red with a white-edged black diagonal band from
the upper hoist side



Trinidad and Tobago    Economy

Economy - overview: Trinidad and Tobago has earned a reputation as
an excellent investment site for international businesses.
Successful economic reforms were implemented in 1995, and foreign
investment and trade are flourishing. Persistently high unemployment
remains one of the chief challenges of the government. The
petrochemical sector has spurred growth in other related sectors,
reinforcing the government's commitment to economic diversification.
Tourism is growing, especially in the pleasure boat sector. New
investment and construction also will continue to drive the economy.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $11.2 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 5% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $9,500 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  2%

industry:  44%

services:  54% (1998 est.)

Population below poverty line: 21% (1992 est.)

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 3.2% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 558,700 (1998)

Labor force - by occupation: construction and utilities 12.4%,
manufacturing, mining, and quarrying 14%, agriculture 9.5%, services
64.1% (1997 est.)

Unemployment rate: 12.8% (2000)

Budget: revenues:  $1.54 billion

expenditures:  $1.6 billion, including capital expenditures of
$117.3 million (1998)

Industries: petroleum, chemicals, tourism, food processing, cement,
beverage, cotton textiles

Industrial production growth rate: 3.8% (2000)

Electricity - production: 4.9 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  99.59%

hydro:  0%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0.41% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 4.557 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: cocoa, sugarcane, rice, citrus, coffee,
vegetables; poultry

Exports: $3.2 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Exports - commodities: petroleum and petroleum products, chemicals,
steel products, fertilizer, sugar, cocoa, coffee, citrus, flowers

Exports - partners: US 39.3%, Caricom countries 26.1%, Latin America
9.5%, EU 5.7% (1999)

Imports: $3 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Imports - commodities: machinery, transportation equipment,
manufactured goods, food, live animals

Imports - partners: US 39.8%, Venezuela 11.9%, EU 11%, Caricom 4.8%
(1999)

Debt - external: $2.8 billion (2000 est.)

Economic aid - recipient: $121.4 million (1995)

Currency: Trinidad and Tobago dollar (TTD)

Currency code: TTD

Exchange rates: Trinidad and Tobago dollars per US dollar - 6.2688
(January 2001), 6.2998 (2000), 6.2989 (1999), 6.2983 (1998), 6.2517
(1997), 6.0051 (1996)

Fiscal year: 1 October - 30 September



Trinidad and Tobago    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 243,000 (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 17,411 (1997)

Telephone system: general assessment:  excellent international
service; good local service

domestic:  NA

international:  satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (Atlantic
Ocean); tropospheric scatter to Barbados and Guyana

Radio broadcast stations: AM 2, FM 12, shortwave 0 (1998)

Radios: 680,000 (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 4 (1997)

Televisions: 425,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .tt

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 17 (2000)

Internet users: 30,000 (2000)



Trinidad and Tobago    Transportation

Railways: minimal agricultural railroad system near San Fernando;
railway service was discontinued in 1968

Highways: total:  8,320 km

paved:  4,252 km

unpaved:  4,068 km (1996)

Waterways: none

Pipelines: crude oil 1,032 km; petroleum products 19 km; natural gas
904 km

Ports and harbors: Pointe-a-Pierre, Point Fortin, Point Lisas,
Port-of-Spain, Scarborough, Tembladora

Merchant marine: total:  2 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 2,439
GRT/4,040 DWT

ships by type:  cargo 1, petroleum tanker 1 (2000 est.)

Airports: 6 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  3

over 3,047 m:  1

2,438 to 3,047 m:  1

1,524 to 2,437 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  3

914 to 1,523 m:  1

under 914 m:  2 (2000 est.)



Trinidad and Tobago    Military

Military branches: Trinidad and Tobago Defense Force (includes
Ground Forces, Coast Guard, and Air Wing), Trinidad and Tobago
Police Service

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  346,043 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
247,297 (2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $83 million (FY94)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: NA%



Trinidad and Tobago    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

Illicit drugs: transshipment point for South American drugs destined
for the US and Europe; producer of cannabis

======================================================================

@Tromelin Island





Tromelin Island    Introduction

Background: First explored by the French in 1776, the island came
under the jurisdiction of Reunion in 1814. At present, it serves as
a sea turtle sanctuary and is the site of an important
meteorological station.



Tromelin Island    Geography

Location: Southern Africa, island in the Indian Ocean, east of
Madagascar

Geographic coordinates: 15 52 S, 54 25 E

Map references: Africa

Area: total:  1 sq km

land:  1 sq km

water:  0 sq km

Area - comparative: about 1.7 times the size of The Mall in
Washington, DC

Land boundaries: 0 km

Coastline: 3.7 km

Maritime claims: continental shelf:  200-m depth or to the depth of
exploitation

exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: tropical

Terrain: low, flat, and sandy

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Indian Ocean 0 m

highest point:  unnamed location 7 m

Natural resources: fish

Land use: arable land:  0%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  0%

forests and woodland:  0%

other:  100% (scattered bushes)

Irrigated land: 0 sq km (1993)

Natural hazards: NA

Environment - current issues: NA

Geography - note: climatologically important location for
forecasting cyclones; wildlife sanctuary



Tromelin Island    People

Population: uninhabited (July 2001 est.)



Tromelin Island    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  none

conventional short form:  Tromelin Island

local long form:  none

local short form:  Ile Tromelin

Dependency status: possession of France; administered by a high
commissioner of the Republic, resident in Reunion

Legal system: the laws of France, where applicable, apply

Flag description: the flag of France is used



Tromelin Island    Economy

Economy - overview: no economic activity



Tromelin Island    Communications

Communications - note: important meteorological station



Tromelin Island    Transportation

Waterways: none

Ports and harbors: none; offshore anchorage only

Airports: 1 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  1

under 914 m:  1 (2000 est.)



Tromelin Island    Military

Military - note: defense is the responsibility of France



Tromelin Island    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: claimed by Madagascar and Mauritius

======================================================================

@Tunisia




Tunisia    Introduction

Background: Following independence from France in 1956, President
Habib BOURGIUBA established a strict one-party state. He dominated
the country for 31 years, repressing Islamic fundamentalism and
establishing rights for women unmatched by any other Arab nation. In
recent years, Tunisia has taken a moderate, non-aligned stance in
its foreign relations. Domestically, it has sought to diffuse rising
pressure for a more open political society.



Tunisia    Geography

Location: Northern Africa, bordering the Mediterranean Sea, between
Algeria and Libya

Geographic coordinates: 34 00 N, 9 00 E

Map references: Africa

Area: total:  163,610 sq km

land:  155,360 sq km

water:  8,250 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly larger than Georgia

Land boundaries: total:  1,424 km

border countries:  Algeria 965 km, Libya 459 km

Coastline: 1,148 km

Maritime claims: contiguous zone:  24 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: temperate in north with mild, rainy winters and hot, dry
summers; desert in south

Terrain: mountains in north; hot, dry central plain; semiarid south
merges into the Sahara

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Shatt al Gharsah -17 m

highest point:  Jebel ech Chambi 1,544 m

Natural resources: petroleum, phosphates, iron ore, lead, zinc, salt

Land use: arable land:  19%

permanent crops:  13%

permanent pastures:  20%

forests and woodland:  4%

other:  44% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 3,850 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: NA

Environment - current issues: toxic and hazardous waste disposal is
ineffective and presents human health risks; water pollution from
raw sewage; limited natural fresh water resources; deforestation;
overgrazing; soil erosion; desertification

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental
Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping,
Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands

signed, but not ratified:  Marine Life Conservation

Geography - note: strategic location in central Mediterranean; Malta
and Tunisia are discussing the commercial exploitation of the
continental shelf between their countries, particularly for oil
exploration



Tunisia    People

Population: 9,705,102 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  28.74% (male 1,440,636; female 1,348,133)

15-64 years:  65.12% (male 3,157,988; female 3,161,596)

65 years and over:  6.14% (male 296,930; female 299,819) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 1.15% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 17.11 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 4.99 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: -0.67 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.08 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.07 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.99 male(s)/female

total population:  1.02 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 29.04 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  73.92 years

male:  72.35 years

female:  75.62 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 1.99 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 0.04% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: NA

HIV/AIDS - deaths: NA

Nationality: noun:  Tunisian(s)

adjective:  Tunisian

Ethnic groups: Arab 98%, European 1%, Jewish and other 1%

Religions: Muslim 98%, Christian 1%, Jewish and other 1%

Languages: Arabic (official and one of the languages of commerce),
French (commerce)

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  66.7%

male:  78.6%

female:  54.6% (1995 est.)



Tunisia    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Republic of Tunisia

conventional short form:  Tunisia

local long form:  Al Jumhuriyah at Tunisiyah

local short form:  Tunis

Government type: republic

Capital: Tunis

Administrative divisions: 23 governorates; Ariana (Aryanah), Beja
(Bajah), Ben Arous (Bin 'Arus), Bizerte (Banzart), El Kef (Al Kaf),
Gabes (Qabis), Gafsa (Qafsah), Jendouba (Jundubah), Kairouan (Al
Qayrawan), Kasserine (Al Qasrayn), Kebili (Qibili), Mahdia (Al
Mahdiyah), Medenine (Madanin), Monastir (Al Munastir), Nabeul
(Nabul), Sfax (Safaqis), Sidi Bou Zid (Sidi Bu Zayd), Siliana
(Silyanah), Sousse (Susah), Tataouine (Tatawin), Tozeur (Tawzar),
Tunis, Zaghouan (Zaghwan)

Independence: 20 March 1956 (from France)

National holiday: Independence Day, 20 March (1956)

Constitution: 1 June 1959; amended 12 July 1988

Legal system: based on French civil law system and Islamic law; some
judicial review of legislative acts in the Supreme Court in joint
session

Suffrage: 20 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Zine El Abidine BEN ALI
(since 7 November 1987)

head of government:  Prime Minister Mohamed GHANNOUCHI (since 17
November 1999)

cabinet:  Council of Ministers appointed by the president

elections:  president elected by popular vote for a five-year term;
election last held 24 October 1999 (next to be held NA 2004); prime
minister appointed by the president

election results:  President Zine El Abidine BEN ALI reelected for a
third term without opposition; percent of vote - Zine El Abidine BEN
ALI nearly 100%

Legislative branch: unicameral Chamber of Deputies or Majlis
al-Nuwaab (182 seats; members elected by popular vote to serve
five-year terms)

elections:  last held 24 October 1999 (next to be held NA 2004)

election results:  percent of vote by party - RCD 92%; seats by
party - RCD 148, MDS 13, UDU 7, PUP 7, Al-Tajdid 5, PSL 2; note -
reforms enabled opposition parties to win up to 20% of seats; the
opposition increased number of seats from 19 to 34

Judicial branch: Court of Cassation or Cour de Cassation

Political parties and leaders: Al-Tajdid Movement [Adel CHAOUCH];
Constitutional Democratic Rally Party (Rassemblement Constitutionnel
Democratique) or RCD [President Zine El Abidine BEN ALI (official
ruling party)]; Liberal Social Party or PSL [Mounir BEJI]; Movement
of Democratic Socialists or MDS [Khamis CHAMMARI]; Popular Unity
Party or PUP [Mohamed Belhaj AMOR]; Unionist Democratic Union or UDU
[Abderrahmane TLILI]

Political pressure groups and leaders: the Islamic fundamentalist
party, Al Nahda (Renaissance), is outlawed

International organization participation: ABEDA, ACCT, AfDB, AFESD,
AL, AMF, AMU, BSEC (observer), CCC, ECA, FAO, G-77, IAEA, IBRD,
ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF,
IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO, ITU, MIPONUH,
MONUC, NAM, OAS (observer), OAU, OIC, OPCW, OSCE (partner), UN, UN
Security Council (temporary), UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNMEE,
UNMIBH, UNMIK, UPU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Hatem ATALLAH

chancery:  1515 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20005

telephone:  [1] (202) 862-1850

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Rust DEMMING

embassy:  144 Avenue de la Liberte, 1002 Tunis-Belvedere

mailing address:  use embassy street address

telephone:  [216] (1) 782-566

FAX:  [216] (1) 789-719

Flag description: red with a white disk in the center bearing a red
crescent nearly encircling a red five-pointed star; the crescent and
star are traditional symbols of Islam



Tunisia    Economy

Economy - overview: Tunisia has a diverse economy, with important
agricultural, mining, energy, tourism, and manufacturing sectors.
Governmental control of economic affairs while still heavy has
gradually lessened over the past decade with increasing
privatization, simplification of the tax structure, and a prudent
approach to debt. Real growth averaged 5.5% in the past four years,
and inflation is slowing. Growth in tourism and increased trade have
been key elements in this steady growth. Tunisia's association
agreement with the European Union entered into force on 1 March
1998, the first such accord between the EU and Mediterranean
countries to be activated. Under the agreement Tunisia will
gradually remove barriers to trade with the EU over the next decade.
Broader privatization, further liberalization of the investment code
to increase foreign investment, and improvements in government
efficiency are among the challenges for the future.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $62.8 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 5% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $6,500 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  14%

industry:  32%

services:  54% (1999 est.)

Population below poverty line: 6% (2000 est.)

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:
2.3%

highest 10%:  30.7% (1990)

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 3% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 2.65 million (2000 est.)

note:  shortage of skilled labor

Labor force - by occupation: services 55%, industry 23%, agriculture
22% (1995 est.)

Unemployment rate: 15.6% (2000 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $7.5 billion

expenditures:  $8.1 billion, including capital expenditures to $1.6
billion (2000 est.)

Industries: petroleum, mining (particularly phosphate and iron ore),
tourism, textiles, footwear, food, beverages

Industrial production growth rate: 4.1% (2000 est.)

Electricity - production: 9.173 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  99.2%

hydro:  0.8%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 8.677 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 19 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 165 million kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: olives, olive oil, grain, dairy products,
tomatoes, citrus fruit, beef, sugar beets, dates, almonds

Exports: $6.1 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Exports - commodities: textiles, mechanical goods, phosphates and
chemicals, agricultural products, hydrocarbons

Exports - partners: Germany 28%, France 22%, Italy 17%, Belgium 5%,
Libya 4% (1999)

Imports: $8.4 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Imports - commodities: machinery and equipment, hydrocarbons,
chemicals, food

Imports - partners: France 23%, Germany 23%, Italy 15%, Belgium 3%
(1999)

Debt - external: $13 billion (2000 est.)

Economic aid - recipient: $933.2 million (1995); note - ODA, $90
million (1998 est.)

Currency: Tunisian dinar (TND)

Currency code: TND

Exchange rates: Tunisian dinars per US dollar - 1.3753 (January
2001), 1.4667 (November 2000), 1.1862 (1999), 1.1387 (1998), 1.1059
(1997), 0.9734 (1996)

Fiscal year: calendar year



Tunisia    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 654,000 (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 50,000 (1998)

Telephone system: general assessment:  above the African average and
continuing to be upgraded; key centers are Sfax, Sousse, Bizerte,
and Tunis; Internet access available

domestic:  trunk facilities consist of open-wire lines, coaxial
cable, and microwave radio relay

international:  5 submarine cables; satellite earth stations - 1
Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean) and 1 Arabsat; coaxial cable and microwave
radio relay to Algeria and Libya; participant in Medarabtel; two
international gateway digital switches

Radio broadcast stations: AM 7, FM 20, shortwave 2 (1998)

Radios: 2.06 million (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 26 (plus 76 repeaters) (1995)

Televisions: 920,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .tn

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 1 (2000)

Internet users: 110,000 (2000)



Tunisia    Transportation

Railways: total:  2,168 km

standard gauge:  471 km 1.435-m gauge

narrow gauge:  1,687 km 1.000-m gauge

dual gauge:  10 km 1.000-m and 1.435-m gauges (three rails)

Highways: total:  23,100 km

paved:  18,226 km

unpaved:  4,874 km (1996)

Waterways: none

Pipelines: crude oil 797 km; petroleum products 86 km; natural gas
742 km

Ports and harbors: Bizerte, Gabes, La Goulette, Sfax, Sousse, Tunis,
Zarzis

Merchant marine: total:  15 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
149,554 GRT/156,861 DWT

ships by type:  bulk 2, cargo 4, chemical tanker 3, liquefied gas 1,
petroleum tanker 1, short-sea passenger 3, specialized tanker 1
(2000 est.)

Airports: 32 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  15

over 3,047 m:  3

2,438 to 3,047 m:  6

1,524 to 2,437 m:  3

914 to 1,523 m:  3 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  17

1,524 to 2,437 m:  2

914 to 1,523 m:  8

under 914 m:  7 (2000 est.)



Tunisia    Military

Military branches: Army, Navy, Air Force, paramilitary forces,
National Guard

Military manpower - military age: 20 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  2,739,566 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
1,561,484 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  105,146
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $356 million (FY99)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 1.5% (FY99)



Tunisia    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

======================================================================

@Turkey




Turkey    Introduction

Background: Turkey was created in 1923 from the Turkish remnants of
the Ottoman Empire. Soon thereafter the country instituted secular
laws to replace traditional religious fiats. In 1945 Turkey joined
the UN and in 1952 it became a member of NATO. Turkey occupied the
northern portion of Cyprus in 1974 to prevent a Greek takeover of
the island; relations between the two countries remain strained.
Periodic military offensives against Kurdish separatists have
dislocated part of the population in southeast Turkey and have drawn
international condemnation.



Turkey    Geography

Location: southeastern Europe and southwestern Asia (that portion of
Turkey west of the Bosporus is geographically part of Europe),
bordering the Black Sea, between Bulgaria and Georgia, and bordering
the Aegean Sea and the Mediterranean Sea, between Greece and Syria

Geographic coordinates: 39 00 N, 35 00 E

Map references: Middle East

Area: total:  780,580 sq km

land:  770,760 sq km

water:  9,820 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly larger than Texas

Land boundaries: total:  2,627 km

border countries:  Armenia 268 km, Azerbaijan 9 km, Bulgaria 240 km,
Georgia 252 km, Greece 206 km, Iran 499 km, Iraq 331 km, Syria 822 km

Coastline: 7,200 km

Maritime claims: exclusive economic zone:  in Black Sea only: to the
maritime boundary agreed upon with the former USSR

territorial sea:  6 NM in the Aegean Sea; 12 NM in Black Sea and in
Mediterranean Sea

Climate: temperate; hot, dry summers with mild, wet winters; harsher
in interior

Terrain: mostly mountains; narrow coastal plain; high central
plateau (Anatolia)

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Mediterranean Sea 0 m

highest point:  Mount Ararat 5,166 m

Natural resources: antimony, coal, chromium, mercury, copper,
borate, sulfur, iron ore, arable land, hydropower

Land use: arable land:  32%

permanent crops:  4%

permanent pastures:  16%

forests and woodland:  26%

other:  22% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 36,740 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: very severe earthquakes, especially in northern
Turkey, along an arc extending from the Sea of Marmara to Lake Van

Environment - current issues: water pollution from dumping of
chemicals and detergents; air pollution, particularly in urban
areas; deforestation; concern for oil spills from increasing
Bosporus ship traffic

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Air Pollution,
Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Desertification, Endangered Species,
Hazardous Wastes, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship
Pollution, Wetlands

signed, but not ratified:  Antarctic-Environmental Protocol,
Environmental Modification

Geography - note: strategic location controlling the Turkish Straits
(Bosporus, Sea of Marmara, Dardanelles) that link Black and Aegean
Seas



Turkey    People

Population: 66,493,970 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  28.42% (male 9,620,291; female 9,276,347)

15-64 years:  65.45% (male 22,116,599; female 21,401,165)

65 years and over:  6.13% (male 1,878,571; female 2,200,997) (2001
est.)

Population growth rate: 1.24% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 18.31 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 5.95 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1.03 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.85 male(s)/female

total population:  1.02 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 47.34 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  71.24 years

male:  68.89 years

female:  73.71 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 2.12 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 0.01% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: NA

HIV/AIDS - deaths: NA

Nationality: noun:  Turk(s)

adjective:  Turkish

Ethnic groups: Turkish 80%, Kurdish 20%

Religions: Muslim 99.8% (mostly Sunni), other 0.2% (Christian and
Jews)

Languages: Turkish (official), Kurdish, Arabic, Armenian, Greek

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  85%

male:  94%

female:  77% (2000)



Turkey    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Republic of Turkey

conventional short form:  Turkey

local long form:  Turkiye Cumhuriyeti

local short form:  Turkiye

Government type: republican parliamentary democracy

Capital: Ankara

Administrative divisions: 80 provinces (iller, singular - il);
Adana, Adiyaman, Afyon, Agri, Aksaray, Amasya, Ankara, Antalya,
Ardahan, Artvin, Aydin, Balikesir, Bartin, Batman, Bayburt, Bilecik,
Bingol, Bitlis, Bolu, Burdur, Bursa, Canakkale, Cankiri, Corum,
Denizli, Diyarbakir, Edirne, Elazig, Erzincan, Erzurum, Eskisehir,
Gaziantep, Giresun, Gumushane, Hakkari, Hatay, Icel, Igdir, Isparta,
Istanbul, Izmir, Kahramanmaras, Karabuk, Karaman, Kars, Kastamonu,
Kayseri, Kilis, Kirikkale, Kirklareli, Kirsehir, Kocaeli, Konya,
Kutahya, Malatya, Manisa, Mardin, Mugla, Mus, Nevsehir, Nigde, Ordu,
Osmaniye, Rize, Sakarya, Samsun, Sanliurfa, Siirt, Sinop, Sirnak,
Sivas, Tekirdag, Tokat, Trabzon, Tunceli, Usak, Van, Yalova, Yozgat,
Zonguldak; note - there may be another province called Duzce

Independence: 29 October 1923 (successor state to the Ottoman Empire)

National holiday: Independence Day, 29 October (1923)

Constitution: 7 November 1982

Legal system: derived from various European continental legal
systems; accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction, with reservations

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Ahmed Necdet SEZER
(since 16 May 2000)

head of government:  Prime Minister Bulent ECEVIT (since 11 January
1999)

cabinet:  Council of Ministers appointed by the president on the
nomination of the prime minister

note:  there is also a National Security Council that serves as an
advisory body to the president and the cabinet

elections:  president elected by the National Assembly for a
seven-year term; election last held 5 May 2000 (next scheduled to be
held NA May 2007); prime minister and deputy prime minister
appointed by the president

election results:  Ahmed Necdet SEZER elected president on the third
ballot; percent of National Assembly vote - 60%

note:  president must have a two-thirds majority of the National
Assembly on the first two ballots and a simple majority on the third
ballot

Legislative branch: unicameral Grand National Assembly of Turkey or
Turkiye Buyuk Millet Meclisi (550 seats; members are elected by
popular vote to serve five-year terms)

elections:  last held 18 April 1999 (next to be held NA 2004)

election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
DSP 136, MHP 130, FP 110, DYP 86, ANAP 88; note - as of 7 March 2000
seating was DSP 136, MHP 127, FP 103, DYP 85, ANAP 88 independents
6, vacancies 5

Judicial branch: Constitutional Court (judges are appointed by the
president); Court of Appeals (judges are elected by the Supreme
Council of Judges and Prosecutors)

Political parties and leaders: Democratic Left Party or DSP [Bulent
ECEVIT]; Motherland Party or ANAP [Mesut YILMAZ]; Nationalist Action
Party or MHP [Devlet BAHCELI]; True Path Party or DYP [Tansu
CILLER]; Virtue Party or FP [Recai KUTAN]; note - in June 2001,
Turkey's Constitutional Court banned the party; its representatives
(except for two) can stay on in the Grand National Assembly as
independents

note:  Welfare Party or RP [Necmettin ERBAKAN] was officially
outlawed on 22 February 1998

Political pressure groups and leaders: Confederation of
Revolutionary Workers Unions or DISK [Ridvan BUDAK]; Independent
Industrialists and Businessmen's Association or MUSIAD [Erol YARAR];
Moral Rights Workers Union or Hak-Is [Salim USLU]; Turkish
Industrialists' and Businessmen's Association or TUSIAD [Muharrem
KAYHAN]; Turkish Confederation of Employers' Unions or TISK [Refik
BAYDUR]; Turkish Confederation of Labor or Turk-Is [Bayram MERAL];
Turkish Union of Chambers of Commerce and Commodity Exchanges or
TOBB [Fuat MIRAS]

International organization participation: AsDB, Australia Group,
BIS, BSEC, CCC, CE, CERN (observer), EAPC, EBRD, ECE, ECO, ESCAP, EU
(applicant), FAO, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IEA,
IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat, Interpol,
IOC, IOM (observer), ISO, ITU, NATO, NEA, NSG, OAS (observer), OECD,
OIC, OPCW, OSCE, PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNIKOM,
UNMIBH, UNMIK, UNOMIG, UNRWA, UNTAET, UPU, WEU (associate), WFTU,
WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Baki ILKIN

chancery:  2525 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone:  [1] (202) 612-6700

FAX:  [1] (202) 612-6744

consulate(s) general:  Chicago, Houston, Los Angeles, and New York

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Robert PEARSON

embassy:  Ataturk Bulvarii 110, Ankara

mailing address:  PSC 93, Box 5000, APO AE 09823

telephone:  [90] (312) 468-6110

FAX:  [90] (312) 467-0019

consulate(s) general:  Istanbul (closed as of December 2000 for
security review)

consulate(s):  Adana (closed as of December 2000 for security review)

Flag description: red with a vertical white crescent (the closed
portion is toward the hoist side) and white five-pointed star
centered just outside the crescent opening



Turkey    Economy

Economy - overview: Turkey's dynamic economy is a complex mix of
modern industry and commerce along with traditional agriculture that
still accounts for nearly 40% of employment. It has a strong and
rapidly growing private sector, yet the state still plays a major
role in basic industry, banking, transport, and communication. The
most important industry - and largest exporter - is textiles and
clothing, which is almost entirely in private hands. In recent years
the economic situation has been marked by erratic economic growth
and serious imbalances. Real GNP growth has exceeded 6% in most
years, but this strong expansion was interrupted by sharp declines
in output in 1994 and 1999. Meanwhile the public sector fiscal
deficit has regularly exceeded 10% of GDP - due in large part to the
huge burden of interest payments, which now account for more than
40% of central government spending - while inflation has remained in
the high double digit range. Perhaps because of these problems,
foreign direct investment in Turkey remains low - less than $1
billion annually. Prospects for the future are improving, however,
because the ECEVIT government since June 1999 has been implementing
an IMF-backed reform program, including a tighter budget, social
security reform, banking reorganization, and accelerated
privatization. As a result, the fiscal situation is greatly improved
and inflation has dropped below 40% - the lowest rate since 1987.
The country experienced a financial crisis in late 2000, including
sharp drops in the stock market and foreign exchange reserves, but
is recovering rapidly, thanks to additional IMF support and the
government's commitment to a specific timetable of economic reforms.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $444 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 6% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $6,800 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  15%

industry:  29%

services:  56% (1999)

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:
2.3%

highest 10%:  32.3% (1994)

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 39% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 23 million (2000 est.)

note:  about 1.2 million Turks work abroad (1999)

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture 38%, services 38%, industry
24% (2000)

Unemployment rate: 5.6% (plus underemployment of 5.6%) (2000 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $54.5 billion

expenditures:  $75.2 billion, including capital expenditures of $3.3
billion (2000)

Industries: textiles, food processing, autos, mining (coal,
chromite, copper, boron), steel, petroleum, construction, lumber,
paper

Industrial production growth rate: 6.2% (2000 est.)

Electricity - production: 125.3 billion kWh (2000 est.)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  71%

hydro:  29%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (2000 est.)

Electricity - consumption: 119.5 billion kWh (2000 est.)

Electricity - exports: 350 million kWh (2000 est.)

Electricity - imports: 3.35 billion kWh (2000 est.)

Agriculture - products: tobacco, cotton, grain, olives, sugar beets,
pulse, citrus; livestock

Exports: $26.9 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Exports - commodities: apparel 25.6%, foodstuffs 15.4%, textiles
12.3%, metal manufactures 8.6%, transport equipment 8.1% (1998)

Exports - partners: Germany 18.7%, US 11.4%, UK 7.4%, Italy 6.3%,
France 6.0% (2000 est.)

Imports: $55.7 billion (c.i.f., 2000 est.)

Imports - commodities: machinery 28.3%, chemicals 15.2%,
semi-finished goods 14.5%, fuels 11%, transport equipment 9.5% (1999)

Imports - partners: Germany 13.1%, Italy 7.9%, US 7.2%, Russia 7.0%,
France 6.6%, UK 5.0% (2000 est.)

Debt - external: $109 billion (2000 est.)

Economic aid - recipient: ODA, $195 million (1993)

Currency: Turkish lira (TRL)

Currency code: TRL

Exchange rates: Turkish liras per US dollar - 677,621 (December
2000), 625,219 (2000), 418,783 (1999), 260,724 (1998), 151,865
(1997), 81,405 (1996)

Fiscal year: calendar year



Turkey    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 19.5 million (1999)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 12.1 million (1999)

Telephone system: general assessment:  undergoing rapid
modernization and expansion, especially cellular telephones

domestic:  additional digital exchanges are permitting a rapid
increase in subscribers; the construction of a network of
technologically advanced intercity trunk lines, using both
fiber-optic cable and digital microwave radio relay is facilitating
communication between urban centers; remote areas are reached by a
domestic satellite system; the number of subscribers to mobile
cellular telephone service is growing rapidly

international:  international service is provided by three submarine
fiber-optic cables in the Mediterranean and Black Seas, linking
Turkey with Italy, Greece, Israel, Bulgaria, Romania, and Russia, by
12 Intelsat earth stations, and by 328 mobile satellite terminals in
the Inmarsat and Eutelsat systems

Radio broadcast stations: AM 16, FM 72, shortwave 6 (1998)

Radios: 11.3 million (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 635 (plus 2,934 repeaters) (1995)

Televisions: 20.9 million (1997)

Internet country code: .tr

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 22 (2000)

Internet users: 2 million (2000)



Turkey    Transportation

Railways: total:  8,607 km

standard gauge:  8,607 km 1.435-m gauge (1,524 km electrified) (1999)

Highways: total:  382,059 km

paved:  106,976 km (including 1,726 km of expressways)

unpaved:  275,083 km (1999 est.)

Waterways: 1,200 km (approximately)

Pipelines: crude oil 1,738 km; petroleum products 2,321 km; natural
gas 708 km

Ports and harbors: Gemlik, Hopa, Iskenderun, Istanbul, Izmir,
Kocaeli (Izmit), Icel (Mersin), Samsun, Trabzon

Merchant marine: total:  548 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
5,617,302 GRT/9,088,451 DWT

ships by type:  bulk 140, cargo 242, chemical tanker 41, combination
bulk 5, combination ore/oil 6, container 21, liquefied gas 6,
passenger/cargo 1, petroleum tanker 43, refrigerated cargo 3, roll
on/roll off 25, short-sea passenger 10, specialized tanker 5 (2000
est.)

Airports: 121 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  86

over 3,047 m:  16

2,438 to 3,047 m:  29

1,524 to 2,437 m:  19

914 to 1,523 m:  16

under 914 m:  6 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  35

1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

914 to 1,523 m:  8

under 914 m:  26 (2000 est.)

Heliports: 2 (2000 est.)



Turkey    Military

Military branches: Land Force, Navy (includes Naval Air and Naval
Infantry), Air Force, Coast Guard, Gendarmerie

Military manpower - military age: 20 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  18,882,272 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
11,432,438 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  674,805
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $10.6 billion (FY99)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 5.6% (FY99)



Turkey    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: complex maritime, air, and territorial
disputes with Greece in Aegean Sea; Cyprus question with Greece;
dispute with downstream riparian states (Syria and Iraq) over water
development plans for the Tigris and Euphrates rivers; traditional
demands regarding former Armenian lands in Turkey have subsided

Illicit drugs: key transit route for Southwest Asian heroin to
Western Europe and - to a far lesser extent the US - via air, land,
and sea routes; major Turkish, Iranian, and other international
trafficking organizations operate out of Istanbul; laboratories to
convert imported morphine base into heroin are in remote regions of
Turkey as well as near Istanbul; government maintains strict
controls over areas of legal opium poppy cultivation and output of
poppy straw concentrate

======================================================================

@Turkmenistan




Turkmenistan    Introduction

Background: Annexed by Russia between 1865 and 1885, Turkmenistan
became a Soviet republic in 1925. It achieved its independence upon
the dissolution of the USSR in 1991. President NIYAZOV retains
absolute control over the country and opposition is not tolerated.
Extensive hydrocarbon/natural gas reserves could prove a boon to
this underdeveloped country if extraction and delivery projects can
be worked out.



Turkmenistan    Geography

Location: Central Asia, bordering the Caspian Sea, between Iran and
Kazakhstan

Geographic coordinates: 40 00 N, 60 00 E

Map references: Commonwealth of Independent States

Area: total:  488,100 sq km

land:  488,100 sq km

water:  0 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly larger than California

Land boundaries: total:  3,736 km

border countries:  Afghanistan 744 km, Iran 992 km, Kazakhstan 379
km, Uzbekistan 1,621 km

Coastline: 0 km; note - Turkmenistan borders the Caspian Sea (1,768
km)

Maritime claims: none (landlocked)

Climate: subtropical desert

Terrain: flat-to-rolling sandy desert with dunes rising to mountains
in the south; low mountains along border with Iran; borders Caspian
Sea in west

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Vpadina Akchanaya -81.00 m; note
- Sarygamysh Koli is a lake in northern Turkmenistan with a water
level that fluctuates above and below the elevation of Vpadina
Akchanaya (the lake has dropped as low as -110 m)

highest point:  Gora Ayribaba 3,139 m

Natural resources: petroleum, natural gas, coal, sulfur, salt

Land use: arable land:  3%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  63%

forests and woodland:  8%

other:  26% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 13,000 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: NA

Environment - current issues: contamination of soil and groundwater
with agricultural chemicals, pesticides; salination, water-logging
of soil due to poor irrigation methods; Caspian Sea pollution;
diversion of a large share of the flow of the Amu Darya into
irrigation contributes to that river's inability to replenish the
Aral Sea; desertification

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification,
Hazardous Wastes, Ozone Layer Protection

signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Geography - note: landlocked



Turkmenistan    People

Population: 4,603,244 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  37.88% (male 891,758; female 852,104)

15-64 years:  58.09% (male 1,313,303; female 1,360,690)

65 years and over:  4.03% (male 70,800; female 114,589) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 1.85% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 28.55 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 8.98 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: -1.04 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  0.97 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.62 male(s)/female

total population:  0.98 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 73.25 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  61 years

male:  57.43 years

female:  64.76 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 3.58 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 0.01% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: less than 100 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: less than 100 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Turkmen(s)

adjective:  Turkmen

Ethnic groups: Turkmen 77%, Uzbek 9.2%, Russian 6.7%, Kazakh 2%,
other 5.1% (1995)

Religions: Muslim 89%, Eastern Orthodox 9%, unknown 2%

Languages: Turkmen 72%, Russian 12%, Uzbek 9%, other 7%

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  98%

male:  99%

female:  97% (1989 est.)



Turkmenistan    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  none

conventional short form:  Turkmenistan

local long form:  none

local short form:  Turkmenistan

former:  Turkmen Soviet Socialist Republic

Government type: republic

Capital: Ashgabat

Administrative divisions: 5 welayatlar (singular - welayat): Ahal
Welayaty (Ashgabat), Balkan Welayaty (Nebitdag), Dashhowuz Welayaty
(formerly Tashauz), Lebap Welayaty (Charjew), Mary Welayaty

note:  administrative divisions have the same names as their
administrative centers (exceptions have the administrative center
name following in parentheses)

Independence: 27 October 1991 (from the Soviet Union)

National holiday: Independence Day, 27 October (1991)

Constitution: adopted 18 May 1992

Legal system: based on civil law system

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  President and Chairman of the
Cabinet of Ministers Saparmurat NIYAZOV (since 27 October 1990, when
the first direct presidential election occurred); note - the
president is both the chief of state and head of government

head of government:  President and Chairman of the Cabinet of
Ministers Saparmurat NIYAZOV (since 27 October 1990, when the first
direct presidential election occurred); note - the president is both
the chief of state and head of government

cabinet:  Council of Ministers appointed by the president

note:  NIYAZOV's term in office was extended indefinitely on 28
December 1999 by the Assembly (Majlis) during a session of the
People's Council (Halk Maslahaty)

elections:  president elected by popular vote for a five-year term;
election last held 21 June 1992 (next scheduled to be held NA); note
- President NIYAZOV was unanimously approved as president for life
by the Assembly on 28 December 1999); deputy chairmen of the cabinet
of ministers are appointed by the president

election results:  Saparmurat NIYAZOV elected president without
opposition; percent of vote - Saparmurat NIYAZOV 99.5%

Legislative branch: under the 1992 constitution, there are two
parliamentary bodies, a unicameral People's Council or Halk
Maslahaty (more than 100 seats, some of which are elected by popular
vote and some of which are appointed; meets infrequently) and a
unicameral Assembly or Majlis (50 seats; members are elected by
popular vote to serve five-year terms)

elections:  People's Council - NA; Assembly - last held 12 December
1999 (next to be held NA 2004)

election results:  Assembly - percent of vote by party - NA%; seats
by party - NA; note - all 50 elected officials preapproved by
President NIYAZOV; most are from the DPT

Judicial branch: Supreme Court (judges are appointed by the
president)

Political parties and leaders: Democratic Party of Turkmenistan or
DPT [Saparmurat NIYAZOV]

note:  formal opposition parties are outlawed; unofficial, small
opposition movements exist underground or in foreign countries

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: AsDB, CCC, CIS, EAPC,
EBRD, ECE, ECO, ESCAP, FAO, IBRD, ICAO, ICRM, IDB, IFC, IFRCS, ILO,
IMF, IMO, Intelsat (nonsignatory user), IOC, IOM (observer), ISO
(correspondent), ITU, NAM, OIC, OPCW, OSCE, PFP, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO,
UNIDO, UPU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO (observer)

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Mered ORAZOV

chancery:  2207 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone:  [1] (202) 588-1500

FAX:  [1] (202) 588-0697

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Steven R. MANN

embassy:  9 Pushkin Street, Ashgabat, Turkmenistan 774000

mailing address:  use embassy street address

telephone:  [9] (9312) 35-00-45

FAX:  [9] (9312) 51-13-05

Flag description: green field with a vertical red stripe near the
hoist side, containing five carpet guls (designs used in producing
rugs) stacked above two crossed olive branches similar to the olive
branches on the UN flag; a white crescent moon and five white stars
appear in the upper corner of the field just to the fly side of the
red stripe



Turkmenistan    Economy

Economy - overview: Turkmenistan is largely desert country with
intensive agriculture in irrigated oases and huge gas (fifth largest
reserves in the world) and oil resources. One-half of its irrigated
land is planted in cotton, making it the world's tenth largest
producer. Until the end of 1993, Turkmenistan had experienced less
economic disruption than other former Soviet states because its
economy received a boost from higher prices for oil and gas and a
sharp increase in hard currency earnings. In 1994, Russia's refusal
to export Turkmen gas to hard currency markets and mounting debts of
its major customers in the former USSR for gas deliveries
contributed to a sharp fall in industrial production and caused the
budget to shift from a surplus to a slight deficit. With an
authoritarian ex-communist regime in power and a tribally based
social structure, Turkmenistan has taken a cautious approach to
economic reform, hoping to use gas and cotton sales to sustain its
inefficient economy. Privatization goals remain limited. In
1998-2000, Turkmenistan suffered from the continued lack of adequate
export routes for natural gas and from obligations on extensive
short-term external debt. At the same time, however, total exports
rose sharply because of higher international oil and gas prices.
Prospects in the near future are discouraging because of widespread
internal poverty and the burden of foreign debt. IMF assistance
would seem to be necessary, yet the government is not as yet ready
to accept IMF requirements. Turkmenistan's 1999 deal to ship 20
billion cubic meters (bcm) of natural gas through Russia's Gazprom
pipeline helped alleviate the 2000 fiscal shortfall. Inadequate
fiscal restraint and the tenuous nature of Turkmenistan's 2001 gas
deals, combined with a lack of economic reform, will limit progress
in the near term.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $19.6 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 16% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $4,300 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  25%

industry:  43%

services:  32% (1999 est.)

Population below poverty line: 58% (1999 est.)

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:
2.6%

highest 10%:  31.7% (1998)

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 14% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 2.34 million (1996)

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture 44%, industry 19%, services
37% (1996)

Unemployment rate: NA%

Budget: revenues:  $588.6 million

expenditures:  $658.2 million, including capital expenditures of $NA
(1999 est.)

Industries: natural gas, oil, petroleum products, textiles, food
processing

Industrial production growth rate: 18% (2000 est.)

Electricity - production: 8.371 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  99.94%

hydro:  0.06%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 4.785 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 4.1 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 1.1 billion kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: cotton, grain; livestock

Exports: $2.4 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Exports - commodities: gas 33%, oil 30%, cotton fiber 18%, textiles
8% (1999)

Exports - partners: Ukraine, Iran, Turkey, Russia, Kazakhstan,
Tajikistan, Azerbaijan

Imports: $1.65 billion (c.i.f., 2000 est.)

Imports - commodities: machinery and equipment 60%, foodstuffs 15%
(1999)

Imports - partners: Ukraine, Turkey, Russia, Germany, US,
Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan

Debt - external: $2.5 billion (2000 est.)

Economic aid - recipient: $27.2 million (1995)

Currency: Turkmen manat (TMM)

Currency code: TMM

Exchange rates: Turkmen manats per US dollar - 5,200 (January 2001),
5,200 (January 2000), 5,350 (January 1999), 4,070 (January 1997),
2,400 (January 1996)

Fiscal year: calendar year



Turkmenistan    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 363,000 (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 4,300 (1998)

Telephone system: general assessment:  poorly developed

domestic:  NA

international:  linked by cable and microwave radio relay to other
CIS republics and to other countries by leased connections to the
Moscow international gateway switch; a new telephone link from
Ashgabat to Iran has been established; a new exchange in Ashgabat
switches international traffic through Turkey via Intelsat;
satellite earth stations - 1 Orbita and 1 Intelsat

Radio broadcast stations: AM 16, FM 8, shortwave 2 (1998)

Radios: 1.225 million (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 3 (much programming relayed from
Russia and Turkey) (1997)

Televisions: 820,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .tm

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): NA

Internet users: 2,000 (2000)



Turkmenistan    Transportation

Railways: total:  2,187 km

broad gauge:  2,187 km 1.520-m gauge (1996 est.)

Highways: total:  22,000 km

paved:  18,000 km (these roads are said to be hard-surfaced, and
include, in addition to conventionally paved roads, some that are
surfaced with gravel or other coarse aggregate, making them
trafficable in all weather)

unpaved:  4,000 km (these roads are made of unstabilized earth and
are difficult to negotiate in wet weather) (1996)

Waterways: the Amu Darya is an important inland waterway for
Turkmenistan

Pipelines: crude oil 250 km; natural gas 4,400 km

Ports and harbors: Turkmenbashi

Merchant marine: total:  1 ship (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 6,459
GRT/8,865 DWT

ships by type:  container 1 (2000 est.)

Airports: 76 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  13

2,438 to 3,047 m:  9

1,524 to 2,437 m:  4 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  63

2,438 to 3,047 m:  7

1,524 to 2,437 m:  5

914 to 1,523 m:  10

under 914 m:  41 (2000 est.)



Turkmenistan    Military

Military branches: Ministry of Defense (Army, Air and Air Defense,
Navy, Border Troops, and Internal Troops), National Guard

Military manpower - military age: 18 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  1,173,500 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
952,218 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  48,292
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $90 million (FY99)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 3.4% (FY99)



Turkmenistan    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: Caspian Sea boundaries are not yet
determined among Azerbaijan, Iran, Kazakhstan, Russia, and
Turkmenistan

Illicit drugs: limited illicit cultivator of opium poppy, mostly for
domestic consumption; limited government eradication program;
increasingly used as transshipment point for illicit drugs from
Southwest Asia to Russia and Western Europe; also a transshipment
point for acetic anhydride destined for Afghanistan

======================================================================

@Turks and Caicos Islands





Turks and Caicos Islands    Introduction

Background: The islands were part of the UK's Jamaican colony until
1962, when they assumed the status of a separate crown colony upon
Jamaica's independence. The governor of The Bahamas oversaw affairs
from 1965 to 1973. With Bahamian independence, the islands received
a separate governor in 1973. Although independence was agreed upon
for 1982, the policy was reversed and the islands are presently a
British overseas territory.



Turks and Caicos Islands    Geography

Location: Caribbean, two island groups in the North Atlantic Ocean,
southeast of The Bahamas

Geographic coordinates: 21 45 N, 71 35 W

Map references: Central America and the Caribbean

Area: total:  430 sq km

land:  430 sq km

water:  0 sq km

Area - comparative: 2.5 times the size of Washington, DC

Land boundaries: 0 km

Coastline: 389 km

Maritime claims: exclusive fishing zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: tropical; marine; moderated by trade winds; sunny and
relatively dry

Terrain: low, flat limestone; extensive marshes and mangrove swamps

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Caribbean Sea 0 m

highest point:  Blue Hills 49 m

Natural resources: spiny lobster, conch

Land use: arable land:  2%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  0%

forests and woodland:  0%

other:  98% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: NA sq km

Natural hazards: frequent hurricanes

Environment - current issues: limited natural fresh water resources,
private cisterns collect rainwater

Geography - note: 30 islands (eight inhabited)



Turks and Caicos Islands    People

Population: 18,122 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  32.58% (male 2,996; female 2,908)

15-64 years:  63.51% (male 6,050; female 5,459)

65 years and over:  3.91% (male 316; female 393) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 3.41% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 24.89 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 4.47 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 13.69 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.03 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1.11 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.8 male(s)/female

total population:  1.07 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 18.06 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  73.52 years

male:  71.37 years

female:  75.77 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 3.22 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: NA%

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: NA

HIV/AIDS - deaths: NA

Nationality: noun:  none

adjective:  none

Ethnic groups: black

Religions: Baptist 41.2%, Methodist 18.9%, Anglican 18.3%,
Seventh-Day Adventist 1.7%, other 19.9% (1980)

Languages: English (official)

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over has ever attended school

total population:  98%

male:  99%

female:  98% (1970 est.)



Turks and Caicos Islands    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  none

conventional short form:  Turks and Caicos Islands

Dependency status: overseas territory of the UK

Government type: NA

Capital: Cockburn Town (on Grand Turk)

Administrative divisions: none (overseas territory of the UK)

Independence: none (overseas territory of the UK)

National holiday: Constitution Day, 30 August (1976)

Constitution: introduced 30 August 1976; suspended in 1986; restored
and revised 5 March 1988

Legal system: based on laws of England and Wales, with a small
number adopted from Jamaica and The Bahamas

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6
February 1953), represented by Governor Mervyn JONES (since 27
January 2000)

head of government:  Chief Minister Derek H. TAYLOR (since 31
January 1995)

cabinet:  Executive Council consists of three ex officio members and
five appointed by the governor from among the members of the
Legislative Council

elections:  none; the monarch is hereditary; governor appointed by
the monarch; chief minister appointed by the governor

Legislative branch: unicameral Legislative Council (19 seats, of
which 13 are popularly elected; members serve four-year terms)

elections:  last held 4 March 1999 (next to be held by NA 2003)

election results:  percent of vote by party - PDM 52.2%, PNP 40.9%,
independent 6.9%; seats by party - PDM 9, PNP 4

Judicial branch: Supreme Court

Political parties and leaders: People's Democratic Movement or PDM
[Derek H. TAYLOR]; Progressive National Party or PNP [Washington
MISICK]; United Democratic Party or UDP [Wendal SWANN]

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: Caricom (associate), CDB,
Interpol (subbureau)

Diplomatic representation in the US: none (overseas territory of the
UK)

Diplomatic representation from the US: none (overseas territory of
the UK)

Flag description: blue, with the flag of the UK in the upper
hoist-side quadrant and the colonial shield centered on the outer
half of the flag; the shield is yellow and contains a conch shell,
lobster, and cactus



Turks and Caicos Islands    Economy

Economy - overview: The Turks and Caicos economy is based on
tourism, fishing, and offshore financial services. Most capital
goods and food for domestic consumption are imported. The US was the
leading source of tourists in 1996, accounting for more than half of
the 87,000 visitors; tourist arrivals had risen to 93,000 by 1998.
Major sources of government revenue include fees from offshore
financial activities and customs receipts.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $128 million (1999 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 8.7% (1999 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $7,300 (1999 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  NA%

industry:  NA%

services:  NA%

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 4% (1995)

Labor force: 4,848 (1990 est.)

Labor force - by occupation: about 33% in government and 20% in
agriculture and fishing; significant numbers in tourism, financial,
and other services (1997 est.)

Unemployment rate: 10% (1997 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $47 million

expenditures:  $33.6 million, including capital expenditures of $NA
(1997-1998 est.)

Industries: tourism, offshore financial services

Industrial production growth rate: NA%

Electricity - production: 5 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  100%

hydro:  0%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 4.6 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: corn, beans, cassava (tapioca), citrus
fruits; fish

Exports: $4.7 million (1993)

Exports - commodities: lobster, dried and fresh conch, conch shells

Exports - partners: US, UK

Imports: $46.6 million (1993)

Imports - commodities: food and beverages, tobacco, clothing,
manufactures, construction materials

Imports - partners: US, UK

Debt - external: $NA

Economic aid - recipient: $4.1 million (1997)

Currency: US dollar (USD)

Currency code: USD

Exchange rates: the US dollar is used

Fiscal year: calendar year



Turks and Caicos Islands    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 3,000 (1994)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 0 (1994)

Telephone system: general assessment:  fair cable and radiotelephone
services

domestic:  NA

international:  2 submarine cables; satellite earth station - 1
Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 3 (one inactive), FM 6, shortwave 0
(1998)

Radios: 8,000 (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 0 (broadcasts from The Bahamas are
received; cable television is established) (1997)

Televisions: NA

Internet country code: .tc

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 14 (2000)

Internet users: NA



Turks and Caicos Islands    Transportation

Railways: 0 km

Highways: total:  121 km

paved:  24 km

unpaved:  97 km (2000)

Waterways: none

Ports and harbors: Grand Turk, Providenciales

Merchant marine: none (2000 est.)

Airports: 8 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  4

1,524 to 2,437 m:  3

914 to 1,523 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  4

914 to 1,523 m:  2

under 914 m:  2 (2000 est.)



Turks and Caicos Islands    Military

Military - note: defense is the responsibility of the UK



Turks and Caicos Islands    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

Illicit drugs: transshipment point for South American narcotics
destined for the US and Europe

======================================================================

@Tuvalu




Tuvalu    Introduction

Background: In 1974, ethnic differences within the British colony of
the Gilbert and Ellice Islands caused the Polynesians of the Ellice
Islands to vote for separation from the Micronesians of the Gilbert
Islands. The following year, the Ellice Islands became the separate
British colony of Tuvalu. Independence was granted in 1978. In 2000,
Tuvalu negotiated a contract leasing its Internet domain name ".tv"
for $50 million in royalties over the next dozen years.



Tuvalu    Geography

Location: Oceania, island group consisting of nine coral atolls in
the South Pacific Ocean, about one-half of the way from Hawaii to
Australia

Geographic coordinates: 8 00 S, 178 00 E

Map references: Oceania

Area: total:  26 sq km

land:  26 sq km

water:  0 sq km

Area - comparative: 0.1 times the size of Washington, DC

Land boundaries: 0 km

Coastline: 24 km

Maritime claims: contiguous zone:  24 NM

exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: tropical; moderated by easterly trade winds (March to
November); westerly gales and heavy rain (November to March)

Terrain: very low-lying and narrow coral atolls

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Pacific Ocean 0 m

highest point:  unnamed location 5 m

Natural resources: fish

Land use: arable land:  0%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  0%

forests and woodland:  0%

other:  100% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: NA sq km

Natural hazards: severe tropical storms are usually rare, but, in
1997, there were three cyclones; low level of islands make them very
sensitive to changes in sea level

Environment - current issues: since there are no streams or rivers
and groundwater is not potable, most water needs must be met by
catchment systems with storage facilities (the Japanese Government
has built one desalination plant and plans to build one other);
beachhead erosion because of the use of sand for building materials;
excessive clearance of forest undergrowth for use as fuel; damage to
coral reefs from the spread of the Crown of Thorns starfish; Tuvalu
is very concerned about global increases in greenhouse gas emissions
and their effect on rising sea levels, which threaten the country's
underground water table

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Climate Change,
Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Ozone Layer
Protection, Ship Pollution

signed, but not ratified:  Biodiversity, Law of the Sea



Tuvalu    People

Population: 10,991 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  33.28% (male 1,862; female 1,796)

15-64 years:  61.6% (male 3,241; female 3,529)

65 years and over:  5.12% (male 236; female 327) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 1.4% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 21.56 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 7.55 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.04 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  0.92 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.72 male(s)/female

total population:  0.94 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 22.65 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  66.65 years

male:  64.52 years

female:  68.88 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 3.09 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: NA%

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: NA

HIV/AIDS - deaths: NA

Nationality: noun:  Tuvaluan(s)

adjective:  Tuvaluan

Ethnic groups: Polynesian 96%

Religions: Church of Tuvalu (Congregationalist) 97%, Seventh-Day
Adventist 1.4%, Baha'i 1%, other 0.6%

Languages: Tuvaluan, English

Literacy: definition:  NA

total population:  NA%

male:  NA%

female:  NA%



Tuvalu    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  none

conventional short form:  Tuvalu

former:  Ellice Islands

Government type: constitutional monarchy with a parliamentary
democracy; began debating republic status in 1992

Capital: Funafuti

Administrative divisions: none

Independence: 1 October 1978 (from UK)

National holiday: Independence Day, 1 October (1978)

Constitution: 1 October 1978

Legal system: NA

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6
February 1952), represented by Governor General Sir Tomasi PUAPUA
(since 26 June 1998)

head of government:  Acting Prime Minister Lagitupu (of Nanumea)
TUILIMU (since 8 December 2000); note - TUILIMU took over after
Prime Minister Ionatana IONATANA died suddenly of a heart attack on
8 December 2000

cabinet:  Cabinet appointed by the governor general on the
recommendation of the prime minister

elections:  the monarch is hereditary; governor general appointed by
the monarch on the recommendation of the prime minister; prime
minister and deputy prime minister elected by and from the members
of Parliament; election last held 27 April 1999 (next to be held NA
2002)

election results:  results of the last election for prime minister -
Ionatana IONATANA elected prime minister; percent of Parliament vote
- NA%; Lagitupu (of Nanumea) TUILIMU elected deputy prime minister;
percent of Parliament vote - NA%; note - Deputy Prime Minister
Lagitupu (of Nanumea) TUILIMU became acting prime minister following
the death of Prime Minister Ionatana IONATANA on 8 December 2000

Legislative branch: unicameral Parliament or Fale I Fono, also
called House of Assembly (12 seats; members elected by popular vote
to serve four-year terms)

elections:  last held 26-27 March 1998 (next to be held by NA 2002)

election results:  percent of vote - NA%; seats - independents 12

Judicial branch: High Court (a chief justice visits twice a year to
preside over its sessions; its rulings can be appealed to the Court
of Appeal in Fiji); eight Island Courts (with limited jurisdiction)

Political parties and leaders: there are no political parties but
members of Parliament usually align themselves in informal groupings

Political pressure groups and leaders: none

International organization participation: ACP, AsDB, C, ESCAP, IFRCS
(associate), Intelsat (nonsignatory user), ITU, Sparteca, SPC, SPF,
UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UPU, WHO, WTrO (applicant)

Diplomatic representation in the US: Tuvalu does not have an embassy
in the US

Diplomatic representation from the US: the US does not have an
embassy in Tuvalu; the US ambassador to Fiji is accredited to Tuvalu

Flag description: light blue with the flag of the UK in the upper
hoist-side quadrant; the outer half of the flag represents a map of
the country with nine yellow five-pointed stars symbolizing the nine
islands



Tuvalu    Economy

Economy - overview: Tuvalu consists of a densely populated,
scattered group of nine coral atolls with poor soil. The country has
no known mineral resources and few exports. Subsistence farming and
fishing are the primary economic activities. Government revenues
largely come from the sale of stamps and coins and worker
remittances. About 1,000 Tuvaluans work in Nauru in the phosphate
mining industry. Nauru has begun repatriating Tuvaluans, however, as
phosphate resources decline. Substantial income is received annually
from an international trust fund established in 1987 by Australia,
NZ, and the UK and supported also by Japan and South Korea. Thanks
to wise investments and conservative withdrawals, this Fund has
grown from an initial $17 million to over $35 million in 1999. The
US government is also a major revenue source for Tuvalu, with 1999
payments from a 1988 treaty on fisheries at about $9 million, a
total which is expected to rise annually. In an effort to reduce its
dependence on foreign aid, the government is pursuing public sector
reforms, including privatization of some government functions and
personnel cuts of up to 7%. In 1998, Tuvalu began deriving revenue
from use of its area code for "900" lines and in 2000, from the sale
of its ".tv" Internet domain name. Royalties from these new
technology sources could raise GDP three or more times over the next
decade. In 1999, with merchandise exports falling and financing
reaching less than 5% of imports, continued reliance was placed on
fishing and telecommunications license fees, remittances from
overseas workers, official transfers, and investment income from
overseas assets to cover the trade deficit.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $11.6 million (1999 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 3% (1999 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $1,100 (1999 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  NA%

industry:  NA%

services:  NA%

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 7% (1999 est.)

Labor force: NA

Labor force - by occupation: people make a living mainly through
exploitation of the sea, reefs, and atolls and from wages sent home
by those working abroad (mostly workers in the phosphate industry
and sailors)

Unemployment rate: NA%

Budget: revenues:  $6.2 million

expenditures:  $6.1 million, including capital expenditures of $NA
(1998 est.)

Industries: fishing, tourism, copra

Industrial production growth rate: NA%

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  NA%

hydro:  NA%

nuclear:  NA%

other:  NA%

Agriculture - products: coconuts; fish

Exports: $165,000 (f.o.b., 1989)

Exports - commodities: copra

Exports - partners: Fiji, Australia, NZ

Imports: $4.4 million (c.i.f., 1989)

Imports - commodities: food, animals, mineral fuels, machinery,
manufactured goods

Imports - partners: Fiji, Australia, NZ

Debt - external: $NA

Economic aid - recipient: $13 million (1999 est.); note - major
donors are Japan and Australia

Currency: Australian dollar (AUD); note - there is also a Tuvaluan
dollar

Currency code: AUD

Exchange rates: Tuvaluan dollars or Australian dollars per US dollar
- 1.7995 (January 2001), 1.7173 (2000), 1.5497 (1999), 1.5888
(1998), 1.3439 (1997), 1.2773 (1996)

Fiscal year: calendar year



Tuvalu    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 1,000 (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 0 (1994)

Telephone system: general assessment:  serves particular needs for
internal communications

domestic:  radiotelephone communications between islands

international:  NA

Radio broadcast stations: AM 1, FM 0, shortwave 0 (1998)

Radios: 4,000 (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 0 (1997)

Televisions: 800

Internet country code: .tv

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 1 (2000)

Internet users: NA



Tuvalu    Transportation

Railways: 0 km

Highways: total:  8 km

paved:  0 km

unpaved:  8 km (1996)

Waterways: none

Ports and harbors: Funafuti, Nukufetau

Merchant marine: total:  9 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 52,135
GRT/68,300 DWT

ships by type:  cargo 5, passenger/cargo 1, petroleum tanker 1, roll
on/roll off 2 (2000 est.)

Airports: 1 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  1

1,524 to 2,437 m:  1 (2000 est.)



Tuvalu    Military

Military branches: no regular military forces; Police Force includes
Maritime Surveillance Unit for search and rescue missions and
surveillance operations

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $NA

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: NA%



Tuvalu    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

======================================================================

@Uganda




Uganda    Introduction

Background: Uganda achieved independence from the UK in 1962. The
dictatorial regime of Idi AMIN (1971-79) was responsible for the
deaths of some 300,000 opponents; guerrilla war and human rights
abuses under Milton OBOTE (1980-85) claimed another 100,000 lives.
During the 1990s the government promulgated non-party presidential
and legislative elections.



Uganda    Geography

Location: Eastern Africa, west of Kenya

Geographic coordinates: 1 00 N, 32 00 E

Map references: Africa

Area: total:  236,040 sq km

land:  199,710 sq km

water:  36,330 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly smaller than Oregon

Land boundaries: total:  2,698 km

border countries:  Democratic Republic of the Congo 765 km, Kenya
933 km, Rwanda 169 km, Sudan 435 km, Tanzania 396 km

Coastline: 0 km (landlocked)

Maritime claims: none (landlocked)

Climate: tropical; generally rainy with two dry seasons (December to
February, June to August); semiarid in northeast

Terrain: mostly plateau with rim of mountains

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Lake Albert 621 m

highest point:  Margherita Peak on Mount Stanley 5,110 m

Natural resources: copper, cobalt, hydropower, limestone, salt,
arable land

Land use: arable land:  25%

permanent crops:  9%

permanent pastures:  9%

forests and woodland:  28%

other:  29% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 90 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: NA

Environment - current issues: draining of wetlands for agricultural
use; deforestation; overgrazing; soil erosion; water hyacinth
infestation in Lake Victoria; poaching is widespread

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous
Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Life Conservation, Nuclear Test Ban,
Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands

signed, but not ratified:  Environmental Modification

Geography - note: landlocked



Uganda    People

Population: 23,985,712

note:  estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
life expectancy, higher infant mortality and death rates, lower
population and growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  51.08% (male 6,150,038; female 6,100,880)

15-64 years:  46.78% (male 5,613,499; female 5,607,526)

65 years and over:  2.14% (male 244,216; female 269,553) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 2.93% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 47.52 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 17.97 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: -0.29 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

note:  according to the UNHCR, by the end of 1999, Uganda was host
to 218,000 refugees from a number of neighboring countries,
including: Sudan 200,600, Rwanda 8,000, and Democratic Republic of
the Congo 8,000

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.03 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.01 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.91 male(s)/female

total population:  1 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 91.3 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  43.37 years

male:  42.59 years

female:  44.17 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 6.88 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 8.3% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 820,000 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: 110,000 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Ugandan(s)

adjective:  Ugandan

Ethnic groups: Baganda 17%, Karamojong 12%, Basogo 8%, Iteso 8%,
Langi 6%, Rwanda 6%, Bagisu 5%, Acholi 4%, Lugbara 4%, Bunyoro 3%,
Batoro 3%, non-African (European, Asian, Arab) 1%, other 23%

Religions: Roman Catholic 33%, Protestant 33%, Muslim 16%,
indigenous beliefs 18%

Languages: English (official national language, taught in grade
schools, used in courts of law and by most newspapers and some radio
broadcasts), Ganda or Luganda (most widely used of the Niger-Congo
languages, preferred for native language publications in the capital
and may be taught in school), other Niger-Congo languages,
Nilo-Saharan languages, Swahili, Arabic

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  61.8%

male:  73.7%

female:  50.2% (1995 est.)



Uganda    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Republic of Uganda

conventional short form:  Uganda

Government type: republic

Capital: Kampala

Administrative divisions: 45 districts; Adjumani, Apac, Arua,
Bugiri, Bundibugyo, Bushenyi, Busia, Gulu, Hoima, Iganga, Jinja,
Kabale, Kabarole, Kalangala, Kampala, Kamuli, Kapchorwa, Kasese,
Katakwi, Kibale, Kiboga, Kisoro, Kitgum, Kotido, Kumi, Lira, Luwero,
Masaka, Masindi, Mbale, Mbarara, Moroto, Moyo, Mpigi, Mubende,
Mukono, Nakasongola, Nebbi, Ntungamo, Pallisa, Rakai, Rukungiri,
Sembabule, Soroti, Tororo

Independence: 9 October 1962 (from UK)

National holiday: Independence Day, 9 October (1962)

Constitution: 8 October 1995; adopted by the interim, 284-member
Constituent Assembly, charged with debating the draft constitution
that had been proposed in May 1993; the Constituent Assembly was
dissolved upon the promulgation of the constitution in October 1995

Legal system: in 1995, the government restored the legal system to
one based on English common law and customary law; accepts
compulsory ICJ jurisdiction, with reservations

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Lt. Gen. Yoweri Kaguta
MUSEVENI (since seizing power 29 January 1986); note - the president
is both chief of state and head of government

head of government:  President Lt. Gen. Yoweri Kaguta MUSEVENI
(since seizing power 29 January 1986); Prime Minister Apollo
NSIBAMBI (since 5 April 1999); note - the president is both chief of
state and head of government; the prime minister assists the
president in the supervision of the cabinet

cabinet:  Cabinet appointed by the president from among elected
legislators

elections:  president reelected by popular vote for a five-year
term; election last held 12 March 2001 (next to be held NA 2006);
note - first popular election for president since independence in
1962 was held in 1996; prime minister appointed by the president

election results:  Lt. Gen. Yoweri Kaguta MUSEVENI elected
president; percent of vote - Lt. Gen. Yoweri Kaguta MUSEVENI 69.3%,
Kizza BESIGYE 27.8%

Legislative branch: unicameral National Assembly (276 members - 214
directly elected by popular vote, 62 nominated by legally
established special interest groups and approved by the president -
women 39, army 10, disabled 5, youth 5, labor 3; members serve
five-year terms)

elections:  last held 27 June 1996 (next to be held May or June
2001);

election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
NA; note - election campaigning by party was not permitted

Judicial branch: Court of Appeal (judges are appointed by the
president and approved by the legislature); High Court (judges are
appointed by the president)

Political parties and leaders: only one political organization, the
National Resistance Movement or NRM [President MUSEVENI, chairman]
is allowed to operate unfettered; note - the president maintains
that the NRM is not a political party, but a movement which claims
the loyalty of all Ugandans

note:  the new constitution requires the suspension of political
parties while the Movement system is in governanace; of the
political parties that exist but are prohibited from sponsoring
candidates, the most important are the Ugandan People's Congress or
UPC [Milton OBOTE]; Democratic Party or DP [Paul SSEMOGERERE];
Conservative Party or CP [Joshua S. MAYANJA-NKANGI]; Justice Forum
[Muhammad Kibirige MAYANJA]; and National Democrats Forum [Chapaa
KARUHANGA]

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: ACP, AfDB, C, CCC, EADB,
ECA, FAO, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC,
IFRCS, IGAD, ILO, IMF, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO
(correspondent), ITU, NAM, OAU, OIC, OPCW, PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO,
UNHCR, UNIDO, UPU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Edith Grace SSEMPALA

chancery:  5911 16th Street NW, Washington, DC 20011

telephone:  [1] (202) 726-7100 through 7102, 0416

FAX:  [1] (202) 726-1727

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Martin G. BRENNAN

embassy:  Parliament Avenue, Kampala

mailing address:  P. O. Box 7007, Kampala

telephone:  [256] (41) 259792, 259793, 259795

FAX:  [256] (41) 259794

Flag description: six equal horizontal bands of black (top), yellow,
red, black, yellow, and red; a white disk is superimposed at the
center and depicts a red-crested crane (the national symbol) facing
the hoist side



Uganda    Economy

Economy - overview: Uganda has substantial natural resources,
including fertile soils, regular rainfall, and sizable mineral
deposits of copper and cobalt. Agriculture is the most important
sector of the economy, employing over 80% of the work force. Coffee
is the major export crop and accounts for the bulk of export
revenues. Since 1986, the government - with the support of foreign
countries and international agencies - has acted to rehabilitate and
stabilize the economy by undertaking currency reform, raising
producer prices on export crops, increasing prices of petroleum
products, and improving civil service wages. The policy changes are
especially aimed at dampening inflation and boosting production and
export earnings. In 1990-2000, the economy turned in a solid
performance based on continued investment in the rehabilitation of
infrastructure, improved incentives for production and exports,
reduced inflation, gradually improved domestic security, and the
return of exiled Indian-Ugandan entrepreneurs. Ongoing Ugandan
involvement in the war in the Democratic Republic of the Congo,
corruption within the government, and slippage in the government's
determination to press reforms raise doubts about the continuation
of strong growth. In 2000, Uganda qualified for enhanced HIPC debt
relief worth $1.3 billion and Paris Club debt relief worth $145
million. These amounts combined with the original Highly Indebted
Poor Countries HIPC debt relief add up to about $2 billion. Growth
for 2001 should be somewhat lower than in 2000, because of a decline
in the price of coffee, Uganda's principal export.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $26.2 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 6% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $1,100 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  43%

industry:  17%

services:  40% (1998 est.)

Population below poverty line: 55% (1993 est.)

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  3%

highest 10%:  33.4% (1992)

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 6.5% (2000)

Labor force: 8.361 million (1993 est.)

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture 82%, industry 5%, services
13% (1999 est.)

Unemployment rate: NA%

Budget: revenues:  $959 million

expenditures:  $1.04 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
(FY98/99 est.)

Industries: sugar, brewing, tobacco, cotton textiles, cement

Industrial production growth rate: 7% (1999)

Electricity - production: 1.326 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  0.98%

hydro:  99.02%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 1.06 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 174 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 1 million kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: coffee, tea, cotton, tobacco, cassava
(tapioca), potatoes, corn, millet, pulses; beef, goat meat, milk,
poultry

Exports: $500.1 million (f.o.b., 1999)

Exports - commodities: coffee, fish and fish products, tea;
electrical products, iron and steel

Exports - partners: Spain, Germany, Belgium, Netherlands, Hungary,
Kenya (1999)

Imports: $1.1 billion (f.o.b., 1999)

Imports - commodities: vehicles, petroleum, medical supplies; cereals

Imports - partners: Kenya 27.5%, US 21.2%, France 19.3, UK 5%, India
4% (1999)

Debt - external: $3.6 billion (2000 est.)

Economic aid - recipient: $1.4 billion (2000)

Currency: Ugandan shilling (UGX)

Currency code: UGX

Exchange rates: Ugandan shillings per US dollar - 1,700 (February
2001), 1,830.4 (January 2001), 1,644.5 (2000), 1,454.8 (1999),
1,240.2 (1998), 1,083.0 (1997), 1,046.1 (1996)

Fiscal year: 1 July - 30 June



Uganda    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 50,074; however, 80,868 main lines
were installed (1998)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 9,000 (1998)

Telephone system: general assessment:  seriously inadequate; two
cellular systems have been introduced, but a sharp increase in the
number of main lines is essential; e-mail and Internet services are
available

domestic:  intercity traffic by wire, microwave radio relay, and
radiotelephone communication stations, fixed and mobile cellular
systems for short range traffic

international:  satellite earth stations - 1 Intelsat (Atlantic
Ocean) and 1 Inmarsat; analog links to Kenya and Tanzania

Radio broadcast stations: AM 19, FM 4, shortwave 5 (1998)

Radios: 2.6 million (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 8 (plus one low-power repeater) (1999)

Televisions: 315,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .ug

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 2 (2000)

Internet users: 25,000 (2000)



Uganda    Transportation

Railways: total:  1,241 km

narrow gauge:  1,241 km 1.000-m gauge

note:  a program to rehabilitate the railroad is underway (1995)

Highways: total:  27,000 km

paved:  1,800 km

unpaved:  25,200 km (of which about 4200 km are all-weather roads)
(1990)

Waterways: Lake Victoria, Lake Albert, Lake Kyoga, Lake George, Lake
Edward, Victoria Nile, Albert Nile

Ports and harbors: Entebbe, Jinja, Port Bell

Merchant marine: total:  3 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 5,091
GRT/8,229 DWT

ships by type:  roll on/roll off

note:  these ships are in cargo and passenger service on Uganda's
inland waterways (2000 est.)

Airports: 28 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  4

over 3,047 m:  3

1,524 to 2,437 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  24

2,438 to 3,047 m:  1

1,524 to 2,437 m:  6

914 to 1,523 m:  9

under 914 m:  8 (2000 est.)

Heliports: 1 (2000 est.)



Uganda    Military

Military branches: Army, Air Wing, Marine Unit

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  5,118,755 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
2,778,457 (2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $95 million (FY98/99)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 1.9% (FY98/99)



Uganda    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: the Ugandan military is deployed to the
Democratic Republic of Congo in support of rebel forces in that
country's civil war; a resurvey of the latitudinal boundary with
Tanzania in 2000 revealed a 300-meter discrepancy that both sides
are currently adjudicating

======================================================================

@Ukraine




Ukraine    Introduction

Background: Richly endowed in natural resources, Ukraine has been
fought over and subjugated for centuries; its 20th-century struggle
for liberty is not yet complete. A short-lived independence from
Russia (1917-1920) was followed by brutal Soviet rule that
engineered two artificial famines (1921-22 and 1932-33) in which
over 8 million died, and World War II, in which German and Soviet
armies were responsible for some 7 million more deaths. Although
independence was attained in 1991 with the dissolution of the USSR,
true freedom remains elusive as many of the former Soviet elite
remain entrenched, stalling efforts at economic reform,
privatization, and civic liberties.



Ukraine    Geography

Location: Eastern Europe, bordering the Black Sea, between Poland
and Russia

Geographic coordinates: 49 00 N, 32 00 E

Map references: Commonwealth of Independent States

Area: total:  603,700 sq km

land:  603,700 sq km

water:  0 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly smaller than Texas

Land boundaries: total:  4,558 km

border countries:  Belarus 891 km, Hungary 103 km, Moldova 939 km,
Poland 428 km, Romania (south) 169 km, Romania (west) 362 km, Russia
1,576 km, Slovakia 90 km

Coastline: 2,782 km

Maritime claims: continental shelf:  200-m or to the depth of
exploitation

exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: temperate continental; Mediterranean only on the southern
Crimean coast; precipitation disproportionately distributed, highest
in west and north, lesser in east and southeast; winters vary from
cool along the Black Sea to cold farther inland; summers are warm
across the greater part of the country, hot in the south

Terrain: most of Ukraine consists of fertile plains (steppes) and
plateaus, mountains being found only in the west (the Carpathians),
and in the Crimean Peninsula in the extreme south

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Black Sea 0 m

highest point:  Hora Hoverla 2,061 m

Natural resources: iron ore, coal, manganese, natural gas, oil,
salt, sulfur, graphite, titanium, magnesium, kaolin, nickel,
mercury, timber, arable land

Land use: arable land:  58%

permanent crops:  2%

permanent pastures:  13%

forests and woodland:  18%

other:  9% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 26,050 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: NA

Environment - current issues: inadequate supplies of potable water;
air and water pollution; deforestation; radiation contamination in
the northeast from 1986 accident at Chornobyl' Nuclear Power Plant

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Air Pollution,
Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air Pollution-Sulphur 85,
Antarctic-Marine Living Resources, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification,
Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer
Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands

signed, but not ratified:  Air Pollution-Persistent Organic
Pollutants, Air Pollution-Sulphur 94, Air Pollution-Volatile Organic
Compounds, Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol

Geography - note: strategic position at the crossroads between
Europe and Asia; second-largest country in Europe



Ukraine    People

Population: 48,760,474 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  17.3% (male 4,310,158; female 4,127,677)

15-64 years:  68.57% (male 15,965,079; female 17,468,035)

65 years and over:  14.13% (male 2,275,004; female 4,614,521) (2001
est.)

Population growth rate: -0.78% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 9.31 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 16.43 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: -0.63 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  0.91 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.49 male(s)/female

total population:  0.86 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 21.4 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  66.15 years

male:  60.62 years

female:  71.96 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 1.29 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 0.96% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 240,000 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: 4,000 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Ukrainian(s)

adjective:  Ukrainian

Ethnic groups: Ukrainian 73%, Russian 22%, Jewish 1%, other 4%

Religions: Ukrainian Orthodox - Moscow Patriarchate, Ukrainian
Orthodox - Kiev Patriarchate, Ukrainian Autocephalous Orthodox,
Ukrainian Catholic (Uniate), Protestant, Jewish

Languages: Ukrainian, Russian, Romanian, Polish, Hungarian

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  98%

male:  100%

female:  97% (1989 est.)



Ukraine    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  none

conventional short form:  Ukraine

local long form:  none

local short form:  Ukrayina

former:  Ukrainian National Republic, Ukrainian State, Ukrainian
Soviet Socialist Republic

Government type: republic

Capital: Kiev (Kyyiv)

Administrative divisions: 24 oblasti (singular - oblast'), 1
autonomous republic* (avtomnaya respublika), and 2 municipalities
(mista, singular - misto) with oblast status**; Cherkas'ka
(Cherkasy), Chernihivs'ka (Chernihiv), Chernivets'ka (Chernivtsi),
Dnipropetrovs'ka (Dnipropetrovs'k), Donets'ka (Donets'k),
Ivano-Frankivs'ka (Ivano-Frankivs'k), Kharkivs'ka (Kharkiv),
Khersons'ka (Kherson), Khmel'nyts'ka (Khmel'nyts'kyy),
Kirovohrads'ka (Kirovohrad), Kyyiv**, Kyyivs'ka (Kiev), Luhans'ka
(Luhans'k), L'vivs'ka (L'viv), Mykolayivs'ka (Mykolayiv), Odes'ka
(Odesa), Poltavs'ka (Poltava), Avtonomna Respublika Krym*
(Simferopol'), Rivnens'ka (Rivne), Sevastopol'**, Sums'ka (Sumy),
Ternopil's'ka (Ternopil'), Vinnyts'ka (Vinnytsya), Volyns'ka
(Luts'k), Zakarpats'ka (Uzhhorod), Zaporiz'ka (Zaporizhzhya),
Zhytomyrs'ka (Zhytomyr); note - when using a place name with an
adjectival ending 's'ka' or 'z'ka,' the word Oblast' should be added
to the place name

note:  oblasts have the administrative center name following in
parentheses

Independence: 24 August 1991 (from Soviet Union)

National holiday: Independence Day, 24 August (1991)

Constitution: adopted 28 June 1996

Legal system: based on civil law system; judicial review of
legislative acts

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Leonid D. KUCHMA (since
19 July 1994)

head of government:  Prime Minister Anatoliy KINAKH (since 29 May
2001), First Deputy Prime Minister Oleh DUBYNA (since 29 May 2001)

cabinet:  Cabinet of Ministers appointed by the president and
approved by the Supreme Council

note:  there is also a National Security and Defense Council or NSDC
originally created in 1992 as the National Security Council, but
significantly revamped and strengthened under President KUCHMA; the
NSDC staff is tasked with developing national security policy on
domestic and international matters and advising the president; a
Presidential Administration that helps draft presidential edicts and
provides policy support to the president; and a Council of Regions
that serves as an advisory body created by President KUCHMA in
September 1994 that includes chairmen of the Kyyiv (Kiev) and
Sevastopol' municipalities and chairmen of the oblasti

elections:  president elected by popular vote for a five-year term;
election last held 31 October and 14 November 1999 (next to be held
NA 2004); prime minister and deputy prime ministers appointed by the
president and approved by the Supreme Council

election results:  Leonid D. KUCHMA elected president; percent of
vote - Leonid KUCHMA 57.7%, Petro SYMONENKO 38.8%

Legislative branch: unicameral Supreme Council or Verkhovna Rada
(450 seats; under Ukraine's new election law, half of the Supreme
Council's seats are allocated on a proportional basis to those
parties that gain 4% or more of the national electoral vote; the
other 225 members are elected by popular vote in single-mandate
constituencies; all serve four-year terms)

elections:  last held 29 March 1998 (next to be held NA 2002)

election results:  percent of vote by party (for parties clearing 4%
hurdle on 29 March 1998) - Communist Party 24.7%, Rukh (combined)
9.4%, SPU/SelPU 8.6%, PZU 5.3%, People's Democratic Party 5.0%,
Hromada Party 4.7%, Progressive Socialist Party 4.0%, United Social
Democratic Party 4.0%; seats by party (as of 25 February 2000) -
Communist Party 115, PRVU 36, Fatherland Party 35, United Social
Democratic Party 34, People's Democratic Party 27, Trudova Ukrayina
Party 27, Rukh K 27, left-center 23, PZU 18, Rukh U 17, SelPU 15,
Hromada Party 14, Reforms-Congress 12, independents 14, unaffiliated
31, vacant 5

Judicial branch: Supreme Court; Constitutional Court

Political parties and leaders: Communist Party of Ukraine [Petro
SYMONENKO]; Fatherland (Motherland) All Ukrainian Party [Yuliya
TYMOSHENKO, chairperson]; Green Party of Ukraine or PZU [Vitaliy
KONONOV, chairman]; Hromada [Pavlo LAZARENKO]; Party of Regional
Revival of Ukraine or PRVU [Volodymyr RYBAK]; Peasant Party of
Ukraine or SelPU [Serhiy DOVHAN]; People's Democratic Party [Valeriy
PUSTOVOYTENKO, chairman]; People's Movement of Ukraine or Rukh U
[Hennadiy UDOVENKO, chairman]; Progressive Socialist Party [Nataliya
VITRENKO]; Reforms and Order Party/Reforms-Congress [Viktor
PYNZENYK]; Socialist Party of Ukraine or SPU [Oleksandr MOROZ,
chairman]; Solidarity [leader NA]; Trudova Ukrayina/Working Ukraine
[Igor SHAROV, chairman]; Ukrainian Popular Movement or Rukh K [Yuriy
KOSTENKO, chairman]; United Social Democratic Party of Ukraine
[Viktor MEDVEDCHUK]

note:  and numerous smaller parties

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: BSEC, CCC, CE, CEI, CIS,
EAPC, EBRD, ECE, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICRM, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF,
IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat (nonsignatory user), Interpol, IOC, IOM
(observer), ISO, ITU, MONUC, NAM (observer), NSG, OAS (observer),
OPCW, OSCE, PCA, PFP, UN, UN Security Council (temporary), UNAMSIL,
UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNIFIL, UNMEE, UNMIBH, UNMIK, UNMOP, UNMOT,
UNTAET, UPU, WCL, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO (observer), ZC

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Konstantin Ivanovych HRYSHCHENKO

chancery:  3350 M Street NW, Washington, DC 20007

telephone:  [1] (202) 333-0606

FAX:  [1] (202) 333-0817

consulate(s) general:  Chicago and New York

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Carlos PASCUAL

embassy:  10 Yuria Kotsubynskoho, 254053 Kiev 53

mailing address:  use embassy street address

telephone:  [380] (44) 490-4000

FAX:  [380] (44) 244-7350

Flag description: two equal horizontal bands of azure (top) and
golden yellow represent grainfields under a blue sky



Ukraine    Economy

Economy - overview: After Russia, the Ukrainian republic was far and
away the most important economic component of the former Soviet
Union, producing about four times the output of the next-ranking
republic. Its fertile black soil generated more than one-fourth of
Soviet agricultural output, and its farms provided substantial
quantities of meat, milk, grain, and vegetables to other republics.
Likewise, its diversified heavy industry supplied the unique
equipment (for example, large diameter pipes) and raw materials to
industrial and mining sites (vertical drilling apparatus) in other
regions of the former USSR. Ukraine depends on imports of energy,
especially natural gas, to meet some 85% of its annual energy
requirements. Shortly after independence in late 1991, the Ukrainian
Government liberalized most prices and erected a legal framework for
privatization, but widespread resistance to reform within the
government and the legislature soon stalled reform efforts and led
to some backtracking. Output in 1992-99 fell to less than 40% the
1991 level. Loose monetary policies pushed inflation to
hyperinflationary levels in late 1993. Ukraine's dependence on
Russia for energy supplies and the lack of significant structural
reform have made the Ukrainian economy vulnerable to external
shocks. Now in his second term, President KUCHMA has pledged to
reduce the number of government agencies and streamline the
regulation process, create a legal environment to encourage
entrepreneurs and protect ownership rights, and enact a
comprehensive tax overhaul. Reforms in the more politically
sensitive areas of structural reform and land privatization are
still lagging. Outside institutions - particularly the IMF - have
encouraged Ukraine to quicken the pace and scope of reforms and have
threatened to withdraw financial support. GDP in 2000 showed strong
export-based growth of 6% - the first growth since independence -
and industrial production grew 12.9%. As the capacity for further
export-based economic expansion diminishes, GDP growth in 2001 is
likely to decline to around 3%.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $189.4 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 6% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $3,850 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  12%

industry:  26%

services:  62% (1998 est.)

Population below poverty line: 50% (1999 est.)

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:
3.9%

highest 10%:  26.4% (1996)

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 25.8% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 22.8 million (yearend 1997)

Labor force - by occupation: industry 32%, agriculture 24%, services
44% (1996)

Unemployment rate: 4.3% officially registered; large number of
unregistered or underemployed workers (December 1999)

Budget: revenues:  $8.3 billion

expenditures:  $8.8 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
(1999 est.)

Industries: coal, electric power, ferrous and nonferrous metals,
machinery and transport equipment, chemicals, food processing
(especially sugar)

Industrial production growth rate: 12.9% (2000 est.)

Electricity - production: 157.823 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  47.67%

hydro:  9.65%

nuclear:  42.67%

other:  0.01% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 146.675 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 2.3 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 2.2 billion kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: grain, sugar beets, sunflower seeds,
vegetables; beef, milk

Exports: $14.6 billion (2000 est.)

Exports - commodities: ferrous and nonferrous metals, fuel and
petroleum products, machinery and transport equipment, food products

Exports - partners: Russia 24%, Europe 30%, US 5% (2000 est.)

Imports: $15 billion (2000 est.)

Imports - commodities: energy, machinery and parts, transportation
equipment, chemicals

Imports - partners: Russia 42%, Europe 29%, US 3% (2000 est.)

Debt - external: $10.3 billion (2000)

Economic aid - recipient: $637.7 million (1995); IMF Extended Funds
Facility $2.2 billion (1998)

Currency: hryvnia (UAH)

Currency code: UAH

Exchange rates: hryvnia per US dollar - 5.4331 (January 2001),
5.4402 (2000), 4.1304 (1999), 2.4495 (1998), 1.8617 (1997), 1.8295
(1996)

Fiscal year: calendar year



Ukraine    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 9.45 million (April 1999)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 236,000 (1998)

Telephone system: general assessment:  Ukraine's telecommunication
development plan, running through 2005, emphasizes improving
domestic trunk lines, international connections, and the mobile
cellular system

domestic:  at independence in December 1991, Ukraine inherited a
telephone system that was antiquated, inefficient, and in disrepair;
more than 3.5 million applications for telephones could not be
satisfied; telephone density is now rising slowly and the domestic
trunk system is being improved; the mobile cellular telephone system
is expanding at a high rate

international:  two new domestic trunk lines are a part of the
fiber-optic Trans-Asia-Europe (TAE) system and three Ukrainian links
have been installed in the fiber-optic Trans-European Lines (TEL)
project which connects 18 countries; additional international
service is provided by the Italy-Turkey-Ukraine-Russia (ITUR)
fiber-optic submarine cable and by earth stations in the Intelsat,
Inmarsat, and Intersputnik satellite systems

Radio broadcast stations: AM 134, FM 289, shortwave 4 (1998)

Radios: 45.05 million (1997)

Television broadcast stations: at least 33 (plus 21 repeaters that
relay broadcasts from Russia) (1997)

Televisions: 18.05 million (1997)

Internet country code: .ua

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 32 (2000)

Internet users: 200,000 (2000)



Ukraine    Transportation

Railways: total:  23,350 km

broad gauge:  23,350 km 1.524-m gauge (8,600 km electrified)

Highways: total:  273,700 km

paved:  236,400 km (including 1,770 km of expressways); note -
(these roads are said to be hard-surfaced, and include, in addition
to conventionally paved roads, some that are surfaced with gravel or
other coarse aggregate, making them trafficable in all weather)

unpaved:  37,300 km (these roads are made of unstabilized earth and
are difficult to negotiate in wet weather) (1990)

Waterways: 4,499 km

note:  (1,672 km are on the Pryp'yat' and Dnistr) (1990)

Pipelines: crude oil 4,000 km (1995); petroleum products 4,500 km
(1995); natural gas 34,400 km (1998)

Ports and harbors: Berdyans'k, Illichivs'k, Izmayil, Kerch, Kherson,
Kiev (Kyyiv), Mariupol', Mykolayiv, Odesa, Reni, Sevastopol'

Merchant marine: total:  156 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
757,582 GRT/841,755 DWT

ships by type:  bulk 8, cargo 110, container 3, liquefied gas 2,
passenger 11, passenger/cargo 2, petroleum tanker 14, railcar
carrier 2, roll on/roll off 2, short-sea passenger 2 (2000 est.)

Airports: 718 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  114

over 3,047 m:  14

2,438 to 3,047 m:  50

1,524 to 2,437 m:  21

914 to 1,523 m:  3

under 914 m:  26 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  604

over 3,047 m:  13

2,438 to 3,047 m:  37

1,524 to 2,437 m:  52

914 to 1,523 m:  45

under 914 m:  457 (2000 est.)



Ukraine    Military

Military branches: Army, Navy, Air Force, Air Defense Force,
Internal Troops, Border Troops

Military manpower - military age: 18 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  12,285,623 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
9,630,184 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  390,823
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $500 million (FY99)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 1.4% (FY99)



Ukraine    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: has made no territorial claim in
Antarctica (but has reserved the right to do so) and does not
recognize the claims of any other nation

Illicit drugs: limited cultivation of cannabis and opium poppy,
mostly for CIS consumption; some synthetic drug production for
export to West; limited government eradication program; used as
transshipment point for opiates and other illicit drugs from Africa,
Latin America, and Turkey, and to Europe and Russia; drug-related
money laundering a minor, but growing, problem

======================================================================

@United Arab Emirates




United Arab Emirates    Introduction

Background: The Trucial States of the Persian Gulf coast granted the
UK control of their defense and foreign affairs in 19th century
treaties. In 1971, six of these states - Abu Zaby, 'Ajman, Al
Fujayrah, Ash Shariqah, Dubayy, and Umm al Qaywayn - merged to form
the UAE. They were joined in 1972 by Ra's al Khaymah. The UAE's per
capita GDP is not far below those of the leading West European
nations. Its generosity with oil revenues and its moderate foreign
policy stance have allowed it to play a vital role in the affairs of
the region.



United Arab Emirates    Geography

Location: Middle East, bordering the Gulf of Oman and the Persian
Gulf, between Oman and Saudi Arabia

Geographic coordinates: 24 00 N, 54 00 E

Map references: Middle East

Area: total:  82,880 sq km

land:  82,880 sq km

water:  0 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly smaller than Maine

Land boundaries: total:  867 km

border countries:  Oman 410 km, Saudi Arabia 457 km

Coastline: 1,318 km

Maritime claims: contiguous zone:  24 NM

continental shelf:  200 NM or to the edge of the continental margin

exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: desert; cooler in eastern mountains

Terrain: flat, barren coastal plain merging into rolling sand dunes
of vast desert wasteland; mountains in east

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Persian Gulf 0 m

highest point:  Jabal Yibir 1,527 m

Natural resources: petroleum, natural gas

Land use: arable land:  0%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  2%

forests and woodland:  0%

other:  98% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 50 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: frequent sand and dust storms

Environment - current issues: lack of natural freshwater resources
being overcome by desalination plants; desertification; beach
pollution from oil spills

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous
Wastes, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection

signed, but not ratified:  Law of the Sea

Geography - note: strategic location along southern approaches to
Strait of Hormuz, a vital transit point for world crude oil



United Arab Emirates    People

Population: 2,407,460

note:  includes 1,576,472 non-nationals (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  28.86% (male 354,298; female 340,498)

15-64 years:  68.74% (male 1,047,839; female 607,020)

65 years and over:  2.4% (male 40,626; female 17,179) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 1.59% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 18.11 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 3.79 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 1.61 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1.73 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  2.36 male(s)/female

total population:  1.5 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 16.68 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  74.29 years

male:  71.84 years

female:  76.86 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 3.23 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 0.18% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: NA

HIV/AIDS - deaths: NA

Nationality: noun:  Emirati(s)

adjective:  Emirati

Ethnic groups: Emirati 19%, other Arab and Iranian 23%, South Asian
50%, other expatriates (includes Westerners and East Asians) 8%
(1982)

note:  less than 20% are UAE citizens (1982)

Religions: Muslim 96% (Shi'a 16%), Christian, Hindu, and other 4%

Languages: Arabic (official), Persian, English, Hindi, Urdu

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  79.2%

male:  78.9%

female:  79.8% (1995 est.)



United Arab Emirates    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  United Arab Emirates

conventional short form:  none

local long form:  Al Imarat al Arabiyah al Muttahidah

local short form:  none

former:  Trucial Oman, Trucial States

abbreviation:  UAE

Government type: federation with specified powers delegated to the
UAE federal government and other powers reserved to member emirates

Capital: Abu Dhabi

Administrative divisions: 7 emirates (imarat, singular - imarah);
Abu Zaby (Abu Dhabi), 'Ajman, Al Fujayrah, Ash Shariqah (Sharjah),
Dubayy (Dubai), Ra's al Khaymah, Umm al Qaywayn

Independence: 2 December 1971 (from UK)

National holiday: Independence Day, 2 December (1971)

Constitution: 2 December 1971 (made permanent in 1996)

Legal system: federal court system introduced in 1971; all emirates
except Dubayy (Dubai) and Ra's al Khaymah have joined the federal
system; all emirates have secular and Islamic law for civil,
criminal, and high courts

Suffrage: none

Executive branch: chief of state:  President ZAYID bin Sultan Al
Nuhayyan (since 2 December 1971), ruler of Abu Zaby (Abu Dhabi)
(since 6 August 1966) and Vice President MAKTUM bin Rashid al-Maktum
(since 8 October 1990), ruler of Dubayy (Dubai)

head of government:  Prime Minister MAKTUM bin Rashid al-Maktum
(since 8 October 1990), ruler of Dubayy (Dubai); Deputy Prime
Minister SULTAN bin Zayid Al Nuhayyan (since 20 November 1990)

cabinet:  Council of Ministers appointed by the president

note:  there is also a Federal Supreme Council (FSC) which is
composed of the seven emirate rulers; the council is the highest
constitutional authority in the UAE; establishes general policies
and sanctions federal legislation, Abu Zaby (Abu Dhabi) and Dubayy
(Dubai) rulers have effective veto power; meets four times a year

elections:  president and vice president elected by the FSC (a group
of seven electors) for five-year terms; election last held NA
October 1996 (next to be held NA October 2001); prime minister and
deputy prime minister appointed by the president

election results:  ZAYID bin Sultan Al Nuhayyan reelected president;
percent of FSC vote - NA, but believed to be unanimous; MAKTUM bin
Rashid al-Maktum elected vice president; percent of FSC vote - NA%,
but believed to be unanimous

Legislative branch: unicameral Federal National Council or Majlis
al-Ittihad al-Watani (40 seats; members appointed by the rulers of
the constituent states to serve two-year terms)

elections:  none

note:  reviews legislation, but cannot change or veto

Judicial branch: Union Supreme Court (judges are appointed by the
president)

Political parties and leaders: none

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: ABEDA, AFESD, AL, AMF,
CAEU, CCC, ESCWA, FAO, G-77, GCC, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICRM, IDA, IDB,
IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat, Interpol,
IOC, ISO, ITU, NAM, OAPEC, OIC, OPCW, OPEC, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO,
UNIDO, UPU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTrO

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Asri Said Ahmad al-DHAHIRI

chancery:  Suite 700, 1255 22nd Street NW, Washington, DC 20037

telephone:  [1] (202) 955-7999

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Theodore H. KATTOUF

embassy:  Al-Sudan Street, Abu Dhabi

mailing address:  P. O. Box 4009, Abu Dhabi; American Embassy Abu
Dhabi, Department of State, Washington, DC 20521-6010 (pouch); note
- work week is Saturday through Wednesday

telephone:  [971] (2) 4436691

FAX:  [971] (2) 4435441

consulate(s) general:  Dubai

Flag description: three equal horizontal bands of green (top),
white, and black with a thicker vertical red band on the hoist side



United Arab Emirates    Economy

Economy - overview: The UAE has an open economy with a high per
capita income and a sizable annual trade surplus. Its wealth is
based on oil and gas output (about 33% of GDP), and the fortunes of
the economy fluctuate with the prices of those commodities. Since
1973, the UAE has undergone a profound transformation from an
impoverished region of small desert principalities to a modern state
with a high standard of living. At present levels of production, oil
and gas reserves should last for more than 100 years. Despite higher
oil revenues in 1999-2000, the government has not drawn back from
the economic reforms implemented during the 1998 oil price
depression. The government has increased spending on job creation
and infrastructure expansion and is opening up its utilities to
greater private-sector involvement.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $54 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 4% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $22,800 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  3%

industry:  52%

services:  45% (1996 est.)

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 4.5% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 1.4 million (1998 est.)

note:  75% of the population in the 15-64 age group is non-national
(July 1998 est.)

Labor force - by occupation: services 60%, industry 32%, agriculture
8% (1996 est.)

Unemployment rate: NA%

Budget: revenues:  $6.5 billion

expenditures:  $7.3 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
(2000 est.)

Industries: petroleum, fishing, petrochemicals, construction
materials, some boat building, handicrafts, pearling

Industrial production growth rate: 4% (2000)

Electricity - production: 36.7 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  100%

hydro:  0%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 34.131 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: dates, vegetables, watermelons; poultry,
eggs, dairy products; fish

Exports: $46 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Exports - commodities: crude oil 45%, natural gas, reexports, dried
fish, dates

Exports - partners: Japan 30%, India 7%, Singapore 6%, South Korea
4%, Oman, Iran (1999)

Imports: $34 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Imports - commodities: machinery and transport equipment, chemicals,
food

Imports - partners: Japan 9%, US 8%, UK 8%, Italy 6%, Germany, South
Korea (1999)

Debt - external: $12.6 billion (2000 est.)

Economic aid - recipient: $NA

Currency: Emirati dirham (AED)

Currency code: AED

Exchange rates: Emirati dirhams per US dollar - central bank
mid-point rate: 3.6725 (since 1998); 3.6711 (1997), 3.6710 (1995-96)

Fiscal year: calendar year



United Arab Emirates    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 915,223 (1998)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 1 million (1999)

Telephone system: general assessment:  modern system consisting of
microwave radio relay and coaxial cable; key centers are Abu Dhabi
and Dubai

domestic:  microwave radio relay and coaxial cable

international:  satellite earth stations - 3 Intelsat (1 Atlantic
Ocean and 2 Indian Ocean) and 1 Arabsat; submarine cables to Qatar,
Bahrain, India, and Pakistan; tropospheric scatter to Bahrain;
microwave radio relay to Saudi Arabia

Radio broadcast stations: AM 13, FM 7, shortwave 2 (1998)

Radios: 820,000 (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 15 (1997)

Televisions: 310,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .ae

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 1 (2000)

Internet users: 400,000 (2000)



United Arab Emirates    Transportation

Railways: 0 km

Highways: total:  4,835 km

paved:  4,835 km

unpaved:  0 km (1998 est.)

Waterways: none

Pipelines: crude oil 830 km; natural gas, including natural gas
liquids, 870 km

Ports and harbors: 'Ajman, Al Fujayrah, Das Island, Khawr Fakkan,
Mina' Jabal 'Ali, Mina' Khalid, Mina' Rashid, Mina' Saqr, Mina'
Zayid, Umm al Qaywayn

Merchant marine: total:  70 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
1,094,256 GRT/1,421,333 DWT

ships by type:  cargo 16, chemical tanker 3, container 17, liquefied
gas 1, livestock carrier 1, passenger 1, petroleum tanker 24, roll
on/roll off 6, specialized tanker 1 (2000 est.)

Airports: 40 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  22

over 3,047 m:  8

2,438 to 3,047 m:  3

1,524 to 2,437 m:  4

914 to 1,523 m:  3

under 914 m:  4 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  18

over 3,047 m:  1

2,438 to 3,047 m:  1

1,524 to 2,437 m:  4

914 to 1,523 m:  9

under 914 m:  3 (2000 est.)

Heliports: 2 (2000 est.)



United Arab Emirates    Military

Military branches: Army, Navy, Air Force, Air Defense, paramilitary
(includes Federal Police Force)

Military manpower - military age: 18 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  778,842

note:  includes non-nationals (2001 est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
420,484 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  25,482
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $1.6 billion (FY00)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 3.1% (FY00)



United Arab Emirates    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: location and status of boundary with Saudi
Arabia is not final, de facto boundary reflects 1974 agreement;
boundary with Oman has not been bilaterally defined; northern
section in the Musandam Peninsula is an administrative boundary;
claims two islands in the Persian Gulf occupied by Iran: Lesser Tunb
(called Tunb as Sughra in Arabic by UAE and Jazireh-ye Tonb-e Kuchek
in Persian by Iran) and Greater Tunb (called Tunb al Kubra in Arabic
by UAE and Jazireh-ye Tonb-e Bozorg in Persian by Iran); claims
island in the Persian Gulf jointly administered with Iran (called
Abu Musa in Arabic by UAE and Jazireh-ye Abu Musa in Persian by
Iran) - over which Iran has taken steps to exert unilateral control
since 1992, including access restrictions and a military build-up on
the island; the UAE has garnered significant diplomatic support in
the region in protesting these Iranian actions

Illicit drugs: growing role as heroin transshipment and
money-laundering center due to its proximity to southwest Asian
producing countries and the bustling free trade zone in Dubai

======================================================================

@United Kingdom




United Kingdom    Introduction

Background: Great Britain, the dominant industrial and maritime
power of the 19th century, played a leading role in developing
parliamentary democracy and in advancing literature and science. At
its zenith, the British Empire stretched over one-fourth of the
earth's surface. The first half of the 20th century saw the UK's
strength seriously depleted in two World Wars. The second half
witnessed the dismantling of the Empire and the UK rebuilding itself
into a modern and prosperous European nation. As one of five
permanent members of the UN Security Council, a founding member of
NATO, and of the Commonwealth, the UK pursues a global approach to
foreign policy; it currently is weighing the degree of its
integration with continental Europe. A member of the EU, it chose to
remain outside of the European Monetary Union for the time being.
Constitutional reform is also a significant issue in the UK.
Regional assemblies with varying degrees of power opened in
Scotland, Wales, and Northern Ireland in 1999.



United Kingdom    Geography

Location: Western Europe, islands including the northern one-sixth
of the island of Ireland between the North Atlantic Ocean and the
North Sea, northwest of France

Geographic coordinates: 54 00 N, 2 00 W

Map references: Europe

Area: total:  244,820 sq km

land:  241,590 sq km

water:  3,230 sq km

note:  includes Rockall and Shetland Islands

Area - comparative: slightly smaller than Oregon

Land boundaries: total:  360 km

border countries:  Ireland 360 km

Coastline: 12,429 km

Maritime claims: continental shelf:  as defined in continental shelf
orders or in accordance with agreed upon boundaries

exclusive fishing zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: temperate; moderated by prevailing southwest winds over the
North Atlantic Current; more than one-half of the days are overcast

Terrain: mostly rugged hills and low mountains; level to rolling
plains in east and southeast

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Fenland -4 m

highest point:  Ben Nevis 1,343 m

Natural resources: coal, petroleum, natural gas, tin, limestone,
iron ore, salt, clay, chalk, gypsum, lead, silica, arable land

Land use: arable land:  25%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  46%

forests and woodland:  10%

other:  19% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 1,080 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: NA

Environment - current issues: continues to reduce greenhouse gas
emissions (has meet Kyoto Protocol target of a 12.5% reduction from
1990 levels and hopes to reduce even more); small particulate
emissions, largely from vehicular traffic, remain a problem; solid
waste continues to rise and recycling is very limited

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Air Pollution,
Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air Pollution-Sulphur 94, Air
Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds, Antarctic-Environmental
Protocol, Antarctic-Marine Living Resources, Antarctic Seals,
Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification,
Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes,
Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Marine Life Conservation, Nuclear
Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber
83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling

signed, but not ratified:  Air Pollution-Persistent Organic
Pollutants, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol

Geography - note: lies near vital North Atlantic sea lanes; only 35
km from France and now linked by tunnel under the English Channel;
because of heavily indented coastline, no location is more than 125
km from tidal waters



United Kingdom    People

Population: 59,647,790 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  18.89% (male 5,778,415; female 5,486,114)

15-64 years:  65.41% (male 19,712,932; female 19,304,771)

65 years and over:  15.7% (male 3,895,921; female 5,469,637) (2001
est.)

Population growth rate: 0.23% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 11.54 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 10.35 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 1.07 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1.02 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.71 male(s)/female

total population:  0.97 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 5.54 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  77.82 years

male:  75.13 years

female:  80.66 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 1.73 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 0.11% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 31,000 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: 450 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Briton(s), British (collective plural)

adjective:  British

Ethnic groups: English 81.5%, Scottish 9.6%, Irish 2.4%, Welsh 1.9%,
Ulster 1.8%, West Indian, Indian, Pakistani, and other 2.8%

Religions: Anglican 27 million, Roman Catholic 9 million, Muslim 1
million, Presbyterian 800,000, Methodist 760,000, Sikh 400,000,
Hindu 350,000, Jewish 300,000 (1991 est.)

Languages: English, Welsh (about 26% of the population of Wales),
Scottish form of Gaelic (about 60,000 in Scotland)

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over has completed five or more
years of schooling

total population:  99% (1978 est.)

male:  NA%

female:  NA%



United Kingdom    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland

conventional short form:  United Kingdom

abbreviation:  UK

Government type: constitutional monarchy

Capital: London

Administrative divisions: England - 47 boroughs, 36 counties*, 29
London boroughs**, 12 cities and boroughs***, 10 districts****, 12
cities*****, 3 royal boroughs******; Barking and Dagenham**,
Barnet**, Barnsley, Bath and North East Somerset****, Bedfordshire*,
Bexley**, Birmingham***, Blackburn with Darwen, Blackpool, Bolton,
Bournemouth, Bracknell Forest, Bradford***, Brent**, Brighton and
Hove, City of Bristol*****, Bromley**, Buckinghamshire*, Bury,
Calderdale, Cambridgeshire*, Camden**, Cheshire*, Cornwall*,
Coventry***, Croydon**, Cumbria*, Darlington, Derby*****,
Derbyshire*, Devon*, Doncaster, Dorset*, Dudley, Durham*, Ealing**,
East Riding of Yorkshire****, East Sussex*, Enfield**, Essex*,
Gateshead, Gloucestershire*, Greenwich**, Hackney**, Halton,
Hammersmith and Fulham**, Hampshire*, Haringey**, Harrow**,
Hartlepool, Havering**, Herefordshire*, Hertfordshire*,
Hillingdon**, Hounslow**, Isle of Wight*, Islington**, Kensington
and Chelsea******, Kent*, City of Kingston upon Hull*****, Kingston
upon Thames******, Kirklees, Knowsley, Lambeth**, Lancashire*,
Leeds***, Leicester*****, Leicestershire*, Lewisham**,
Lincolnshire*, Liverpool***, City of London*****, Luton,
Manchester***, Medway, Merton**, Middlesbrough, Milton Keynes,
Newcastle upon Tyne***, Newham**, Norfolk*, Northamptonshire*, North
East Lincolnshire****, North Lincolnshire****, North Somerset****,
North Tyneside, Northumberland*, North Yorkshire*, Nottingham*****,
Nottinghamshire*, Oldham, Oxfordshire*, Peterborough*****,
Plymouth*****, Poole, Portsmouth*****, Reading, Redbridge**, Redcar
and Cleveland, Richmond upon Thames**, Rochdale, Rotherham,
Rutland****, Salford***, Shropshire*, Sandwell, Sefton,
Sheffield***, Slough, Solihull, Somerset*, Southampton*****,
Southend-on-Sea, South Gloucestershire****, South Tyneside,
Southwark**, Staffordshire*, St. Helens, Stockport,
Stockton-on-Tees, Stoke-on-Trent*****, Suffolk*, Sunderland***,
Surrey*, Sutton**, Swindon, Tameside, Telford and Wrekin****,
Thurrock, Torbay, Tower Hamlets**, Trafford, Wakefield***, Walsall,
Waltham Forest**, Wandsworth**, Warrington, Warwickshire*, West
Berkshire****, Westminster***, West Sussex*, Wigan, Wiltshire*,
Windsor and Maidenhead******, Wirral, Wokingham****, Wolverhampton,
Worcestershire*, York*****; Northern Ireland - 24 districts, 2
cities*; Antrim, Ards, Armagh, Ballymena, Ballymoney, Banbridge,
Belfast*, Carrickfergus, Castlereagh, Coleraine, Cookstown,
Craigavon, Down, Dungannon, Fermanagh, Larne, Limavady, Lisburn,
Derry*, Magherafelt, Moyle, Newry and Mourne, Newtownabbey, North
Down, Omagh, Strabane; Scotland - 32 council areas; Aberdeen City,
Aberdeenshire, Angus, Argyll and Bute, The Scottish Borders,
Clackmannanshire, Dumfries and Galloway, Dundee City, East Ayrshire,
East Dunbartonshire, East Lothian, East Renfrewshire, City of
Edinburgh, Falkirk, Fife, Glasgow City, Highland, Inverclyde,
Midlothian, Moray, North Ayrshire, North Lanarkshire, Orkney
Islands, Perth and Kinross, Renfrewshire, Shetland Islands, South
Ayrshire, South Lanarkshire, Stirling, West Dunbartonshire, Eilean
Siar (Western Isles), West Lothian; Wales - 11 county boroughs, 9
counties*, 2 cities and counties**; Isle of Anglesey*, Blaenau
Gwent, Bridgend, Caerphilly, Cardiff**, Ceredigion*,
Carmarthenshire*, Conwy, Denbighshire*, Flintshire*, Gwynedd,
Merthyr Tydfil, Monmouthshire*, Neath Port Talbot, Newport,
Pembrokeshire*, Powys*, Rhondda Cynon Taff, Swansea**, Torfaen, The
Vale of Glamorgan*, Wrexham

Dependent areas: Anguilla, Bermuda, British Indian Ocean Territory,
British Virgin Islands, Cayman Islands, Falkland Islands, Gibraltar,
Guernsey, Jersey, Isle of Man, Montserrat, Pitcairn Islands, Saint
Helena, South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands, Turks and
Caicos Islands

Independence: England has existed as a unified entity since the 10th
century; the union between England and Wales was enacted under the
Statute of Rhuddlan in 1284; in the Act of Union of 1707, England
and Scotland agreed to permanent union as Great Britain; the
legislative union of Great Britain and Ireland was implemented in
1801, with the adoption of the name the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Ireland; the Anglo-Irish treaty of 1921 formalized a
partition of Ireland; six northern Irish counties remained part of
the United Kingdom as Northern Ireland and the current name of the
country, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland,
was adopted in 1927

National holiday: Birthday of Queen ELIZABETH II, celebrated on the
second Saturday in June (1926)

Constitution: unwritten; partly statutes, partly common law and
practice

Legal system: common law tradition with early Roman and modern
continental influences; no judicial review of Acts of Parliament;
accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction, with reservations; British
courts and legislation are increasingly subject to review by
European Union courts

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6
February 1952); Heir Apparent Prince CHARLES (son of the queen, born
14 November 1948)

head of government:  Prime Minister Anthony C. L. (Tony) BLAIR
(since 2 May 1997)

cabinet:  Cabinet of Ministers appointed by the prime minister

elections:  none; the monarch is hereditary; the prime minister is
the leader of the majority party in the House of Commons (assuming
there is no majority party, a prime minister would have a majority
coalition or at least a coalition that was not rejected by the
majority)

Legislative branch: bicameral Parliament comprised of House of Lords
(consists of approximately 500 life peers, 92 hereditary peers and
26 clergy) and House of Commons (659 seats; members are elected by
popular vote to serve five-year terms unless the House is dissolved
earlier)

elections:  House of Lords - no elections (some proposals for
further reform include elections); House of Commons - last held 7
June 2001 (next to be held by NA May 2006)

election results:  House of Commons - percent of vote by party -
NA%; seats by party - Labor 412, Conservative and Unionist 166,
Liberal Democrat 52, other 29

note:  in 1998 elections were held for a Northern Ireland Parliament
(because of unresolved disputes among existing parties, the transfer
of power from London to Northern Ireland came only at the end of
1999 and was rescinded in February 2000); in 1999 there were
elections for a new Scottish Parliament and a new Welsh Assembly

Judicial branch: House of Lords (highest court of appeal; several
Lords of Appeal in Ordinary are appointed by the monarch for life);
Supreme Courts of England, Wales, and Northern Ireland (comprising
the Courts of Appeal, the High Courts of Justice, and the Crown
Courts); Scotland's Court of Session and Court of the Justiciary

Political parties and leaders: Conservative and Unionist Party
[William HAGUE]; Democratic Unionist Party (Northern Ireland) [Rev.
Ian PAISLEY]; Labor Party [Anthony (Tony) Blair]; Liberal Democrats
[Charles KENNEDY]; Party of Wales (Plaid Cymru) [Ieuan Wyn JONES];
Scottish National Party or SNP [John SWINNEY]; Sinn Fein (Northern
Ireland) [Gerry ADAMS]; Social Democratic and Labor Party or SDLP
(Northern Ireland) [John HUME]; Ulster Unionist Party (Northern
Ireland) [David TRIMBLE]

Political pressure groups and leaders: Campaign for Nuclear
Disarmament; Confederation of British Industry; National Farmers'
Union; Trades Union Congress

International organization participation: AfDB, AsDB, Australia
Group, BIS, C, CCC, CDB (non-regional), CE, CERN, EAPC, EBRD, ECA
(associate), ECE, ECLAC, EIB, ESA, ESCAP, EU, FAO, G- 5, G- 7, G-10,
IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IEA, IFAD, IFC,
IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM
(observer), ISO, ITU, MONUC, NAM (guest), NATO, NEA, NSG, OAS
(observer), OECD, OPCW, OSCE, PCA, SPC, UN, UN Security Council,
UNAMSIL, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNFICYP, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNIKOM, UNMIBH,
UNMIK, UNOMIG, UNRWA, UNTAET, UNU, UPU, WCL, WEU, WHO, WIPO, WMO,
WTrO, ZC

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Sir Christopher J. R. MEYER

chancery:  3100 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone:  [1] (202) 588-6500

FAX:  [1] (202) 588-7870

consulate(s) general:  Atlanta, Boston, Chicago, Cleveland, Houston,
Los Angeles, New York, and San Francisco

consulate(s):  Dallas, Denver, Miami, Orlando (reports to Atlanta),
San Juan, and Seattle

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Philip LADER

embassy:  24/31 Grosvenor Square, London, W1A1AE

mailing address:  PSC 801, Box 40, FPO AE 09498-4040

telephone:  [44] (0) 207499-9000 (switchboard)

FAX:  [44] (171) 409-1637

consulate(s) general:  Belfast, Edinburgh

Flag description: blue with the red cross of Saint George (patron
saint of England) edged in white superimposed on the diagonal red
cross of Saint Patrick (patron saint of Ireland) and which is
superimposed on the diagonal white cross of Saint Andrew (patron
saint of Scotland); known as the Union Flag or Union Jack; the
design and colors (especially the Blue Ensign) have been the basis
for a number of other flags including other Commonwealth countries
and their constituent states or provinces, as well as British
overseas territories



United Kingdom    Economy

Economy - overview: The UK, a leading trading power and financial
center, deploys an essentially capitalistic economy, one of the
quartet of trillion dollar economies of Western Europe. Over the
past two decades the government has greatly reduced public ownership
and contained the growth of social welfare programs. Agriculture is
intensive, highly mechanized, and efficient by European standards,
producing about 60% of food needs with only 1% of the labor force.
The UK has large coal, natural gas, and oil reserves; primary energy
production accounts for 10% of GDP, one of the highest shares of any
industrial nation. Services, particularly banking, insurance, and
business services, account by far for the largest proportion of GDP
while industry continues to decline in importance. The economy has
grown steadily, at just above or below 3%, for the last several
years. The BLAIR government has put off the question of
participation in the euro system until after the next election, in
June of 2001; Chancellor of the Exchequer BROWN has identified some
key economic tests to determine whether the UK should join the
common currency system, but it will largely be a political decision.
A serious short-term problem is foot-and-mouth disease, which by
early 2001 had broken out in nearly 600 farms and slaughterhouses
and had resulted in the killing of 400,000 animals.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $1.36 trillion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 3% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $22,800 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  1.7%

industry:  24.9%

services:  73.4% (1999)

Population below poverty line: 17%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:
2.6%

highest 10%:  27.3% (1991)

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 2.4% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 29.2 million (1999)

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture 1%, industry 19%, services
80% (1996 est.)

Unemployment rate: 5.5% (2000 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $555.2 billion

expenditures:  $510.8 billion, including capital expenditures of
$37.7 billion (FY00)

Industries: machine tools, electric power equipment, automation
equipment, railroad equipment, shipbuilding, aircraft, motor
vehicles and parts, electronics and communications equipment,
metals, chemicals, coal, petroleum, paper and paper products, food
processing, textiles, clothing, and other consumer goods

Industrial production growth rate: 2% (2000)

Electricity - production: 342.771 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  69.38%

hydro:  1.55%

nuclear:  26.68%

other:  2.39% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 333.012 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 265 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 14.5 billion kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: cereals, oilseed, potatoes, vegetables;
cattle, sheep, poultry; fish

Exports: $282 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Exports - commodities: manufactured goods, fuels, chemicals; food,
beverages, tobacco

Exports - partners: EU 58% (Germany 12%, France 10%, Netherlands
8%), US 15% (1999)

Imports: $324 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Imports - commodities: manufactured goods, machinery, fuels;
foodstuffs

Imports - partners: EU 53% (Germany 14%, France 9%, Netherlands 7%),
US 13%, Japan 5% (1999)

Debt - external: $NA

Economic aid - donor: ODA, $3.4 billion (1997)

Currency: British pound (GBP)

Currency code: GBP

Exchange rates: British pounds per US dollar - 0.6764 (January
2001), 0.6596 (2000), 0.6180 (1999), 0.6037 (1998), 0.6106 (1997),
0.6403 (1996)

Fiscal year: 1 April - 31 March



United Kingdom    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 34.878 million (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 13 million (yearend 1998)

Telephone system: general assessment:  technologically advanced
domestic and international system

domestic:  equal mix of buried cables, microwave radio relay, and
fiber-optic systems

international:  40 coaxial submarine cables; satellite earth
stations - 10 Intelsat (7 Atlantic Ocean and 3 Indian Ocean), 1
Inmarsat (Atlantic Ocean region), and 1 Eutelsat; at least 8 large
international switching centers

Radio broadcast stations: AM 219, FM 431, shortwave 3 (1998)

Radios: 84.5 million (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 228 (plus 3,523 repeaters) (1995)

Televisions: 30.5 million (1997)

Internet country code: .uk

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 245 (2000)

Internet users: 19.47 million (2000)



United Kingdom    Transportation

Railways: total:  16,878 km

broad gauge:  342 km 1.600-m gauge (190 km double track); note - all
1.600-m gauge track, of which 342 km is in common carrier use, and
is in Northern Ireland

standard gauge:  16,536 km 1.435-m gauge (4,928 km electrified;
12,591 km double or multiple track) (1996)

Highways: total:  371,603 km

paved:  371,603 km (including 3,303 km of expressways)

unpaved:  0 km (1998 est.)

Waterways: 3,200 km

Pipelines: crude oil (almost all insignificant) 933 km; petroleum
products 2,993 km; natural gas 12,800 km

Ports and harbors: Aberdeen, Belfast, Bristol, Cardiff, Dover,
Falmouth, Felixstowe, Glasgow, Grangemouth, Hull, Leith, Liverpool,
London, Manchester, Peterhead, Plymouth, Portsmouth, Scapa Flow,
Southampton, Sullom Voe, Tees, Tyne

Merchant marine: total:  200 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
3,934,776 GRT/3,760,240 DWT

ships by type:  bulk 4, cargo 31, chemical tanker 11, combination
ore/oil 1, container 47, liquefied gas 3, passenger 14,
passenger/cargo 1, petroleum tanker 52, refrigerated cargo 4, roll
on/roll off 19, short-sea passenger 10, specialized tanker 1,
vehicle carrier 2

note:  includes some foreign-owned ships registered here as a flag
of convenience: Denmark 1 (2000 est.)

Airports: 489 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  349

over 3,047 m:  10

2,438 to 3,047 m:  33

1,524 to 2,437 m:  162

914 to 1,523 m:  89

under 914 m:  55 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  140

1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

914 to 1,523 m:  23

under 914 m:  116 (2000 est.)

Heliports: 11 (2000 est.)



United Kingdom    Military

Military branches: Army, Royal Navy (includes Royal Marines), Royal
Air Force

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  14,599,199 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
12,139,930 (2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $36.884 billion (FY97)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 2.7% (FY97)



United Kingdom    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: Northern Ireland issue with Ireland
(historic peace agreement signed 10 April 1998); Gibraltar issue
with Spain; Argentina claims Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas);
Argentina claims South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands;
Mauritius and the Seychelles claim Chagos Archipelago
(UK-administered British Indian Ocean Territory); Rockall
continental shelf dispute involving Denmark and Iceland; territorial
claim in Antarctica (British Antarctic Territory) overlaps Argentine
claim and partially overlaps Chilean claim; disputes with Iceland,
Denmark, and Ireland over the Faroe Islands continental shelf
boundary outside 200 NM

Illicit drugs: gateway country for Latin American cocaine entering
the European market; major consumer of synthetic drugs, producer of
limited amounts of synthetic drugs and synthetic precursor
chemicals; major consumer of Southwest Asian heroin;
money-laundering center

======================================================================

@United States




United States    Introduction

Background: The United States became the world's first modern
democracy after its break with Great Britain (1776) and the adoption
of a constitution (1789). During the 19th century, many new states
were added to the original 13 as the nation expanded across the
North American continent and acquired a number of overseas
possessions. The two most traumatic experiences in the nation's
history were the Civil War (1861-65) and the Great Depression of the
1930s. Buoyed by victories in World Wars I and II and the end of the
Cold War in 1991, the US remains the world's most powerful
nation-state. The economy is marked by steady growth, low
unemployment and inflation, and rapid advances in technology.



United States    Geography

Location: North America, bordering both the North Atlantic Ocean and
the North Pacific Ocean, between Canada and Mexico

Geographic coordinates: 38 00 N, 97 00 W

Map references: North America

Area: total:  9,629,091 sq km

land:  9,158,960 sq km

water:  470,131 sq km

note:  includes only the 50 states and District of Columbia

Area - comparative: about one-half the size of Russia; about
three-tenths the size of Africa; about one-half the size of South
America (or slightly larger than Brazil); slightly larger than
China; about two and one-half times the size of Western Europe

Land boundaries: total:  12,248 km

border countries:  Canada 8,893 km (including 2,477 km with Alaska),
Cuba 29 km (US Naval Base at Guantanamo Bay), Mexico 3,326 km

note:  Guantanamo Naval Base is leased by the US and thus remains
part of Cuba

Coastline: 19,924 km

Maritime claims: contiguous zone:  24 NM

continental shelf:  not specified

exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: mostly temperate, but tropical in Hawaii and Florida,
arctic in Alaska, semiarid in the great plains west of the
Mississippi River, and arid in the Great Basin of the southwest; low
winter temperatures in the northwest are ameliorated occasionally in
January and February by warm chinook winds from the eastern slopes
of the Rocky Mountains

Terrain: vast central plain, mountains in west, hills and low
mountains in east; rugged mountains and broad river valleys in
Alaska; rugged, volcanic topography in Hawaii

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Death Valley -86 m

highest point:  Mount McKinley 6,194 m

Natural resources: coal, copper, lead, molybdenum, phosphates,
uranium, bauxite, gold, iron, mercury, nickel, potash, silver,
tungsten, zinc, petroleum, natural gas, timber

Land use: arable land:  19%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  25%

forests and woodland:  30%

other:  26% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 207,000 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: tsunamis, volcanoes, and earthquake activity around
Pacific Basin; hurricanes along the Atlantic and Gulf of Mexico
coasts; tornadoes in the midwest and southeast; mud slides in
California; forest fires in the west; flooding; permafrost in
northern Alaska, a major impediment to development

Environment - current issues: air pollution resulting in acid rain
in both the US and Canada; the US is the largest single emitter of
carbon dioxide from the burning of fossil fuels; water pollution
from runoff of pesticides and fertilizers; very limited natural
fresh water resources in much of the western part of the country
require careful management; desertification

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Air Pollution,
Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Antarctic-Environmental Protocol,
Antarctic-Marine Living Resources, Antarctic Seals, Antarctic
Treaty, Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species,
Environmental Modification, Marine Dumping, Marine Life
Conservation, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship
Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling

signed, but not ratified:  Air Pollution-Persistent Organic
Pollutants, Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds, Biodiversity,
Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Hazardous Wastes

Geography - note: world's third-largest country (after Russia and
Canada)



United States    People

Population: 278,058,881 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  21.12% (male 30,034,674; female
28,681,253)

15-64 years:  66.27% (male 91,371,753; female 92,907,199)

65 years and over:  12.61% (male 14,608,948; female 20,455,054)
(2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 0.9% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 14.2 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 8.7 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 3.5 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  0.98 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.71 male(s)/female

total population:  0.96 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 6.76 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  77.26 years

male:  74.37 years

female:  80.05 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 2.06 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 0.61% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 850,000 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: 20,000 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  American(s)

adjective:  American

Ethnic groups: white 83.5%, black 12.4%, Asian 3.3%, Amerindian 0.8%
(1992)

note:  a separate listing for Hispanic is not included because the
US Census Bureau considers Hispanic to mean a person of Latin
American descent (especially of Cuban, Mexican, or Puerto Rican
origin) living in the US who may be of any race or ethnic group
(white, black, Asian, etc.)

Religions: Protestant 56%, Roman Catholic 28%, Jewish 2%, other 4%,
none 10% (1989)

Languages: English, Spanish (spoken by a sizable minority)

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  97%

male:  97%

female:  97% (1979 est.)



United States    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  United States of America

conventional short form:  United States

abbreviation:  US or USA

Government type: federal republic; strong democratic tradition

Capital: Washington, DC

Administrative divisions: 50 states and 1 district*; Alabama,
Alaska, Arizona, Arkansas, California, Colorado, Connecticut,
Delaware, District of Columbia*, Florida, Georgia, Hawaii, Idaho,
Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maine,
Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, Minnesota, Mississippi, Missouri,
Montana, Nebraska, Nevada, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New Mexico,
New York, North Carolina, North Dakota, Ohio, Oklahoma, Oregon,
Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, South Carolina, South Dakota, Tennessee,
Texas, Utah, Vermont, Virginia, Washington, West Virginia,
Wisconsin, Wyoming

Dependent areas: American Samoa, Baker Island, Guam, Howland Island,
Jarvis Island, Johnston Atoll, Kingman Reef, Midway Islands, Navassa
Island, Northern Mariana Islands, Palmyra Atoll, Puerto Rico, Virgin
Islands, Wake Island

note:  from 18 July 1947 until 1 October 1994, the US administered
the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, but recently entered
into a new political relationship with all four political units: the
Northern Mariana Islands is a commonwealth in political union with
the US (effective 3 November 1986); Palau concluded a Compact of
Free Association with the US (effective 1 October 1994); the
Federated States of Micronesia signed a Compact of Free Association
with the US (effective 3 November 1986); the Republic of the
Marshall Islands signed a Compact of Free Association with the US
(effective 21 October 1986)

Independence: 4 July 1776 (from Great Britain)

National holiday: Independence Day, 4 July (1776)

Constitution: 17 September 1787, effective 4 March 1789

Legal system: based on English common law; judicial review of
legislative acts; accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction, with
reservations

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  President George W. BUSH (since
20 January 2001) and Vice President Richard B. CHENEY (since 20
January 2001); note - the president is both the chief of state and
head of government

head of government:  President George W. BUSH (since 20 January
2001) and Vice President Richard B. CHENEY (since 20 January 2001);
note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
government

cabinet:  Cabinet appointed by the president with Senate approval

elections:  president and vice president elected on the same ticket
by a college of representatives who are elected directly from each
state; president and vice president serve four-year terms; election
last held 7 November 2000 (next to be held NA November 2004)

election results:  George W. BUSH elected president; percent of
popular vote - George W. BUSH (Republican Party) 48%, Albert A.
GORE, Jr. (Democratic Party) 48%, Ralph NADER (Green Party) 3%,
other 1%

Legislative branch: bicameral Congress consists of Senate (100
seats, one-third are renewed every two years; two members are
elected from each state by popular vote to serve six-year terms) and
House of Representatives (435 seats; members are directly elected by
popular vote to serve two-year terms)

elections:  Senate - last held 7 November 2000 (next to be held 4
November 2002); House of Representatives - last held 7 November 2000
(next to be held 4 November 2002)

election results:  Senate - percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by
party - Republican Party 50, Democratic Party 50; House of
Representatives - percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
Republican Party 221, Democratic Party 211, independent 2, vacant 1

Judicial branch: Supreme Court (its nine justices are appointed for
life by the president with confirmation by the Senate); United
States Courts of Appeal; United States District Courts; State and
County Courts

Political parties and leaders: Democratic Party [Terence McAULIFFE,
national committee chairman]; Republican Party [James S. GILMORE
III, national committee chairman]; several other groups or parties
of minor political significance

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: APEC, ARF (dialogue
partner), AsDB, ASEAN (dialogue partner), Australia Group, BIS, CCC,
CE (observer), CERN (observer), CP, EAPC, EBRD, ECE, ECLAC, ESCAP,
FAO, G-5, G-7, G-10, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA,
IEA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat,
Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO, ITU, MINURSO, MIPONUH, NAM (guest), NATO,
NEA, NSG, OAS, OECD, OPCW, OSCE, PCA, SPC, UN, UN Security Council,
UNCTAD, UNHCR, UNIKOM, UNITAR, UNMEE, UNMIBH, UNMIK, UNOMIG, UNRWA,
UNTAET, UNTSO, UNU, UPU, WCL, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTrO, ZC

Flag description: thirteen equal horizontal stripes of red (top and
bottom) alternating with white; there is a blue rectangle in the
upper hoist-side corner bearing 50 small, white, five-pointed stars
arranged in nine offset horizontal rows of six stars (top and
bottom) alternating with rows of five stars; the 50 stars represent
the 50 states, the 13 stripes represent the 13 original colonies;
known as Old Glory; the design and colors have been the basis for a
number of other flags, including Chile, Liberia, Malaysia, and
Puerto Rico



United States    Economy

Economy - overview: The US has the largest and most technologically
powerful economy in the world, with a per capita GDP of $36,200. In
this market-oriented economy, private individuals and business firms
make most of the decisions, and government buys needed goods and
services predominantly in the private marketplace. US business firms
enjoy considerably greater flexibility than their counterparts in
Western Europe and Japan in decisions to expand capital plant, lay
off surplus workers, and develop new products. At the same time,
they face higher barriers to entry in their rivals' home markets
than the barriers to entry of foreign firms in US markets. US firms
are at or near the forefront in technological advances, especially
in computers and in medical, aerospace, and military equipment,
although their advantage has narrowed since the end of World War II.
The onrush of technology largely explains the gradual development of
a "two-tier labor market" in which those at the bottom lack the
education and the professional/technical skills of those at the top
and, more and more, fail to get comparable pay raises, health
insurance coverage, and other benefits. Since 1975, practically all
the gains in household income have gone to the top 20% of
households. The years 1994-2000 witnessed solid increases in real
output, low inflation rates, and a drop in unemployment to below 5%.
Long-term problems include inadequate investment in economic
infrastructure, rapidly rising medical costs of an aging population,
sizable trade deficits, and stagnation of family income in the lower
economic groups. Growth weakened in the fourth quarter of 2000;
growth for the year 2001 almost certainly will be substantially
lower than the strong 5% of 2000. The outlook for 2001 is further
clouded by the continued economic problems of Japan, Russia,
Indonesia, Brazil, and many other countries.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $9.963 trillion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 5% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $36,200 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  2%

industry:  18%

services:  80% (1999)

Population below poverty line: 12.7% (1999 est.)

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:
1.8%

highest 10%:  30.5% (1997)

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 3.4% (2000)

Labor force: 140.9 million (includes unemployed) (2000)

Labor force - by occupation: managerial and professional 30.2%,
technical, sales and administrative support 29.2%, services 13.5%,
manufacturing, mining, transportation, and crafts 24.6%, farming,
forestry, and fishing 2.5% (2000)

note:  figures exclude the unemployed

Unemployment rate: 4% (2000)

Budget: revenues:  $1.828 trillion

expenditures:  $1.703 trillion, including capital expenditures of
$NA (1999)

Industries: leading industrial power in the world, highly
diversified and technologically advanced; petroleum, steel, motor
vehicles, aerospace, telecommunications, chemicals, electronics,
food processing, consumer goods, lumber, mining

Industrial production growth rate: 5.6% (2000 est.)

Electricity - production: 3.678 trillion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  69.64%

hydro:  8.31%

nuclear:  19.8%

other:  2.25% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 3.45 trillion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 14 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 43 billion kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: wheat, other grains, corn, fruits,
vegetables, cotton; beef, pork, poultry, dairy products; forest
products; fish

Exports: $776 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Exports - commodities: capital goods, automobiles, industrial
supplies and raw materials, consumer goods, agricultural products

Exports - partners: Canada 23%, Mexico 14%, Japan 8%, UK 5%, Germany
4%, France, Netherlands (2000)

Imports: $1.223 trillion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Imports - commodities: crude oil and refined petroleum products,
machinery, automobiles, consumer goods, industrial raw materials,
food and beverages

Imports - partners: Canada 19%, Japan 11%, Mexico 11%, China 8%,
Germany 5%, UK, Taiwan (2000)

Debt - external: $862 billion (1995 est.)

Economic aid - donor: ODA, $6.9 billion (1997)

Currency: US dollar (USD)

Currency code: USD

Exchange rates: British pounds per US dollar - 0.6764 (January
2001), 0.6596 (2000), 0.6180 (1999), 0.6037 (1998), 0.6106 (1997),
0.6403 (1996); Canadian dollars per US dollar - 1.5032 (January
2001), 1.4851 (2000), 1.4857 (1999), 1.4835 (1998), 1.3846 (1997),
1.3635 (1996); French francs per US dollar - 5.65 (January 1999),
5.8995 (1998), 5.8367 (1997), 5.1155 (1996), 4.9915 (1995), 5.5520
(1994); Italian lire per US dollar - 1,668.7 (January 1999), 1,763.2
(1998), 1,703.1 (1997), 1,542.9 (1996), 1,628.9 (1995), 1,612.4
(1994); Japanese yen per US dollar - 117.10 (January 2001), 107.77
(2000), 113.91 (1999), 130.91 (1998), 120.99 (1997), 108.78 (1996);
German deutsche marks per US dollar - 1.69 (January 1999), 1.9692
(1998), 1.7341 (1997), 1.5048 (1996), 1.4331 (1995), 1.6228 (1994);
euros per US dollar - 1.06594 (January 2001), 1.08540 (2000),
0.93863 (1999)

note:  financial institutions in France, Italy, and Germany and
eight other European countries started using the euro on 1 January
1999 with the euro replacing the local currency in consenting
countries for all transactions in 2002

Fiscal year: 1 October - 30 September



United States    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 194 million (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 69.209 million (1998)

Telephone system: general assessment:  a very large, technologically
advanced, multipurpose communications system

domestic:  a large system of fiber-optic cable, microwave radio
relay, coaxial cable, and domestic satellites carries every form of
telephone traffic; a rapidly growing cellular system carries mobile
telephone traffic throughout the country

international:  24 ocean cable systems in use; satellite earth
stations - 61 Intelsat (45 Atlantic Ocean and 16 Pacific Ocean), 5
Intersputnik (Atlantic Ocean region), and 4 Inmarsat (Pacific and
Atlantic Ocean regions) (2000)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 4,762, FM 5,542, shortwave 18 (1998)

Radios: 575 million (1997)

Television broadcast stations: more than 1,500 (including nearly
1,000 stations affiliated with the five major networks - NBC, ABC,
CBS, FOX, and PBS; in addition, there are about 9,000 cable TV
systems) (1997)

Televisions: 219 million (1997)

Internet country code: .us

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 7,800 (2000 est.)

Internet users: 148 million (2000)



United States    Transportation

Railways: total:  225,750 km mainline routes

standard gauge:  225,750 km 1.435-m gauge (1999)

Highways: total:  6,370,031 km

paved:  5,733,028 km (including 74,091 km of expressways)

unpaved:  637,003 km (1997)

Waterways: 41,009 km

note:  navigable inland channels, exclusive of the Great Lakes

Pipelines: petroleum products 276,000 km; natural gas 331,000 km
(1991)

Ports and harbors: Anchorage, Baltimore, Boston, Charleston,
Chicago, Duluth, Hampton Roads, Honolulu, Houston, Jacksonville, Los
Angeles, New Orleans, New York, Philadelphia, Port Canaveral,
Portland (Oregon), Prudhoe Bay, San Francisco, Savannah, Seattle,
Tampa, Toledo

Merchant marine: total:  376 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
10,814,622 GRT/14,416,517 DWT

ships by type:  barge carrier 9, bulk 68, cargo 29, chemical tanker
13, combination bulk 3, container 80, liquefied gas 1,
multi-functional large-load carrier 3, passenger 9, passenger/cargo
1, petroleum tanker 98, roll on/roll off 49, short-sea passenger 3,
specialized tanker 1, vehicle carrier 9 (2000 est.)

Airports: 14,720 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  5,174

over 3,047 m:  182

2,438 to 3,047 m:  220

1,524 to 2,437 m:  1,331

914 to 1,523 m:  2,440

under 914 m:  1,001 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  9,546

over 3,047 m:  3

2,438 to 3,047 m:  6

1,524 to 2,437 m:  164

914 to 1,523 m:  1,675

under 914 m:  7,698 (2000 est.)

Heliports: 131 (2000 est.)



United States    Military

Military branches: Department of the Army, Department of the Navy
(includes Marine Corps), Department of the Air Force

note:  the Coast Guard is normally subordinate to the Department of
Transportation, but in wartime reports to the Department of the Navy

Military manpower - military age: 18 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  70,819,436 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: NA

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:
2,039,414 (2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $276.7 billion (FY99 est.)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 3.2% (FY99 est.)



United States    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: maritime boundary disputes with Canada
(Dixon Entrance, Beaufort Sea, Strait of Juan de Fuca, Machias Seal
Island); US Naval Base at Guantanamo Bay is leased from Cuba and
only mutual agreement or US abandonment of the area can terminate
the lease; Haiti claims Navassa Island; US has made no territorial
claim in Antarctica (but has reserved the right to do so) and does
not recognize the claims of any other nation; Marshall Islands
claims Wake Island

Illicit drugs: consumer of cocaine shipped from Colombia through
Mexico and the Caribbean; consumer of heroin, marijuana, and
increasingly methamphetamine from Mexico; consumer of high-quality
Southeast Asian heroin; illicit producer of cannabis, marijuana,
depressants, stimulants, hallucinogens, and methamphetamine;
money-laundering center

======================================================================

@Uruguay




Uruguay    Introduction

Background: A violent Marxist urban guerrilla movement, the
Tupamaros, launched in the late 1960s, led Uruguay's president to
agree to military control of his administration in 1973. By the end
of the year the rebels had been crushed, but the military continued
to expand its hold throughout the government. Civilian rule was not
restored until 1985. Uruguay's political and labor conditions are
among the freest on the continent.



Uruguay    Geography

Location: Southern South America, bordering the South Atlantic
Ocean, between Argentina and Brazil

Geographic coordinates: 33 00 S, 56 00 W

Map references: South America

Area: total:  176,220 sq km

land:  173,620 sq km

water:  2,600 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly smaller than the state of Washington

Land boundaries: total:  1,564 km

border countries:  Argentina 579 km, Brazil 985 km

Coastline: 660 km

Maritime claims: contiguous zone:  24 NM

continental shelf:  200-m depth or to the depth of exploitation

exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: warm temperate; freezing temperatures almost unknown

Terrain: mostly rolling plains and low hills; fertile coastal lowland

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Atlantic Ocean 0 m

highest point:  Cerro Catedral 514 m

Natural resources: arable land, hydropower, minor minerals, fisheries

Land use: arable land:  7%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  77%

forests and woodland:  6%

other:  10% (1997 est.)

Irrigated land: 7,700 sq km (1997 est.)

Natural hazards: seasonally high winds (the pampero is a chilly and
occasional violent wind which blows north from the Argentine
pampas), droughts, floods; because of the absence of mountains,
which act as weather barriers, all locations are particularly
vulnerable to rapid changes in weather fronts

Environment - current issues: water pollution from meat
packing/tannery industry; inadequate solid/hazardous waste disposal

Environment - international agreements: party to:
Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic-Marine Living Resources,
Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental
Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Life
Conservation, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical
Timber 94, Wetlands

signed, but not ratified:  Marine Dumping, Nuclear Test Ban



Uruguay    People

Population: 3,360,105 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  24.39% (male 419,932; female 399,605)

15-64 years:  62.61% (male 1,038,785; female 1,064,891)

65 years and over:  13% (male 180,130; female 256,762) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 0.78% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 17.36 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 9.03 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: -0.51 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.06 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  0.98 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.7 male(s)/female

total population:  0.95 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 14.7 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  75.44 years

male:  72.11 years

female:  78.96 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 2.36 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 0.33% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 6,000 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: 150 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Uruguayan(s)

adjective:  Uruguayan

Ethnic groups: white 88%, mestizo 8%, black 4%, Amerindian,
practically nonexistent

Religions: Roman Catholic 66% (less than one-half of the adult
population attends church regularly), Protestant 2%, Jewish 1%,
nonprofessing or other 31%

Languages: Spanish, Portunol, or Brazilero (Portuguese-Spanish mix
on the Brazilian frontier)

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  97.3%

male:  96.9%

female:  97.7% (1995 est.)



Uruguay    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Oriental Republic of Uruguay

conventional short form:  Uruguay

local long form:  Republica Oriental del Uruguay

local short form:  Uruguay

former:  Banda Oriental, Cisplatine Province

Government type: constitutional republic

Capital: Montevideo

Administrative divisions: 19 departments (departamentos, singular -
departamento); Artigas, Canelones, Cerro Largo, Colonia, Durazno,
Flores, Florida, Lavalleja, Maldonado, Montevideo, Paysandu, Rio
Negro, Rivera, Rocha, Salto, San Jose, Soriano, Tacuarembo, Treinta
y Tres

Independence: 25 August 1825 (from Brazil)

National holiday: Independence Day, 25 August (1825)

Constitution: 27 November 1966, effective February 1967, suspended
27 June 1973, new constitution rejected by referendum 30 November
1980; two constitutional reforms approved by plebiscite 26 November
1989 and 7 January 1997

Legal system: based on Spanish civil law system; accepts compulsory
ICJ jurisdiction

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal and compulsory

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Jorge BATLLE (since 1
March 2000) and Vice President Luis HIERRO (since 1 March 2000);
note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
government

head of government:  President Jorge BATLLE (since 1 March 2000) and
Vice President Luis HIERRO (since 1 March 2000); note - the
president is both the chief of state and head of government

cabinet:  Council of Ministers appointed by the president with
parliamentary approval

elections:  president and vice president elected on the same ticket
by popular vote for five-year terms; election last held 31 October
1999 with run-off election on 28 November 1999 (next to be held NA
2004)

election results:  Jorge BATLLE elected president; percent of vote -
Jorge BATLLE 52% in a runoff against Tabare VAZQUEZ 44%

Legislative branch: bicameral General Assembly or Asamblea General
consists of Chamber of Senators or Camara de Senadores (30 seats;
members are elected by popular vote to serve five-year terms) and
Chamber of Representatives or Camara de Representantes (99 seats;
members are elected by popular vote to serve five-year terms)

elections:  Chamber of Senators - last held 31 October 1999 (next to
be held NA 2004); Chamber of Representatives - last held 31 October
1999 (next to be held NA 2004)

election results:  Chamber of Senators - percent of vote by party -
NA%; seats by party - Encuentro Progresista 12, Colorado Party 10,
Blanco 7, New Sector/Space Coalition 1; Chamber of Representatives -
percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party - Encuentro
Progresista 40, Colorado Party 33, Blanco 22, New Sector/Space
Coalition 4

Judicial branch: Supreme Court (judges are nominated by the
president and elected for 10-year terms by the General Assembly)

Political parties and leaders: Colorado Party [Jorge BATLLE];
National Party or Blanco [Alberto VOLONTE]; New Sector/Space
Coalition or Nuevo Espacio [Rafael MICHELINI]; Progressive Encounter
in the Broad Front or Encuentro Progresista [Tabare VAZQUEZ]

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: CCC, ECLAC, FAO, G-11,
G-77, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICRM, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO,
IMF, IMO, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO, ITU, LAES, LAIA,
Mercosur, MINURSO, MONUC, NAM (observer), OAS, OPANAL, OPCW, PCA,
RG, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNIKOM, UNMEE, UNMOGIP, UNMOT,
UNOMIG, UNTAET, UPU, WCL, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Hugo FERNANDEZ Faingold

chancery:  2715 M Street, NW, Washington, DC 20007

telephone:  [1] (202) 331-1313 through 1316

FAX:  [1] (202) 331-8142

consulate(s) general:  Chicago, Los Angeles, Miami, and New York

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Christopher C. ASHBY

embassy:  Lauro Muller 1776, Montevideo 11100

mailing address:  APO AA 34035

telephone:  [598] (2) 408-777, 203-6061

FAX:  [598] (2) 48 86 11

Flag description: nine equal horizontal stripes of white (top and
bottom) alternating with blue; there is a white square in the upper
hoist-side corner with a yellow sun bearing a human face known as
the Sun of May and 16 rays alternately triangular and wavy



Uruguay    Economy

Economy - overview: Uruguay's economy is characterized by an
export-oriented agricultural sector, a well-educated workforce,
relatively even income distribution, and high levels of social
spending. After averaging growth of 5% annually in 1996-98, in
1999-2000 the economy suffered from lower demand in Argentina and
Brazil, which together account for about half of Uruguay's exports.
Despite the severity of the trade shocks, Uruguay's financial
indicators remained more stable than those of its neighbors, a
reflection of its solid reputation among investors and its
investment-grade sovereign bond rating - one of only two in Latin
America. Challenges for the government of President Jorge BATLLE
include expanding Uruguay's trade ties beyond its MERCOSUR trade
partners and reducing the costs of public services. GDP fell by 1.1%
in 2000 and will grow by perhaps 1.5% in 2001.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $31 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: -1.1% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $9,300 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  10%

industry:  28%

services:  62% (1999)

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 4.8% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 1.5 million (1999 est.)

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture NA%, industry NA%, services
NA%

Unemployment rate: 14% (2000 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $4 billion

expenditures:  $4.6 billion, including capital expenditures of $500
million (2000 est.)

Industries: food processing, electrical machinery, transportation
equipment, petroleum products, textiles, chemicals, beverages

Industrial production growth rate: -2.1% (2000 est.)

Electricity - production: 5.704 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  3.86%

hydro:  95.44%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0.7% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 5.89 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 215 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 800 million kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: wheat, rice, barley, corn, sorghum;
livestock; fish

Exports: $2.6 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Exports - commodities: meat, rice, leather products, vehicles, dairy
products, wool, electricity

Exports - partners: MERCOSUR partners 45%, EU 20%, US 7% (1999 est.)

Imports: $3.4 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Imports - commodities: road vehicles, electrical machinery, metal
manufactures, heavy industrial machinery, crude petroleum

Imports - partners: MERCOSUR partners 43%, EU 20%, US 11% (1999 est.)

Debt - external: $8 billion (2000 est.)

Economic aid - recipient: $NA

Currency: Uruguayan peso (UYU)

Currency code: UYU

Exchange rates: Uruguayan pesos per US dollar - 12.5610 (January
2001), 12.0996 (2000), 11.3393 (1999), 10.4719 (1998), 9.4418
(1997), 7.9718 (1996)

Fiscal year: calendar year



Uruguay    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 850,000 (2000)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 300,000 (2000)

Telephone system: general assessment:  some modern facilities

domestic:  most modern facilities concentrated in Montevideo; new
nationwide microwave radio relay network

international:  satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat (Atlantic
Ocean)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 94, FM 115, shortwave 14 (seven are
inactive) (1998)

Radios: 1.97 million (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 26 (plus ten low-power repeaters for
the Montevideo station) (1997)

Televisions: 782,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .uy

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 7 (2000)

Internet users: 300,000 (2000)



Uruguay    Transportation

Railways: total:  2,073 km

standard gauge:  2,073 km 1.435-m gauge (2000)

Highways: total:  8,983 km

paved:  8,085 km

unpaved:  898 km (1999)

Waterways: 1,600 km ( used by coastal and shallow-draft river craft)

Ports and harbors: Fray Bentos, Montevideo, Nueva Palmira, Paysandu,
Punta del Este, Colonia, Piriapolis

Merchant marine: total:  2 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 7,752
GRT/5,228 DWT

ships by type:  petroleum tanker 1, roll on/roll off 1 (2000 est.)

Airports: 64 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  15

2,438 to 3,047 m:  1

1,524 to 2,437 m:  5

914 to 1,523 m:  8

under 914 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  49

1,524 to 2,437 m:  2

914 to 1,523 m:  16

under 914 m:  31 (2000 est.)



Uruguay    Military

Military branches: Army, Navy (includes Naval Air Arm, Coast Guard,
Marines), Air Force, Police (Coracero Guard, Grenadier Guard)

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  817,535 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
661,777 (2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $172 million (FY98)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 0.9% (FY98)



Uruguay    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

======================================================================

@Uzbekistan




Uzbekistan    Introduction

Background: Russia conquered Uzbekistan in the late 19th century.
Stiff resistance to the Red Army after World War I was eventually
suppressed and a socialist republic set up in 1925. During the
Soviet era, intensive production of "white gold" (cotton) and grain
led to overuse of agrochemicals and the depletion of water supplies,
which have left the land poisoned and the Aral Sea and certain
rivers half dry. Independent since 1991, the country seeks to
gradually lessen its dependence on agriculture while developing its
mineral and petroleum reserves. Current concerns include insurgency
by Islamic militants based in Tajikistan and Afghanistan, a
non-convertible currency, and the curtailment of human rights and
democratization.



Uzbekistan    Geography

Location: Central Asia, north of Afghanistan

Geographic coordinates: 41 00 N, 64 00 E

Map references: Commonwealth of Independent States

Area: total:  447,400 sq km

land:  425,400 sq km

water:  22,000 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly larger than California

Land boundaries: total:  6,221 km

border countries:  Afghanistan 137 km, Kazakhstan 2,203 km,
Kyrgyzstan 1,099 km, Tajikistan 1,161 km, Turkmenistan 1,621 km

Coastline: 0 km; note - Uzbekistan includes the southern portion of
the Aral Sea with a 420 km shoreline

Maritime claims: none (doubly landlocked)

Climate: mostly midlatitude desert, long, hot summers, mild winters;
semiarid grassland in east

Terrain: mostly flat-to-rolling sandy desert with dunes; broad, flat
intensely irrigated river valleys along course of Amu Darya,
Sirdaryo (Syr Darya), and Zarafshon; Fergana Valley in east
surrounded by mountainous Tajikistan and Kyrgyzstan; shrinking Aral
Sea in west

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Sariqarnish Kuli -12 m

highest point:  Adelunga Toghi 4,301 m

Natural resources: natural gas, petroleum, coal, gold, uranium,
silver, copper, lead and zinc, tungsten, molybdenum

Land use: arable land:  9%

permanent crops:  1%

permanent pastures:  46%

forests and woodland:  3%

other:  41% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 40,000 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: NA

Environment - current issues: drying up of the Aral Sea is resulting
in growing concentrations of chemical pesticides and natural salts;
these substances are then blown from the increasingly exposed lake
bed and contribute to desertification; water pollution from
industrial wastes and the heavy use of fertilizers and pesticides is
the cause of many human health disorders; increasing soil
salination; soil contamination from agricultural chemicals,
including DDT

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification,
Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes,
Ozone Layer Protection

signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Geography - note: along with Liechtenstein, one of the only two
doubly landlocked countries in the world



Uzbekistan    People

Population: 25,155,064 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  36.32% (male 4,646,341; female 4,489,265)

15-64 years:  59.06% (male 7,351,908; female 7,504,626)

65 years and over:  4.62% (male 466,029; female 696,895) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 1.6% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 26.1 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 8 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: -2.06 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.03 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  0.98 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.67 male(s)/female

total population:  0.98 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 71.92 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  63.81 years

male:  60.24 years

female:  67.56 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 3.06 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: less than 0.01% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: less than 100 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: less than 100 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Uzbekistani(s)

adjective:  Uzbekistani

Ethnic groups: Uzbek 80%, Russian 5.5%, Tajik 5%, Kazakh 3%,
Karakalpak 2.5%, Tatar 1.5%, other 2.5% (1996 est.)

Religions: Muslim 88% (mostly Sunnis), Eastern Orthodox 9%, other 3%

Languages: Uzbek 74.3%, Russian 14.2%, Tajik 4.4%, other 7.1%

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  99%

male:  99%

female:  99% (yearend 1996)



Uzbekistan    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Republic of Uzbekistan

conventional short form:  Uzbekistan

local long form:  Uzbekiston Respublikasi

local short form:  none

former:  Uzbek Soviet Socialist Republic

Government type: republic; effectively authoritarian presidential
rule, with little power outside the executive branch

Capital: Tashkent (Toshkent)

Administrative divisions: 12 wiloyatlar (singular - wiloyat), 1
autonomous republic* (respublikasi), and 1 city** (shahri); Andijon
Wiloyati, Bukhoro Wiloyati, Farghona Wiloyati, Jizzakh Wiloyati,
Khorazm Wiloyati (Urganch), Namangan Wiloyati, Nawoiy Wiloyati,
Qashqadaryo Wiloyati (Qarshi), Qoraqalpoghiston* (Nukus), Samarqand
Wiloyati, Sirdaryo Wiloyati (Guliston), Surkhondaryo Wiloyati
(Termiz), Toshkent Shahri**, Toshkent Wiloyati

note:  administrative divisions have the same names as their
administrative centers (exceptions have the administrative center
name following in parentheses)

Independence: 1 September 1991 (from Soviet Union)

National holiday: Independence Day, 1 September (1991)

Constitution: new constitution adopted 8 December 1992

Legal system: evolution of Soviet civil law; still lacks independent
judicial system

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Islom KARIMOV (since 24
March 1990, when he was elected president by the then Supreme Soviet)

head of government:  Prime Minister Otkir SULTONOV (since 21
December 1995)

cabinet:  Cabinet of Ministers appointed by the president with
approval of the Supreme Assembly

elections:  president elected by popular vote for a five-year term;
election last held 9 January 2000 (next to be held NA January 2005);
note - extension of President KARIMOV's original term for an
additional five years overwhelmingly approved - 99.6% of total vote
in favor - by national referendum held 27 March 1995; prime minister
and deputy ministers appointed by the president

election results:  Islom KARIMOV reelected president; percent of
vote - Islom KARIMOV 91.9%, Abdulkhafiz DZHALALOV 4.2%

Legislative branch: unicameral Supreme Assembly or Oliy Majlis (250
seats; members elected by popular vote to serve five-year terms)

elections:  last held 5 December and 19 December 1999 (next to be
held NA December 2004)

election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
NDP 48, Self-Sacrificers Party 34, Fatherland Progress Party 20,
Adolat Social Democratic Party 11, MTP 10, citizens' groups 16,
local government 110, vacant 1

note:  not all seats in the last Supreme Assembly election were
contested; all parties in the Supreme Assembly support President
KARIMOV

Judicial branch: Supreme Court (judges are nominated by the
president and confirmed by the Supreme Assembly)

Political parties and leaders: Adolat (Justice) Social Democratic
Party [Anwar JURABAYEV, first secretary]; Democratic National
Rebirth Party (Milly Tiklanish) or MTP [Aziz KAYUMOV, chairman];
Fatherland Progress Party [Anwar Z. YOLDASHEV]; People's Democratic
Party or NDP (formerly Communist Party) [Abdulkhafiz JALOLOV, first
secretary]; Self-Sacrificers Party or Fidokorlar National Democratic
Party [Ahtam TURSUNOV, first secretary]

Political pressure groups and leaders: Birlik (Unity) Movement
[Abdurakhim PULAT, chairman]; Erk (Freedom) Democratic Party
[Muhammad SOLIH, chairman] was banned 9 December 1992; Human Rights
Society of Uzbekistan [Abdumanob PULAT, chairman]; Independent Human
Rights Society of Uzbekistan [Mikhail ARDZINOV, chairman]

International organization participation: AsDB, CCC, CIS, EAPC,
EBRD, ECE, ECO, ESCAP, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICRM, IDA, IFC, IFRCS, ILO,
IMF, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, ISO, ITU, NAM, OIC, OPCW, OSCE, PFP,
UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO
(observer)

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Shavkat HAMRAKULOV

chancery:  1746 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20036

telephone:  [1] (202) 887-5300

FAX:  [1] (202) 293-6804

consulate(s) general:  New York

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
John Edward HERBST

embassy:  82 Chilanzarskaya, Tashkent 700115

mailing address:  use embassy street address; US Embassy Tashkent,
Department of State, Washington, DC 20521-7110

telephone:  [998] (71) 120-5444

FAX:  [998] (71) 120-6335

Flag description: three equal horizontal bands of blue (top), white,
and green separated by red fimbriations with a white crescent moon
and 12 white stars in the upper hoist-side quadrant



Uzbekistan    Economy

Economy - overview: Uzbekistan is a dry, landlocked country of which
10% consists of intensely cultivated, irrigated river valleys. More
than 60% of its population lives in densely populated rural
communities. Uzbekistan is now the world's third largest cotton
exporter, a large producer of gold and oil, and a regionally
significant producer of chemicals and machinery. Following
independence in December 1991, the government sought to prop up its
Soviet-style command economy with subsidies and tight controls on
production and prices. Faced with high rates of inflation, however,
the government began to reform in mid-1994, by introducing tighter
monetary policies, expanding privatization, slightly reducing the
role of the state in the economy, and improving the environment for
foreign investors. The state continues to be a dominating influence
in the economy and has so far failed to bring about much-needed
structural changes. The IMF suspended Uzbekistan's $185 million
standby arrangement in late 1996 because of governmental steps that
made impossible fulfillment of Fund conditions. Uzbekistan has
responded to the negative external conditions generated by the Asian
and Russian financial crises by tightening export and currency
controls within its already largely closed economy. Economic
policies that have repelled foreign investment are a major factor in
the economy's stagnation. A growing debt burden, persistent
inflation, and a poor business climate led to stagnant growth in
2000, with little improvement predicted for 2001.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $60 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 2.1% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $2,400 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  28%

industry:  21%

services:  51% (1999 est.)

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:
3.1%

highest 10%:  25.2% (1993)

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 40% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 11.9 million (1998 est.)

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture 44%, industry 20%, services
36% (1995)

Unemployment rate: 10% plus another 20% underemployed (1999 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $4 billion

expenditures:  $4.1 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
(1999 est.)

Industries: textiles, food processing, machine building, metallurgy,
natural gas, chemicals

Industrial production growth rate: 6.4% (2000 est.)

Electricity - production: 42.876 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  86.4%

hydro:  13.6%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 43.455 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 3.92 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 7.5 billion kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: cotton, vegetables, fruits, grain; livestock

Exports: $2.9 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Exports - commodities: cotton, gold, natural gas, mineral
fertilizers, ferrous metals, textiles, food products, automobiles

Exports - partners: Russia 13%, Switzerland 10%, UK 10%, Belgium 3%,
Kazakhstan 4%, Tajikistan 4% (1999)

Imports: $2.6 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Imports - commodities: machinery and equipment, chemicals, metals;
foodstuffs

Imports - partners: Russia 14%, South Korea 14%, Germany 11%, US 8%,
Turkey 4%, Kazakhstan 4% (1999)

Debt - external: $3.3 billion (1999 est.)

Economic aid - recipient: $276.6 million (1995)

Currency: Uzbekistani sum (UZS)

Currency code: UZS

Exchange rates: Uzbekistani sums per US dollar - 325.0 (January
2001), 141.4 (January 2000), 111.9 (February 1999), 110.95 (December
1998), 75.8 (September 1997), 41.1 (1996)

Fiscal year: calendar year



Uzbekistan    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 1.98 million (1999)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 26,000 (1998)

Telephone system: general assessment:  antiquated and inadequate; in
serious need of modernization

domestic:  the domestic telephone system is being expanded and
technologically improved, particularly in Tashkent and Samarqand,
under contracts with prominent companies in industrialized
countries; moreover, by 1998, six cellular networks had been placed
in operation - four of the GSM type (Global System for Mobile
Communication), one D-AMPS type (Digital Advanced Mobile Phone
System), and one AMPS type (Advanced Mobile Phone System)

international:  linked by landline or microwave radio relay with CIS
member states and to other countries by leased connection via the
Moscow international gateway switch; after the completion of the
Uzbek link to the Trans-Asia-Europe (TAE) fiber-optic cable,
Uzbekistan will be independent of Russian facilities for
international communications; Inmarsat also provides an
international connection, albeit an expensive one; satellite earth
stations - NA (1998)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 20, FM 7, shortwave 10 (1998)

Radios: 10.8 million (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 4 (plus two repeaters that relay
Russian, Kazakh, Kyrgyz, and Tadzhik programs) (1997)

Televisions: 6.4 million (1997)

Internet country code: .uz

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 42 (2000)

Internet users: 7,500 (2000)



Uzbekistan    Transportation

Railways: total:  3,380 km in common carrier service; does not
include industrial lines

broad gauge:  3,380 km 1.520-m gauge (300 km electrified) (1993)

Highways: total:  81,600 km

paved:  71,237 km (these roads are said to be hard-surfaced, and
include, in addition to conventionally paved roads, some that are
surfaced with gravel or other coarse aggregate, making them
trafficable in all weather)

unpaved:  10,363 km (these roads are made of unstabilized earth and
are difficult to negotiate in wet weather) (1996)

Waterways: 1,100 km (1990)

Pipelines: crude oil 250 km; petroleum products 40 km; natural gas
810 km (1992)

Ports and harbors: Termiz (Amu Darya river)

Airports: 267 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  10

over 3,047 m:  3

2,438 to 3,047 m:  5

under 914 m:  2 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  257

over 3,047 m:  3

2,438 to 3,047 m:  8

1,524 to 2,437 m:  11

914 to 1,523 m:  13

under 914 m:  222



Uzbekistan    Military

Military branches: Army, Air and Air Defense Forces, Security Forces
(internal and border troops), National Guard

Military manpower - military age: 18 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  6,550,587 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
5,318,418 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  274,602
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $200 million (FY97)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 2% (FY97)



Uzbekistan    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: occasional target of Islamic insurgents
based in Tajikistan and Afghanistan

Illicit drugs: limited illicit cultivation of cannabis and very
small amounts of opium poppy, mostly for domestic consumption,
almost entirely eradicated by an effective government eradication
program; increasingly used as transshipment point for illicit drugs
from Afghanistan to Russia and Western Europe and for acetic
anhydride destined for Afghanistan

======================================================================

@Vanuatu




Vanuatu    Introduction

Background: The British and French who settled the New Hebrides in
the 19th century, agreed in 1906 to an Anglo-French Condominium,
which administered the islands until independence in 1980.



Vanuatu    Geography

Location: Oceania, group of islands in the South Pacific Ocean,
about three-quarters of the way from Hawaii to Australia

Geographic coordinates: 16 00 S, 167 00 E

Map references: Oceania

Area: total:  12,200 sq km

land:  12,200 sq km

water:  0 sq km

note:  includes more than 80 islands

Area - comparative: slightly larger than Connecticut

Land boundaries: 0 km

Coastline: 2,528 km

Maritime claims: measured from claimed archipelagic baselines

contiguous zone:  24 NM

continental shelf:  200 NM or to the edge of the continental margin

exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: tropical; moderated by southeast trade winds

Terrain: mostly mountains of volcanic origin; narrow coastal plains

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Pacific Ocean 0 m

highest point:  Tabwemasana 1,877 m

Natural resources: manganese, hardwood forests, fish

Land use: arable land:  2%

permanent crops:  10%

permanent pastures:  2%

forests and woodland:  75%

other:  11% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: NA sq km

Natural hazards: tropical cyclones or typhoons (January to April);
volcanism causes minor earthquakes

Environment - current issues: a majority of the population does not
have access to a potable and reliable supply of water; deforestation

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species, Law of the Sea,
Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical
Timber 94

signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements



Vanuatu    People

Population: 192,910 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  36.35% (male 35,822; female 34,299)

15-64 years:  60.43% (male 59,764; female 56,808)

65 years and over:  3.22% (male 3,348; female 2,869) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 1.7% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 25.4 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 8.38 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  1.17 male(s)/female

total population:  1.05 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 61.05 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  60.95 years

male:  59.58 years

female:  62.39 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 3.19 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: NA%

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: NA

HIV/AIDS - deaths: NA

Nationality: noun:  Ni-Vanuatu (singular and plural)

adjective:  Ni-Vanuatu

Ethnic groups: indigenous Melanesian 94%, French 4%, Vietnamese,
Chinese, Pacific Islanders

Religions: Presbyterian 36.7%, Anglican 15%, Roman Catholic 15%,
indigenous beliefs 7.6%, Seventh-Day Adventist 6.2%, Church of
Christ 3.8%, other 15.7%

Languages: English (official), French (official), pidgin (known as
Bislama or Bichelama)

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  53%

male:  57%

female:  48% (1979 est.)



Vanuatu    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Republic of Vanuatu

conventional short form:  Vanuatu

former:  New Hebrides

Government type: republic

Capital: Port-Vila

Administrative divisions: 6 provinces; Malampa, Penama, Sanma,
Shefa, Tafea, Torba

Independence: 30 July 1980 (from France and UK)

National holiday: Independence Day, 30 July (1980)

Constitution: 30 July 1980

Legal system: unified system being created from former dual French
and British systems

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Father John BANI (since
25 March 1999)

head of government:  Prime Minister Edward NATAPEI (since 16 April
2001); Deputy Prime Minister Serge VOHOR (since 16 April 2001)

cabinet:  Council of Ministers appointed by the prime minister,
responsible to Parliament

elections:  president elected for a four-year term by an electoral
college consisting of Parliament and the presidents of the regional
councils for a five-year term; election for president last held 25
March 1999 (next to be held NA 2003); following legislative
elections, the leader of the majority party or majority coalition is
usually elected prime minister by Parliament from among its members;
election for prime minister last held 16 April 2001 (next to be held
NA 2002)

election results:  Father John BANI elected president; percent of
electoral college vote - NA%; Edward NATAPEI elected prime minister
by Parliament with a total of 27 out of 52 votes

note:  the government of Prime Minister Barak SOPE was ousted in a
no confidence vote on 14 April 2001 and Edward NATAPEI was elected
the new prime minister by Parliament

Legislative branch: unicameral Parliament (52 seats; members elected
by popular vote to serve four-year terms)

elections:  last held 6 March 1998 (next to be held NA 2002)

election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
VP 18, UMP 12, NUP 11, other and independent 11; note - political
party associations are fluid; there have been four changes of
government since the November 1995 elections

note:  the National Council of Chiefs advises on matters of custom
and land

Judicial branch: Supreme Court (chief justice is appointed by the
president after consultation with the prime minister and the leader
of the opposition, three other justices are appointed by the
president on the advice of the Judicial Service Commission)

Political parties and leaders: Melanesian Progressive Party or MPP
[Barak SOPE]; National United Party or NUP [Willie TITONGOA]; Union
of Moderate Parties or UMP [Serge VOHOR]; Vanuaaku Party (Our Land
Party) or VP [Edward NATAPEI]; Vanuatu Republican Party [Maxime
Carlot KORMAN]

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: ACCT, ACP, AsDB, C, ESCAP,
FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IFC, IFRCS, IMF, IMO,
Intelsat (nonsignatory user), IOC, ITU, NAM, Sparteca, SPC, SPF, UN,
UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNMIBH, UNTAET, UPU, WFTU, WHO, WMO, WTrO
(observer)

Diplomatic representation in the US: Vanuatu does not have an
embassy in the US, it does, however, have a Permanent Mission to the
UN

Diplomatic representation from the US: the US does not have an
embassy in Vanuatu; the ambassador to Papua New Guinea is accredited
to Vanuatu

Flag description: two equal horizontal bands of red (top) and green
with a black isosceles triangle (based on the hoist side) all
separated by a black-edged yellow stripe in the shape of a
horizontal Y (the two points of the Y face the hoist side and
enclose the triangle); centered in the triangle is a boar's tusk
encircling two crossed namele leaves, all in yellow



Vanuatu    Economy

Economy - overview: The economy is based primarily on subsistence or
small-scale agriculture which provides a living for 65% of the
population. Fishing, offshore financial services, and tourism, with
about 50,000 visitors in 1997, are other mainstays of the economy.
Mineral deposits are negligible; the country has no known petroleum
deposits. A small light industry sector caters to the local market.
Tax revenues come mainly from import duties. Economic development is
hindered by dependence on relatively few commodity exports,
vulnerability to natural disasters, and long distances from main
markets and between constituent islands. The most recent natural
disaster, a severe earthquake in November 1999 followed by a
tsunami, caused extensive damage to the northern island of Pentecote
and left thousands homeless. GDP growth has risen less than 3% on
average in the 1990s. In response to foreign concerns, the
government is moving to tighten regulation of its offshore financial
center.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $245 million (1999 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: -2.5% (1999 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $1,300 (1999 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  20%

industry:  9%

services:  71% (1999 est.)

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 2.5% (1999 est.)

Labor force: NA

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture 65%, services 32%, industry
3% (1995 est.)

Unemployment rate: NA%

Budget: revenues:  $94.4 million

expenditures:  $99.8 million, including capital expenditures of
$30.4 million (1996 est.)

Industries: food and fish freezing, wood processing, meat canning

Industrial production growth rate: 1% (1997 est.)

Electricity - production: 35 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  100%

hydro:  0%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 32.6 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: copra, coconuts, cocoa, coffee, taro, yams,
coconuts, fruits, vegetables; fish, beef

Exports: $25.3 million (f.o.b., 1999)

Exports - commodities: copra, kava, beef, cocoa, timber, coffee

Exports - partners: Japan 32%, Germany 14%, Spain 8%, New Caledonia
7%, Australia 2% (1997 est.)

Imports: $77.2 million (f.o.b., 1999)

Imports - commodities: machinery and equipment, foodstuffs, fuels

Imports - partners: Japan 52%, Australia 20%, New Caledonia,
Singapore, New Zealand, France, Fiji (1997 est.)

Debt - external: $48 million (1997 est.)

Economic aid - recipient: $45.8 million (1995)

Currency: vatu (VUV)

Currency code: VUV

Exchange rates: vatu per US dollar - 143.95 (December 2000), 137.82
(2000), 129.08 (1999), 127.52 (1998), 115.87 (1997), 111.72 (1996)

Fiscal year: calendar year



Vanuatu    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 4,000 (1996)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 154 (1996)

Telephone system: general assessment:  NA

domestic:  NA

international:  satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (Pacific Ocean)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 2, FM 2, shortwave 1 (1998)

Radios: 62,000 (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 1 (1997)

Televisions: 2,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .vu

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 1 (2000)

Internet users: 3,000 (2000)



Vanuatu    Transportation

Railways: 0 km

Highways: total:  1,070 km

paved:  256 km

unpaved:  814 km (1996)

Waterways: none

Ports and harbors: Forari, Port-Vila, Santo (Espiritu Santo)

Merchant marine: total:  54 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
1,067,384 GRT/1,330,543 DWT

ships by type:  bulk 23, cargo 7, chemical tanker 3, combination
bulk 2, container 1, liquefied gas 3, petroleum tanker 2,
refrigerated cargo 7, vehicle carrier 6

note:  includes some foreign-owned ships registered here as a flag
of convenience: Australia 2, Canada 1, China 1, France 1, Greece 1,
Hong Kong 1, Japan 22, Netherlands 1, Norway 1, Switzerland 1, US 4
(2000 est.)

Airports: 32 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  2

2,438 to 3,047 m:  1

914 to 1,523 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  30

1,524 to 2,437 m:  2

914 to 1,523 m:  11

under 914 m:  17 (2000 est.)



Vanuatu    Military

Military branches: no regular military forces; Vanuatu Police Force
(VPF; includes the paramilitary Vanuatu Mobile Force or VMF)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $NA

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: NA%



Vanuatu    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: claims Matthew and Hunter Islands east of
New Caledonia

======================================================================

@Venezuela




Venezuela    Introduction

Background: Venezuela was one of the three countries that emerged
from the collapse of Gran Colombia in 1830 (the others being
Colombia and Ecuador). For most of the first half of the 20th
century, Venezuela was ruled by generally benevolent military
strongmen, who promoted the oil industry and allowed for some social
reforms. Democratically elected governments have held sway since
1959. Current concerns include: drug-related conflicts along the
Colombian border, increasing internal drug consumption,
overdependence on the petroleum industry with its price
fluctuations, and irresponsible mining operations that are
endangering the rain forest and indigenous peoples.



Venezuela    Geography

Location: Northern South America, bordering the Caribbean Sea and
the North Atlantic Ocean, between Colombia and Guyana

Geographic coordinates: 8 00 N, 66 00 W

Map references: South America, Central America and the Caribbean

Area: total:  912,050 sq km

land:  882,050 sq km

water:  30,000 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly more than twice the size of California

Land boundaries: total:  4,993 km

border countries:  Brazil 2,200 km, Colombia 2,050 km, Guyana 743 km

Coastline: 2,800 km

Maritime claims: contiguous zone:  15 NM

continental shelf:  200-m depth or to the depth of exploitation

exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: tropical; hot, humid; more moderate in highlands

Terrain: Andes Mountains and Maracaibo Lowlands in northwest;
central plains (llanos); Guiana Highlands in southeast

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Caribbean Sea 0 m

highest point:  Pico Bolivar (La Columna) 5,007 m

Natural resources: petroleum, natural gas, iron ore, gold, bauxite,
other minerals, hydropower, diamonds

Land use: arable land:  4%

permanent crops:  1%

permanent pastures:  20%

forests and woodland:  34%

other:  41% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 1,900 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: subject to floods, rockslides, mudslides; periodic
droughts

Environment - current issues: sewage pollution of Lago de Valencia;
oil and urban pollution of Lago de Maracaibo; deforestation; soil
degradation; urban and industrial pollution, especially along the
Caribbean coast; threat to the rainforest ecosystem from
irresponsible mining operations

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Antarctic Treaty,
Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species,
Hazardous Wastes, Marine Life Conservation, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone
Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical
Timber 94, Wetlands

signed, but not ratified:  Marine Dumping

Geography - note: on major sea and air routes linking North and
South America



Venezuela    People

Population: 23,916,810 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  32.11% (male 3,962,517; female 3,716,880)

15-64 years:  63.17% (male 7,581,589; female 7,526,467)

65 years and over:  4.72% (male 515,687; female 613,670) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 1.56% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 20.65 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 4.92 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: -0.15 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.08 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.07 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1.01 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.84 male(s)/female

total population:  1.02 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 25.37 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  73.31 years

male:  70.29 years

female:  76.56 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 2.46 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 0.49% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 62,000 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: 2,000 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Venezuelan(s)

adjective:  Venezuelan

Ethnic groups: Spanish, Italian, Portuguese, Arab, German, African,
indigenous people

Religions: nominally Roman Catholic 96%, Protestant 2%, other 2%

Languages: Spanish (official), numerous indigenous dialects

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  91.1%

male:  91.8%

female:  90.3% (1995 est.)



Venezuela    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Bolivarian Republic of
Venezuela

conventional short form:  Venezuela

local long form:  Republica Bolivariana de Venezuela

local short form:  Venezuela

Government type: federal republic

Capital: Caracas

Administrative divisions: 23 states (estados, singular - estado),1
federal district* (distrito federal), and 1 federal dependency**
(dependencia federal); Amazonas, Anzoategui, Apure, Aragua, Barinas,
Bolivar, Carabobo, Cojedes, Delta Amacuro, Dependencias Federales**,
Distrito Federal*, Falcon, Guarico, Lara, Merida, Miranda, Monagas,
Nueva Esparta, Portuguesa, Sucre, Tachira, Trujillo, Vargas,
Yaracuy, Zulia

note:  the federal dependency consists of 11 federally controlled
island groups with a total of 72 individual islands

Independence: 5 July 1811 (from Spain)

National holiday: Independence Day, 5 July (1811)

Constitution: 30 December 1999

Legal system: based on organic laws as of July 1999; open,
adversarial court system; has not accepted compulsory ICJ
jurisdiction

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Hugo CHAVEZ Frias
(since 3 February 1999); Vice President Adina BASTIDAS Castillo;
note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
government

head of government:  President Hugo CHAVEZ Frias (since 3 February
1999); Vice President Adina BASTIDAS Castillo; note - the president
is both the chief of state and head of government

cabinet:  Council of Ministers appointed by the president

elections:  president elected by popular vote for a six-year term;
election last held 30 July 2000 (next to be held NA 2006)

election results:  Hugo CHAVEZ Frias elected president; percent of
vote - 60%

note:  government coalition - Patriotic Pole or Polo Patriotico
consists of MVR, MAS, and PPT

Legislative branch: unicameral National Assembly or Asamblea
Nacional; 165 seats; members elected by popular vote to serve
five-year terms; three seats reserved for the indigenous peoples of
Venezuela

elections:  last held 30 July 2000 (next to be held NA 2005)

election results:  Pro-government: percent of vote by party - NA%;
seats by party - MVR 92, MAS 6, indigenous 3, other parties 7;
Opposition: percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party - AD 33,
COPEI 6, Justice First 5, other parties 13

Judicial branch: Supreme Tribunal of Justice or Tribuna Suprema de
Justicia (magistrates are elected by the National Assembly for a
single 12-year term)

Political parties and leaders: Brave Peoples Alliance or ABP [leader
NA]; Democratic Action or AD [Henry RAMOS Allup]; Fifth Republic
Movement or MVR [leader Luis MIQUILENA]; Homeland for All or PPT
[Pablo MEDINA]; Justice First [leader NA]; Movement Toward Socialism
or MAS [Felipe MUJICA]; National Convergence or Convergencia [Dr.
Rafael CALDERA Rodriguez]; Radical Cause or La Causa R [Andres
VELASQUEZ]; Social Christian Party or COPEI [Jose CURIEL]; Venezuela
Project or PV [Henrique SALAS Ronier]

Political pressure groups and leaders: FEDECAMARAS, a conservative
business group; VECINOS groups; Venezuelan Confederation of Workers
or CTV (labor organization dominated by the Democratic Action)

International organization participation: CAN, Caricom (observer),
CCC, CDB, ECLAC, FAO, G- 3, G-11, G-15, G-19, G-24, G-77, IADB,
IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, ICRM, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF,
IMO, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO, ITU, LAES, LAIA, NAM, OAS,
OPANAL, OPCW, OPEC, PCA, RG, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO,
UNIKOM, UNU, UPU, WCL, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Alfredo TORO Hardy

chancery:  1099 30th Street NW, Washington, DC 20007

telephone:  [1] (202) 342-2214

FAX:  [1] (202) 342-6820

consulate(s) general:  Boston, Chicago, Houston, Miami, New Orleans,
New York, San Francisco, and San Juan (Puerto Rico)

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Donna J. HRINAK

embassy:  Calle F con Calle Suapure, Urbanizacion Colinas de Valle
Arriba, Caracas 1080

mailing address:  P. O. Box 62291, Caracas 1060-A; APO AA 34037

telephone:  [58] (2) 975-6411

FAX:  [58] (2) 975-6710

Flag description: three equal horizontal bands of yellow (top),
blue, and red with the coat of arms on the hoist side of the yellow
band and an arc of seven white five-pointed stars centered in the
blue band



Venezuela    Economy

Economy - overview: The petroleum sector dominates the economy,
accounting for roughly a third of GDP, around 80% of export
earnings, and more than half of government operating revenues.
Venezuelan officials estimate that GDP grew by 3.2% in 2000. A
strong rebound in international oil prices fueled the recovery from
the steep recession in 1999. Nevertheless, a weak nonoil sector and
capital flight undercut the recovery. The bolivar is widely believed
to be overvalued by as much as 50%. The government is still
rebuilding after massive flooding and landslides in December 1999
caused an estimated $15 billion to $20 billion in damage.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $146.2 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 3.2% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $6,200 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  5%

industry:  24%

services:  71% (1999 est.)

Population below poverty line: 67% (1997 est.)

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:
1.5%

highest 10%:  35.6% (1995)

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 13% (2000)

Labor force: 9.9 million (1999)

Labor force - by occupation: services 64%, industry 23%, agriculture
13% (1997 est.)

Unemployment rate: 14% (2000 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $26.4 billion

expenditures:  $27 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
(2000 est.)

Industries: petroleum, iron ore mining, construction materials, food
processing, textiles, steel, aluminum, motor vehicle assembly

Industrial production growth rate: NA

Electricity - production: 81.215 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  32.16%

hydro:  67.84%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 75.53 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: corn, sorghum, sugarcane, rice, bananas,
vegetables, coffee; beef, pork, milk, eggs; fish

Exports: $32.8 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Exports - commodities: petroleum, bauxite and aluminum, steel,
chemicals, agricultural products, basic manufactures

Exports - partners: US and Puerto Rico 57%, Colombia, Brazil, Japan,
Germany, Netherlands, Italy (1999)

Imports: $14.7 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Imports - commodities: raw materials, machinery and equipment,
transport equipment, construction materials

Imports - partners: US 53%, Japan, Colombia, Italy, Germany, France,
Brazil, Canada (1999)

Debt - external: $34 billion (2000)

Economic aid - recipient: $35 million with more assistance likely as
a result of flooding (1999)

Currency: bolivar (VEB)

Currency code: VEB

Exchange rates: bolivares per US dollar - 699.700 (January 2001),
679.960 (2000), 605.717 (1999), 547.556 (1998), 488.635 (1997),
417.333 (1996)

Fiscal year: calendar year



Venezuela    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 2,600,000.00; however, 3,500,000
were installed (1998)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 2 million (1998)

Telephone system: general assessment:  modern and expanding

domestic:  domestic satellite system with 3 earth stations; recent
substantial improvement in telephone service in rural areas;
substantial increase in digitalization of exchanges and trunk lines;
installation of a national interurban fiber-optic network capable of
digital multimedia services

international:  3 submarine coaxial cables; satellite earth stations
- 1 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean) and 1 PanAmSat; participating with
Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, and Bolivia in the construction of an
international fiber-optic network

Radio broadcast stations: AM 201, FM NA (20 in Caracas), shortwave
11 (1998)

Radios: 10.75 million (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 66 (plus 45 repeaters) (1997)

Televisions: 4.1 million (1997)

Internet country code: .ve

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 16 (2000)

Internet users: 400,000 (2000)



Venezuela    Transportation

Railways: total:  584 km (248 km privately owned)

standard gauge:  584 km 1.435-m gauge

Highways: total:  96,155 km

paved:  32,308 km

unpaved:  63,847 km (1997 est.)

Waterways: 7,100 km

note:  Rio Orinoco and Lago de Maracaibo accept oceangoing vessels

Pipelines: crude oil 6,370 km; petroleum products 480 km; natural
gas 4,010 km

Ports and harbors: Amuay, Bajo Grande, El Tablazo, La Guaira, La
Salina, Maracaibo, Matanzas, Palua, Puerto Cabello, Puerto la Cruz,
Puerto Ordaz, Puerto Sucre, Punta Cardon

Merchant marine: total:  36 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
490,160 GRT/897,694 DWT

ships by type:  bulk 7, cargo 10, liquefied gas 2, passenger/cargo
1, petroleum tanker 7, roll on/roll off 8, short-sea passenger 1
(2000 est.)

Airports: 371 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  124

over 3,047 m:  4

2,438 to 3,047 m:  12

1,524 to 2,437 m:  32

914 to 1,523 m:  59

under 914 m:  17 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  247

1,524 to 2,437 m:  10

914 to 1,523 m:  97

under 914 m:  140 (2000 est.)

Heliports: 1 (2000 est.)



Venezuela    Military

Military branches: National Armed Forces (Fuerzas Armadas Nacionales
or FAN) includes Ground Forces or Army (Fuerzas Terrestres or
Ejercito), Naval Forces (Fuerzas Navales or Armada), Air Force
(Fuerzas Aereas or Aviacion), Armed Forces of Cooperation or
National Guard (Fuerzas Armadas de Cooperacion or Guardia Nacional)

Military manpower - military age: 18 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  6,524,809 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
4,701,062 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  246,185
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $934 million (FY99)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 0.9% (FY99)



Venezuela    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: claims all of Guyana west of the Essequibo
(river); maritime boundary dispute with Colombia in the Gulf of
Venezuela

Illicit drugs: illicit producer of opium for the international drug
trade on a small scale; however, large quantities of cocaine,
heroin, and marijuana transit the country from Colombia bound for US
and Europe; important money-laundering center; active eradication
program primarily targeting opium; increasing signs of drug-related
activities by Colombian insurgents on border

======================================================================

@Vietnam




Vietnam    Introduction

Background: France occupied all of Vietnam by 1884. Independence was
declared after World War II, but the French continued to rule until
1954 when they were defeated by communist forces under Ho Chi MINH,
who took control of the north. US economic and military aid to South
Vietnam grew through the 1960s in an attempt to bolster the
government, but US armed forces were withdrawn following a
cease-fire agreement in 1973. Two years later North Vietnamese
forces overran the south. Economic reconstruction of the reunited
country has proven difficult as aging Communist Party leaders have
only grudgingly initiated reforms necessary for a free market.



Vietnam    Geography

Location: Southeastern Asia, bordering the Gulf of Thailand, Gulf of
Tonkin, and South China Sea, alongside China, Laos, and Cambodia

Geographic coordinates: 16 00 N, 106 00 E

Map references: Southeast Asia

Area: total:  329,560 sq km

land:  325,360 sq km

water:  4,200 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly larger than New Mexico

Land boundaries: total:  4,639 km

border countries:  Cambodia 1,228 km, China 1,281 km, Laos 2,130 km

Coastline: 3,444 km (excludes islands)

Maritime claims: contiguous zone:  24 NM

continental shelf:  200 NM or to the edge of the continental margin

exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: tropical in south; monsoonal in north with hot, rainy
season (mid-May to mid-September) and warm, dry season (mid-October
to mid-March)

Terrain: low, flat delta in south and north; central highlands;
hilly, mountainous in far north and northwest

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  South China Sea 0 m

highest point:  Ngoc Linh 3,143 m

Natural resources: phosphates, coal, manganese, bauxite, chromate,
offshore oil and gas deposits, forests, hydropower

Land use: arable land:  17%

permanent crops:  4%

permanent pastures:  1%

forests and woodland:  30%

other:  48% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 18,600 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: occasional typhoons (May to January) with extensive
flooding

Environment - current issues: logging and slash-and-burn
agricultural practices contribute to deforestation and soil
degradation; water pollution and overfishing threaten marine life
populations; groundwater contamination limits potable water supply;
growing urban industrialization and population migration are rapidly
degrading environment in Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh City

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental
Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer
Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands

signed, but not ratified:  Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Nuclear
Test Ban



Vietnam    People

Population: 79,939,014 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  32.13% (male 13,266,585; female
12,415,384)

15-64 years:  62.44% (male 24,357,343; female 25,556,187)

65 years and over:  5.43% (male 1,722,094; female 2,621,421) (2001
est.)

Population growth rate: 1.45% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 21.23 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 6.22 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: -0.49 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.07 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.07 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  0.95 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.66 male(s)/female

total population:  0.97 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 30.24 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  69.56 years

male:  67.12 years

female:  72.19 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 2.49 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 0.24% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 100,000 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: 2,500 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Vietnamese (singular and plural)

adjective:  Vietnamese

Ethnic groups: Vietnamese 85%-90%, Chinese, Hmong, Thai, Khmer,
Cham, mountain groups

Religions: Buddhist, Hoa Hao, Cao Dai, Christian (predominantly
Roman Catholic, some Protestant), indigenous beliefs, Muslim

Languages: Vietnamese (official), English (increasingly favored as a
second language), some French, Chinese, and Khmer; mountain area
languages (Mon-Khmer and Malayo-Polynesian)

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  93.7%

male:  96.5%

female:  91.2% (1995 est.)



Vietnam    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Socialist Republic of Vietnam

conventional short form:  Vietnam

local long form:  Cong Hoa Xa Hoi Chu Nghia Viet Nam

local short form:  Viet Nam

abbreviation:  SRV

Government type: Communist state

Capital: Hanoi

Administrative divisions: 58 provinces (tinh, singular and plural),
3 municipalities* (thu do, singular and plural); An Giang, Bac
Giang, Bac Kan, Bac Lieu, Bac Ninh, Ba Ria-Vung Tau, Ben Tre, Binh
Dinh, Binh Duong, Binh Phuoc, Binh Thuan, Ca Mau, Can Tho, Cao Bang,
Dac Lak, Da Nang, Dong Nai, Dong Thap, Gia Lai, Ha Giang, Hai Duong,
Hai Phong*, Ha Nam, Ha Noi*, Ha Tay, Ha Tinh, Hoa Binh, Ho Chi
Minh*, Hung Yen, Khanh Hoa, Kien Giang, Kon Tum, Lai Chau, Lam Dong,
Lang Son, Lao Cai, Long An, Nam Dinh, Nghe An, Ninh Binh, Ninh
Thuan, Phu Tho, Phu Yen, Quang Binh, Quang Nam, Quang Ngai, Quang
Ninh, Quang Tri, Soc Trang, Son La, Tay Ninh, Thai Binh, Thai
Nguyen, Thanh Hoa, Thua Thien-Hue, Tien Giang, Tra Vinh, Tuyen
Quang, Vinh Long, Vinh Phuc, Yen Bai

Independence: 2 September 1945 (from France)

National holiday: Independence Day, 2 September (1945)

Constitution: 15 April 1992

Legal system: based on communist legal theory and French civil law
system

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Tran Duc LUONG (since
24 September 1997) and Vice President Nguyen Thi BINH (since NA
October 1992)

head of government:  Prime Minister Phan Van KHAI (since 25
September 1997); First Deputy Prime Minister Nguyen Tan DUNG (since
29 September 1997); Deputy Prime Ministers Nguyen Cong TAN (since 29
September 1997), Nguyen Manh CAM (since 29 September 1997), and Pham
Gia KHIEM (since 29 September 1997)

cabinet:  Cabinet appointed by the president on the proposal of the
prime minister and ratification of the National Assembly

elections:  president elected by the National Assembly from among
its members for a five-year term; election last held 25 September
1997 (next to be held when National Assembly meets following
legislative elections in NA 2002); prime minister appointed by the
president from among the members of the National Assembly; deputy
prime ministers appointed by the prime minister

election results:  Tran Duc LUONG elected president; percent of
National Assembly vote - NA%

Legislative branch: unicameral National Assembly or Quoc-Hoi (450
seats; members elected by popular vote to serve five-year terms)

elections:  last held 20 July 1997 (next to be held NA 2002)

election results:  percent of vote by party - CPV 92%, other 8% (the
8% are not CPV members but are approved by the CPV to stand for
election); seats by party - CPV or CPV-approved 450

Judicial branch: Supreme People's Court (chief justice is elected
for a five-year term by the National Assembly on the recommendation
of the president)

Political parties and leaders: only party - Communist Party of
Vietnam or CPV [Le Kha PHIEU, general secretary]

Political pressure groups and leaders: none

International organization participation: ACCT, APEC, ARF, AsDB,
ASEAN, CCC, ESCAP, FAO, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICRM, IDA, IFAD,
IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM
(observer), ISO, ITU, NAM, OPCW, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU,
WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO (observer)

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:
Ambassador-designate Nguyen Tam CHIEN

chancery:  1233 20th Street NW, Washington, DC 20036, Suite 400

telephone:  [1] (202) 861-0737

FAX:  [1] (202) 861-0917

consulate(s) general:  San Francisco

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Douglas B. "Pete" PETERSON

embassy:  7 Lang Ha Road, Ba Dinh District, Hanoi

mailing address:  PSC 461, Box 400, FPO AP 96521-0002

telephone:  [84] (4) 8431500

FAX:  [84] (4) 8351510

consulate(s) general:  Ho Chi Minh City

Flag description: red with a large yellow five-pointed star in the
center



Vietnam    Economy

Economy - overview: Vietnam is a poor, densely populated country
that has had to recover from the ravages of war, the loss of
financial support from the old Soviet Bloc, and the rigidities of a
centrally planned economy. Substantial progress was achieved from
1986 to 1996 in moving forward from an extremely low starting point
- growth averaged around 9% per year from 1993 to 1997. The 1997
Asian financial crisis highlighted the problems existing in the
Vietnamese economy but, rather than prompting reform, reaffirmed the
government's belief that shifting to a market oriented economy leads
to disaster. GDP growth of 8.5% in 1997 fell to 6% in 1998 and 5% in
1999. Growth continued at the moderately strong level of 5.5%, a
level that should be matched in 2001. These numbers mask some major
difficulties in economic performance. Many domestic industries,
including coal, cement, steel, and paper, have reported large
stockpiles of inventory and tough competition from more efficient
foreign producers; this problem apparently eased in 2000. Foreign
direct investment fell dramatically, from $8.3 billion in 1996 to
about $1.6 billion in 1999. Meanwhile, Vietnamese authorities have
moved slowly in implementing the structural reforms needed to
revitalize the economy and produce more competitive, export-driven
industries.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $154.4 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 5.5% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $1,950 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  25%

industry:  35%

services:  40% (1999 est.)

Population below poverty line: 37% (1998 est.)

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:
3.5%

highest 10%:  29% (1993)

Inflation rate (consumer prices): -0.6% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 38.2 million (1998 est.)

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture 67%, industry and services
33% (1997 est.)

Unemployment rate: 25% (1995 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $5.3 billion

expenditures:  $5.6 billion, including capital expenditures of $1.8
billion (1999 est.)

Industries: food processing, garments, shoes, machine building,
mining, cement, chemical fertilizer, glass, tires, oil, coal, steel,
paper

Industrial production growth rate: 10.7% (2000 est.)

Electricity - production: 22.985 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  47.71%

hydro:  52.29%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 21.376 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: paddy rice, corn, potatoes, rubber,
soybeans, coffee, tea, bananas, sugar; poultry, pigs; fish

Exports: $14.3 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Exports - commodities: crude oil, marine products, rice, coffee,
rubber, tea, garments, shoes

Exports - partners: China, Japan, Germany, Australia, US, France,
Singapore, UK, Taiwan

Imports: $15.2 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Imports - commodities: machinery and equipment, petroleum products,
fertilizer, steel products, raw cotton, grain, cement, motorcycles

Imports - partners: Japan, Singapore, South Korea, Taiwan, China,
Thailand, Hong Kong, Malaysia, Indonesia, France, US, Sweden

Debt - external: $13.2 billion (2000)

Economic aid - recipient: $2.1 billion in credits and grants pledged
by international donors for 2000

Currency: dong (VND)

Currency code: VND

Exchange rates: dong per US dollar - 14,530 (January 2001), 14,020
(January 2000), 13,900 (December 1998), 11,100 (December 1996),
11,193 (1995 average), 11,000 (October 1994)

Fiscal year: calendar year



Vietnam    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 2.6 million (2000)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 730,155 (2000)

Telephone system: general assessment:  Vietnam is putting
considerable effort into modernization and expansion of its
telecommunication system, but its performance continues to lag
behind that of its more modern neighbors

domestic:  all provincial exchanges are digitalized and connected to
Hanoi, Da Nang, and Ho Chi Minh City by fiber-optic cable or
microwave radio relay networks; since 1991, main lines in use have
been substantially increased and the use of mobile telephones is
growing rapidly

international:  satellite earth stations - 2 Intersputnik (Indian
Ocean region)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 65, FM 7, shortwave 29 (1999)

Radios: 8.2 million (1997)

Television broadcast stations: at least 7 (plus 13 repeaters) (1998)

Televisions: 3.57 million (1997)

Internet country code: .vn

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 5 (2000)

Internet users: 121,000 (2000)



Vietnam    Transportation

Railways: total:  2,652 km

standard gauge:  166 km 1.435-m gauge

narrow gauge:  2,249 km 1.000-m gauge

dual gauge:  237 km NA-m gauges (three rails) (1998)

Highways: total:  93,300 km

paved:  23,418 km

unpaved:  69,882 km (1996)

Waterways: 17,702 km

note:  more than 5,149 km are navigable at all times by vessels up
to 1.8 m draft

Pipelines: petroleum products 150 km

Ports and harbors: Cam Ranh, Da Nang, Haiphong, Ho Chi Minh City, Ha
Long, Quy Nhon, Nha Trang, Vinh, Vung Tau

Merchant marine: total:  143 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
705,388 GRT/1,071,902 DWT

ships by type:  bulk 8, cargo 108, chemical tanker 1, combination
bulk 1, container 2, liquefied gas 2, petroleum tanker 18,
refrigerated cargo 3 (2000 est.)

Airports: 34 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  17

over 3,047 m:  8

2,438 to 3,047 m:  3

1,524 to 2,437 m:  4

under 914 m:  2 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  17

over 3,047 m:  1

1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

914 to 1,523 m:  7

under 914 m:  8 (2000 est.)



Vietnam    Military

Military branches: People's Army of Vietnam (PAVN) (includes Ground
Forces, Navy, and Air Force), Coast Guard

Military manpower - military age: 17 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  21,704,588 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
13,673,438 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  961,124
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $650 million (FY98)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 2.5% (FY98)



Vietnam    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: maritime boundary with Cambodia not
defined; involved in a complex dispute over the Spratly Islands with
China, Malaysia, Philippines, Taiwan, and possibly Brunei; maritime
boundary agreement with China in the Gulf of Tonkin awaits
ratification; Paracel Islands occupied by China but claimed by
Vietnam and Taiwan; portions of boundary with Cambodia are in
dispute; agreement on land border with China was signed in December
1999, but details of alignment have not yet been made public

Illicit drugs: minor producer of opium poppy with 2,100 hectares
cultivated in 1999, capable of producing 11 metric tons of opium;
probable minor transit point for Southeast Asian heroin;
opium/heroin/methamphetamine addiction problems

======================================================================

@Virgin Islands





Virgin Islands    Introduction

Background: During the 17th century, the archipelago was divided
into two territorial units, one English and the other Danish.
Sugarcane, produced by slave labor, drove the islands' economy
during the 18th and early 19th centuries. In 1917, the US purchased
the Danish portion, which had been in economic decline since the
abolition of slavery in 1848.



Virgin Islands    Geography

Location: Caribbean, islands between the Caribbean Sea and the North
Atlantic Ocean, east of Puerto Rico

Geographic coordinates: 18 20 N, 64 50 W

Map references: Central America and the Caribbean

Area: total:  352 sq km

land:  349 sq km

water:  3 sq km

Area - comparative: twice the size of Washington, DC

Land boundaries: 0 km

Coastline: 188 km

Maritime claims: exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: subtropical, tempered by easterly trade winds, relatively
low humidity, little seasonal temperature variation; rainy season
May to November

Terrain: mostly hilly to rugged and mountainous with little level
land

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Caribbean Sea 0 m

highest point:  Crown Mountain 474 m

Natural resources: sun, sand, sea, surf

Land use: arable land:  15%

permanent crops:  6%

permanent pastures:  26%

forests and woodland:  6%

other:  47% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: NA sq km

Natural hazards: several hurricanes in recent years; frequent and
severe droughts and floods; occasional earthquakes

Environment - current issues: lack of natural freshwater resources

Geography - note: important location along the Anegada Passage - a
key shipping lane for the Panama Canal; Saint Thomas has one of the
best natural, deepwater harbors in the Caribbean



Virgin Islands    People

Population: 122,211 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  27.27% (male 17,121; female 16,204)

15-64 years:  63.92% (male 35,391; female 42,727)

65 years and over:  8.81% (male 4,638; female 6,130) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 1.06% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 15.9 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 5.47 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 0.12 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.06 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.06 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  0.83 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.76 male(s)/female

total population:  0.88 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 9.43 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  78.27 years

male:  74.38 years

female:  82.39 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 2.25 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: NA%

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: NA

HIV/AIDS - deaths: NA

Nationality: noun:  Virgin Islander(s)

adjective:  Virgin Islander

Ethnic groups: black 80%, white 15%, other 5%

note:  West Indian (45% born in the Virgin Islands and 29% born
elsewhere in the West Indies) 74%, US mainland 13%, Puerto Rican 5%,
other 8%

Religions: Baptist 42%, Roman Catholic 34%, Episcopalian 17%, other
7%

Languages: English (official), Spanish, Creole

Literacy: definition:  NA

total population:  NA%

male:  NA%

female:  NA%



Virgin Islands    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  United States Virgin Islands

conventional short form:  Virgin Islands

former:  Danish West Indies

Dependency status: organized, unincorporated territory of the US
with policy relations between the Virgin Islands and the US under
the jurisdiction of the Office of Insular Affairs, US Department of
the Interior

Government type: NA

Capital: Charlotte Amalie

Administrative divisions: none (territory of the US); there are no
first-order administrative divisions as defined by the US
Government, but there are three islands at the second order; Saint
Croix, Saint John, Saint Thomas

National holiday: Transfer Day (from Denmark to the US), 27 March
(1917)

Constitution: Revised Organic Act of 22 July 1954

Legal system: based on US laws

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal; note - indigenous inhabitants
are US citizens but do not vote in US presidential elections

Executive branch: chief of state:  President George W. BUSH of the
US (since 20 January 2001); Vice President Richard B. CHENEY (Since
20 January 2001)

head of government:  Governor Dr. Charles Wesley TURNBULL (since 5
January 1999) and Lieutenant Governor Gererd LUZ James II (since 5
January 1999)

cabinet:  NA

elections:  US president and vice president elected on the same
ticket for four-year terms; governor and lieutenant governor elected
on the same ticket by popular vote for four-year terms; election
last held 3 November 1998 (next to be held NA November 2002)

election results:  Dr. Charles Wesley TURNBULL elected governor;
percent of vote - Dr. Charles W. TURNBULL (Democrat) 58.9%, former
Governor Roy L. SCHNEIDER (ICM) 41.1%

Legislative branch: unicameral Senate (15 seats; members are elected
by popular vote to serve two-year terms)

elections:  last held 7 November 2000 (next to be held NA November
2002)

election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
Democratic Party 6, ICM 2, independents 7

note:  the Virgin Islands elects one non-voting representative to
the US House of Representatives; election last held 7 November 2000
(next to be held NA November 2002); results - Donna M.
CHRISTIAN-CHRISTENSON (Democrat) elected

Judicial branch: US District Court of the Virgin Islands (under
Third Circuit jurisdiction); Territorial Court (judges appointed by
the governor for 10-year terms)

Political parties and leaders: Democratic Party [Arturo WATLINGTON];
Independent Citizens' Movement or ICM [Usie RICHON]; Republican
Party [Gary SCROUVE]

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: ECLAC (associate),
Interpol (subbureau), IOC

Diplomatic representation in the US: none (territory of the US)

Diplomatic representation from the US: none (territory of the US)

Flag description: white, with a modified US coat of arms in the
center between the large blue initials V and I; the coat of arms
shows a yellow eagle holding an olive branch in one talon and three
arrows in the other with a superimposed shield of vertical red and
white stripes below a blue panel



Virgin Islands    Economy

Economy - overview: Tourism is the primary economic activity,
accounting for more than 70% of GDP and 70% of employment. The
islands normally host 2 million visitors a year. The manufacturing
sector consists of petroleum refining, textiles, electronics,
pharmaceuticals, and watch assembly. The agricultural sector is
small, with most food being imported. International business and
financial services are a small but growing component of the economy.
One of the world's largest petroleum refineries is at Saint Croix.
The islands are subject to substantial damage from storms. The
government is working to improve fiscal discipline, support
construction projects in the private sector, expand tourist
facilities, and protect the environment.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $1.8 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: NA%

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $15,000 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  NA%

industry:  NA%

services:  NA%

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): NA%

Labor force: 47,443 (1990 est.)

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture 1%, industry 20%, services
79% (1990 est.)

Unemployment rate: 4.9% (March 1999)

Budget: revenues:  $364.4 million

expenditures:  $364.4 million, including capital expenditures of $NA
(1990 est.)

Industries: tourism, petroleum refining, watch assembly, rum
distilling, construction, pharmaceuticals, textiles, electronics

Industrial production growth rate: NA%

Electricity - production: 1.02 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  100%

hydro:  0%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 948.6 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: fruit, vegetables, sorghum; Senepol cattle

Exports: $NA

Exports - commodities: refined petroleum products

Exports - partners: US, Puerto Rico

Imports: $NA

Imports - commodities: crude oil, foodstuffs, consumer goods,
building materials

Imports - partners: US, Puerto Rico

Debt - external: $NA

Economic aid - recipient: $NA

Currency: US dollar (USD)

Currency code: USD

Exchange rates: the US dollar is used

Fiscal year: 1 October - 30 September



Virgin Islands    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 62,000 (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 2,000 (1992)

Telephone system: general assessment:  NA

domestic:  modern, uses fiber-optic cable and microwave radio relay

international:  submarine cable and satellite communications;
satellite earth stations - NA

Radio broadcast stations: AM 5, FM 11, shortwave 0 (1998)

Radios: 107,000 (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 2 (1997)

Televisions: 68,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .vi

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 50 (2000)

Internet users: 12,000 (2000)



Virgin Islands    Transportation

Railways: 0 km

Highways: total:  856 km

paved:  NA km

unpaved:  NA km (2000)

Waterways: none

Ports and harbors: Charlotte Amalie, Christiansted, Cruz Bay, Port
Alucroix

Merchant marine: none (2000 est.)

Airports: 2

note:  international airports on Saint Thomas and Saint Croix (2000
est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  2

1,524 to 2,437 m:  2 (2000 est.)



Virgin Islands    Military

Military - note: defense is the responsibility of the US



Virgin Islands    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

======================================================================

@Wake Island





Wake Island    Introduction

Background: The US annexed Wake Island in 1899 for a cable station.
An important air and naval base was constructed in 1940-41. In
December 1941 the island was captured by the Japanese and held until
the end of World War II. In subsequent years, Wake was developed as
a stopover and refueling site for military and commercial aircraft
transiting the Pacific. Since 1974, the island's airstrip has been
used by the US military and some commercial cargo planes, as well as
for emergency landings. There are over 700 landings a year on the
island.



Wake Island    Geography

Location: Oceania, atoll in the North Pacific Ocean, about
two-thirds of the way from Hawaii to the Northern Mariana Islands

Geographic coordinates: 19 17 N, 166 36 E

Map references: Oceania

Area: total:  6.5 sq km

land:  6.5 sq km

water:  0 sq km

Area - comparative: about 11 times the size of The Mall in
Washington, DC

Land boundaries: 0 km

Coastline: 19.3 km

Maritime claims: exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: tropical

Terrain: atoll of three coral islands built up on an underwater
volcano; central lagoon is former crater, islands are part of the rim

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Pacific Ocean 0 m

highest point:  unnamed location 6 m

Natural resources: none

Land use: arable land:  0%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  0%

forests and woodland:  0%

other:  100%

Irrigated land: 0 sq km (1998)

Natural hazards: occasional typhoons

Environment - current issues: NA

Geography - note: strategic location in the North Pacific Ocean;
emergency landing location for transpacific flights



Wake Island    People

Population: no indigenous inhabitants

note:  US military personnel have left the island, but civilian
personnel remain; as of December 2000, one US Army civilian and 123
civilian contractor personnel were present (January 2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: NA



Wake Island    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  none

conventional short form:  Wake Island

Dependency status: unincorporated territory of the US; administered
from Washington, DC, by the Department of the Interior; activities
on the island are managed by the US Army under a US Air Force permit

Legal system: the laws of the US, where applicable, apply

Flag description: the flag of the US is used



Wake Island    Economy

Economy - overview: Economic activity is limited to providing
services to contractors located on the island. All food and
manufactured goods must be imported.

Electricity - production: NA kWh



Wake Island    Communications

Telephone system: general assessment:  satellite communications; 1
DSN circuit off the Overseas Telephone System (OTS)

domestic:  NA

international:  NA

Radio broadcast stations: AM 0, FM NA, shortwave NA

note:  Armed Forces Radio/Television Service (AFRTS) radio service
provided by satellite (1998)

Television broadcast stations: 0 (1997)



Wake Island    Transportation

Waterways: none

Ports and harbors: none; two offshore anchorages for large ships

Airports: 1 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  1

2,438 to 3,047 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Transportation - note: formerly an important commercial aviation
base, now used by US military, some commercial cargo planes, and for
emergency landings



Wake Island    Military

Military - note: defense is the responsibility of the US



Wake Island    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: claimed by Marshall Islands

======================================================================

@Wallis and Futuna





Wallis and Futuna    Introduction

Background: Although discovered by the Dutch and the British in the
17th and 18th centuries, it was the French who declared a
protectorate over the islands in 1842. In 1959, the inhabitants of
the islands voted to become a French overseas territory.



Wallis and Futuna    Geography

Location: Oceania, islands in the South Pacific Ocean, about
two-thirds of the way from Hawaii to New Zealand

Geographic coordinates: 13 18 S, 176 12 W

Map references: Oceania

Area: total:  274 sq km

land:  274 sq km

water:  0 sq km

note:  includes Ile Uvea (Wallis Island), Ile Futuna (Futuna
Island), Ile Alofi, and 20 islets

Area - comparative: 1.5 times the size of Washington, DC

Land boundaries: 0 km

Coastline: 129 km

Maritime claims: exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: tropical; hot, rainy season (November to April); cool, dry
season (May to October); rains 2,500-3,000 mm per year (80%
humidity); average temperature 26.6 degrees C

Terrain: volcanic origin; low hills

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Pacific Ocean 0 m

highest point:  Mont Singavi 765 m

Natural resources: NEGL

Land use: arable land:  5%

permanent crops:  20%

permanent pastures:  0%

forests and woodland:  0%

other:  75% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: NA sq km

Natural hazards: NA

Environment - current issues: deforestation (only small portions of
the original forests remain) largely as a result of the continued
use of wood as the main fuel source; as a consequence of cutting
down the forests, the mountainous terrain of Futuna is particularly
prone to erosion; there are no permanent settlements on Alofi
because of the lack of natural fresh water resources

Geography - note: both island groups have fringing reefs



Wallis and Futuna    People

Population: 15,435 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  NA%

15-64 years:  NA%

65 years and over:  NA%

Population growth rate: NA%

Birth rate: NA births/1,000 population

Death rate: NA deaths/1,000 population

Net migration rate: NA migrant(s)/1,000 population

Infant mortality rate: NA deaths/1,000 live births

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  NA years

male:  NA years

female:  NA years

Total fertility rate: NA children born/woman

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: NA%

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: NA

HIV/AIDS - deaths: NA

Nationality: noun:  Wallisian(s), Futunan(s), or Wallis and Futuna
Islanders

adjective:  Wallisian, Futunan, or Wallis and Futuna Islander

Ethnic groups: Polynesian

Religions: Roman Catholic 100%

Languages: French, Wallisian (indigenous Polynesian language)

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  50%

male:  50%

female:  50% (1969 est.)



Wallis and Futuna    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Territory of the Wallis and
Futuna Islands

conventional short form:  Wallis and Futuna

local long form:  Territoire des Iles Wallis et Futuna

local short form:  Wallis et Futuna

Dependency status: overseas territory of France

Government type: NA

Capital: Mata-Utu (on Ile Uvea)

Administrative divisions: none (overseas territory of France); there
are no first-order administrative divisions as defined by the US
Government, but there are three kingdoms named Alo, Sigave, Wallis

Independence: none (overseas territory of France)

National holiday: Bastille Day, 14 July (1789)

Constitution: 28 September 1958 (French Constitution)

Legal system: French legal system

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Jacques CHIRAC of
France (since 17 May 1995), represented by High Administrator
Christian DORS (since NA)

head of government:  President of the Territorial Assembly Soane
UHILA (since NA)

cabinet:  Council of the Territory consists of three kings and three
members appointed by the high administrator on the advice of the
Territorial Assembly

note:  there are three traditional kings with limited powers

elections:  French president elected by popular vote for a
seven-year term; high administrator appointed by the French
president on the advice of the French Ministry of the Interior; the
presidents of the Territorial Government and the Territorial
Assembly are elected by the members of the assembly

Legislative branch: unicameral Territorial Assembly or Assemblee
Territoriale (20 seats; members are elected by popular vote to serve
five-year terms)

elections:  last held 16 March 1997 (next to be held NA March 2002)

election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
RPR 14, other 6

note:  Wallis and Futuna elects one senator to the French Senate and
one deputy to the French National Assembly; French Senate -
elections last held 27 September 1998 (next to be held by NA
September 2007); results - percent of vote by party - NA; seats -
RPR 1; French National Assembly - elections last held 25 May-1 June
1997 (next to be held by NA March 2002); results - percent of vote
by party - NA; seats - RPR 1

Judicial branch: none; justice generally administered under French
law by the high administrator, but the three traditional kings
administer customary law and there is a magistrate in Mata-Utu

Political parties and leaders: Lua Kae Tahi (Giscardians) [leader
NA]; Mouvement des Radicaux de Gauche or MRG [leader NA]; Rally for
the Republic or RPR [Clovis LOGOLOGOFOLAU]; Taumu'a Lelei [Soane
Muni UHILA]; Union Populaire Locale or UPL [Falakiko GATA]; Union
Pour la Democratie Francaise or UDF [leader NA]

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: FZ, SPC

Diplomatic representation in the US: none (overseas territory of
France)

Diplomatic representation from the US: none (overseas territory of
France)

Flag description: a large white modified Maltese cross centered on a
red background; the flag of France outlined in white on two sides is
in the upper hoist quadrant; the flag of France is used for official
occasions



Wallis and Futuna    Economy

Economy - overview: The economy is limited to traditional
subsistence agriculture, with about 80% of the labor force earning
its livelihood from agriculture (coconuts and vegetables), livestock
(mostly pigs), and fishing. About 4% of the population is employed
in government. Revenues come from French Government subsidies,
licensing of fishing rights to Japan and South Korea, import taxes,
and remittances from expatriate workers in New Caledonia.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $30 million (1997 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: NA%

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $2,000 (1997 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  NA%

industry:  NA%

services:  NA%

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): NA%

Labor force: NA

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture, livestock, and fishing
80%, government 4% (est.)

Unemployment rate: NA%

Budget: revenues:  $20 million

expenditures:  $17 million, including capital expenditures of $NA
(1998 est.)

Industries: copra, handicrafts, fishing, lumber

Industrial production growth rate: NA%

Electricity - production: NA kWh

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  NA%

hydro:  NA%

nuclear:  NA%

other:  NA%

Electricity - consumption: NA kWh

Agriculture - products: breadfruit, yams, taro, bananas; pigs, goats

Exports: $250,000 (f.o.b., 1999)

Exports - commodities: copra, chemicals, construction materials

Exports - partners: Italy 40%, Croatia 15%, US 14%, Denmark 13%

Imports: $300,000 (f.o.b., 1999)

Imports - commodities: chemicals, machinery, passenger ships,
consumer goods

Imports - partners: France 97%, Australia 2%, New Zealand 1%

Debt - external: $NA

Economic aid - recipient: assistance from France

Currency: Comptoirs Francais du Pacifique franc (XPF)

Currency code: XPF

Exchange rates: Comptoirs Francais du Pacifique francs (XPF) per US
dollar - 1127.11 (January 2001), 129.43 (2000), 111.93 (1999),
107.25 (1998), 106.11 (1997), 93.00 (1996); note - linked at the
rate of 119.25 XPF to the euro

Fiscal year: calendar year



Wallis and Futuna    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 1,125 (1994)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 0 (1994)

Telephone system: general assessment:  NA

domestic:  NA

international:  NA

Radio broadcast stations: AM 1, FM 0, shortwave 0 (2000)

Radios: NA

Television broadcast stations: 2 (2000)

Televisions: NA

Internet country code: .wf

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 1 (2000)

Internet users: NA



Wallis and Futuna    Transportation

Railways: 0 km

Highways: total:  120 km (Ile Uvea 100 km, Ile Futuna 20 km)

paved:  16 km (all on Ile Uvea)

unpaved:  104 km (Ile Uvea 84 km, Ile Futuna 20 km)

Waterways: none

Ports and harbors: Leava, Mata-Utu

Merchant marine: total:  4 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 48,853
GRT/43,128 DWT

ships by type:  passenger 3, petroleum tanker 1

note:  includes some foreign-owned ships registered here as a flag
of convenience: France 1 (2000 est.)

Airports: 2 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  1

1,524 to 2,437 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  1

914 to 1,523 m:  1 (2000 est.)



Wallis and Futuna    Military

Military - note: defense is the responsibility of France



Wallis and Futuna    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: none

======================================================================

@West Bank




West Bank    Introduction

Background: The Israel-PLO Declaration of Principles on Interim
Self-Government Arrangements (the DOP), signed in Washington on 13
September 1993, provided for a transitional period not exceeding
five years of Palestinian interim self-government in the Gaza Strip
and the West Bank. Under the DOP, Israel agreed to transfer certain
powers and responsibilities to the Palestinian Authority, which
includes the Palestinian Legislative Council elected in January
1996, as part of interim self-governing arrangements in the West
Bank and Gaza Strip. A transfer of powers and responsibilities for
the Gaza Strip and Jericho took place pursuant to the Israel-PLO 4
May 1994 Cairo Agreement on the Gaza Strip and the Jericho Area and
in additional areas of the West Bank pursuant to the Israel-PLO 28
September 1995 Interim Agreement, the Israel-PLO 15 January 1997
Protocol Concerning Redeployment in Hebron, the Israel-PLO 23
October 1998 Wye River Memorandum, and the 4 September 1999 Sharm
el-Sheikh Agreement. The DOP provides that Israel will retain
responsibility during the transitional period for external security
and for internal security and public order of settlements and
Israeli citizens. Permanent status is to be determined through
direct negotiations, which resumed in September 1999 after a
three-year hiatus. An intifadah broke out in September 2000; the
resulting widespread violence in the West Bank and Gaza Strip,
Israel's military response, and instability in the Palestinian
Authority are undermining progress toward a permanent settlement.



West Bank    Geography

Location: Middle East, west of Jordan

Geographic coordinates: 32 00 N, 35 15 E

Map references: Middle East

Area: total:  5,860 sq km

land:  5,640 sq km

water:  220 sq km

note:  includes West Bank, Latrun Salient, and the northwest quarter
of the Dead Sea, but excludes Mt. Scopus; East Jerusalem and
Jerusalem No Man's Land are also included only as a means of
depicting the entire area occupied by Israel in 1967

Area - comparative: slightly smaller than Delaware

Land boundaries: total:  404 km

border countries:  Israel 307 km, Jordan 97 km

Coastline: 0 km (landlocked)

Maritime claims: none (landlocked)

Climate: temperate, temperature and precipitation vary with
altitude, warm to hot summers, cool to mild winters

Terrain: mostly rugged dissected upland, some vegetation in west,
but barren in east

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Dead Sea -408 m

highest point:  Tall Asur 1,022 m

Natural resources: arable land

Land use: arable land:  27%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  32%

forests and woodland:  1%

other:  40%

Irrigated land: NA sq km

Natural hazards: droughts

Environment - current issues: adequacy of fresh water supply; sewage
treatment

Geography - note: landlocked; highlands are main recharge area for
Israel's coastal aquifers; there are 231 Israeli settlements and
civilian land use sites in the West Bank and 29 in East Jerusalem
(August 1999 est.)



West Bank    People

Population: 2,090,713 (July 2001 est.)

note:  in addition, there are some 176,000 Israeli settlers in the
West Bank and about 173,000 in East Jerusalem (August 1999 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  44.61% (male 478,232; female 454,439)

15-64 years:  51.8% (male 552,661; female 530,230)

65 years and over:  3.59% (male 32,629; female 42,522) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 3.48% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 35.83 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 4.37 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 3.29 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.06 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.77 male(s)/female

total population:  1.04 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 21.78 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  72.28 years

male:  70.58 years

female:  74.07 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 4.9 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: NA%

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: NA

HIV/AIDS - deaths: NA

Nationality: noun:  NA

adjective:  NA

Ethnic groups: Palestinian Arab and other 83%, Jewish 17%

Religions: Muslim 75% (predominantly Sunni), Jewish 17%, Christian
and other 8%

Languages: Arabic, Hebrew (spoken by Israeli settlers and many
Palestinians), English (widely understood)

Literacy: definition:  NA

total population:  NA%

male:  NA%

female:  NA%



West Bank    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  none

conventional short form:  West Bank



West Bank    Economy

Economy - overview: Economic output in the West Bank is governed by
the Paris Economic Protocol of April 1994 between Israel and the
Palestinian Authority. Real per capita GDP for the West Bank and
Gaza Strip (WBGS) declined by 36.1% between 1992 and 1996 owing to
the combined effect of falling aggregate incomes and rapid
population growth. The downturn in economic activity was largely the
result of Israeli closure policies - the imposition of border
closures in response to security incidents in Israel - which
disrupted established labor and commodity market relationships
between Israel and the WBGS. The most serious social effect of this
downturn was rising unemployment; unemployment in the WBGS during
the 1980s was generally under 5%; by 1995 it had risen to over 20%.
Since 1997 Israel's use of comprehensive closures has decreased and,
in 1998, Israel implemented new policies to reduce the impact of
closures and other security procedures on the movement of
Palestinian goods and labor. These changes fueled an almost
three-year long economic recovery in the West Bank and Gaza Strip;
real GDP grew by 5% in 1998 and 6% in 1999. Recovery was upended in
the last quarter of 2000 with the outbreak of Palestinian violence,
which triggered tight Israeli closures of Palestinian self-rule
areas and a severe disruption of trade and labor movements.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $3.1 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: -7.5% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $1,500 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  9%

industry:  28%

services:  63%

note:  includes Gaza Strip (1999 est.)

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 3% (includes Gaza Strip) (2000
est.)

Labor force: NA

Labor force - by occupation: services 66%, industry 21%, agriculture
13% (1996)

Unemployment rate: 40% (includes Gaza Strip) (yearend 2000)

Budget: revenues:  $1.6 billion

expenditures:  $1.73 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA

note:  includes Gaza Strip (1999 est.)

Industries: generally small family businesses that produce cement,
textiles, soap, olive-wood carvings, and mother-of-pearl souvenirs;
the Israelis have established some small-scale, modern industries in
the settlements and industrial centers

Industrial production growth rate: NA%

Electricity - production: NA kWh; note - most electricity imported
from Israel; East Jerusalem Electric Company buys and distributes
electricity to Palestinians in East Jerusalem and its concession in
the West Bank; the Israel Electric Company directly supplies
electricity to most Jewish residents and military facilities; at the
same time, some Palestinian municipalities, such as Nablus and
Janin, generate their own electricity from small power plants

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  NA%

hydro:  NA%

nuclear:  NA%

other:  NA%

Electricity - consumption: NA kWh

Electricity - imports: NA kWh

Agriculture - products: olives, citrus, vegetables; beef, dairy
products

Exports: $682 million (includes Gaza Strip) (f.o.b., 1998 est.)

Exports - commodities: olives, fruit, vegetables, limestone

Exports - partners: Israel, Jordan, Gaza Strip

Imports: $2.5 billion (includes Gaza Strip) (c.i.f., 1998 est.)

Imports - commodities: food, consumer goods, construction materials

Imports - partners: Israel, Jordan, Gaza Strip

Debt - external: $108 million (includes Gaza Strip) (1997 est.)

Economic aid - recipient: $121 million disbursed (includes Gaza
Strip) (2000)

Currency: new Israeli shekel (ILS); Jordanian dinar (JOD)

Currency code: ILS; JOD

Exchange rates: new Israeli shekels per US dollar - 4.0810 (December
2000), 4.0773 (2000), 4.1397 (1999), 3.8001 (1998), 3.4494 (1997),
3.1917 (1996); Jordanian dinars per US dollar - fixed rate of 0.7090
(from 1996)

Fiscal year: calendar year (since 1 January 1992)



West Bank    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 95,729 (total for West Bank and Gaza
Strip) (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: NA

Telephone system: general assessment:  NA

domestic:  NA

international:  NA

note:  Israeli company BEZEK and the Palestinian company PALTEL are
responsible for communication services in the West Bank

Radio broadcast stations: AM 1, FM 0, shortwave 0

note:  the Palestinian Broadcasting Corporation broadcasts from an
AM station in Ramallah on 675 kHz; numerous local, private stations
are reported to be in operation (2000)

Radios: NA; note - most Palestinian households have radios (1999)

Television broadcast stations: NA

Televisions: NA; note - many Palestinian households have televisions
(1999)

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 8 (1999)

Internet users: 23,520 (includes Gaza Strip) (1999)



West Bank    Transportation

Railways: 0 km

Highways: total:  4,500 km

paved:  2,700 km

unpaved:  1,800 km (1997 est.)

note:  Israelis have developed many highways to service Jewish
settlements

Waterways: none

Ports and harbors: none

Airports: 3 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  3

2,438 to 3,047 m:  1

1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

under 914 m:  1 (2000 est.)



West Bank    Military

Military branches: NA

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $NA

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: NA%



West Bank    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: West Bank and Gaza Strip are
Israeli-occupied with current status subject to the
Israeli-Palestinian Interim Agreement - permanent status to be
determined through further negotiation

======================================================================

@Western Sahara




Western Sahara    Introduction

Background: Morocco virtually annexed the northern two-thirds of
Western Sahara (formerly Spanish Sahara) in 1976, and the rest of
the territory in 1979, following Mauritania's withdrawal. A
guerrilla war with the Polisario Front contesting Rabat's
sovereignty ended in a 1991 cease-fire; a referendum on final status
has been repeatedly postponed and is not expected to occur until at
least 2002.



Western Sahara    Geography

Location: Northern Africa, bordering the North Atlantic Ocean,
between Mauritania and Morocco

Geographic coordinates: 24 30 N, 13 00 W

Map references: Africa

Area: total:  266,000 sq km

land:  266,000 sq km

water:  0 sq km

Area - comparative: about the size of Colorado

Land boundaries: total:  2,046 km

border countries:  Algeria 42 km, Mauritania 1,561 km, Morocco 443 km

Coastline: 1,110 km

Maritime claims: contingent upon resolution of sovereignty issue

Climate: hot, dry desert; rain is rare; cold offshore air currents
produce fog and heavy dew

Terrain: mostly low, flat desert with large areas of rocky or sandy
surfaces rising to small mountains in south and northeast

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Sebjet Tah -55 m

highest point:  unnamed location 463 m

Natural resources: phosphates, iron ore

Land use: arable land:  0%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  19%

forests and woodland:  0%

other:  81%

Irrigated land: NA sq km

Natural hazards: hot, dry, dust/sand-laden sirocco wind can occur
during winter and spring; widespread harmattan haze exists 60% of
time, often severely restricting visibility

Environment - current issues: sparse water and lack of arable land

Environment - international agreements: party to:  none of the
selected agreements

signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements



Western Sahara    People

Population: 250,559 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  NA%

15-64 years:  NA%

65 years and over:  NA%

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: NA%

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: NA

HIV/AIDS - deaths: NA

Nationality: noun:  Sahrawi(s), Sahraoui(s)

adjective:  Sahrawian, Sahraouian

Ethnic groups: Arab, Berber

Religions: Muslim

Languages: Hassaniya Arabic, Moroccan Arabic

Literacy: definition:  NA

total population:  NA%

male:  NA%

female:  NA%



Western Sahara    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  none

conventional short form:  Western Sahara

former:  Spanish Sahara

Government type: legal status of territory and question of
sovereignty unresolved; territory contested by Morocco and Polisario
Front (Popular Front for the Liberation of the Saguia el Hamra and
Rio de Oro), which in February 1976 formally proclaimed a
government-in-exile of the Sahrawi Arab Democratic Republic (SADR);
territory partitioned between Morocco and Mauritania in April 1976,
with Morocco acquiring northern two-thirds; Mauritania, under
pressure from Polisario guerrillas, abandoned all claims to its
portion in August 1979; Morocco moved to occupy that sector shortly
thereafter and has since asserted administrative control; the
Polisario's government-in-exile was seated as an OAU member in 1984;
guerrilla activities continued sporadically, until a UN-monitored
cease-fire was implemented 6 September 1991

Capital: none

Administrative divisions: none (under de facto control of Morocco)

Suffrage: none; a UN-sponsored voter identification campaign has yet
to be completed

Executive branch: none

Political pressure groups and leaders: none

International organization participation: none

Diplomatic representation in the US: none

Diplomatic representation from the US: none



Western Sahara    Economy

Economy - overview: Western Sahara, a territory poor in natural
resources and lacking sufficient rainfall, depends on pastoral
nomadism, fishing, and phosphate mining as the principal sources of
income for the population. Most of the food for the urban population
must be imported. All trade and other economic activities are
controlled by the Moroccan Government. Incomes and standards of
living are substantially below the Moroccan level.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $NA

GDP - real growth rate: NA%

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $NA

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  NA%

industry:  NA%

services:  40%-45% (1996 est.)

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): NA%

Labor force: 12,000

Labor force - by occupation: animal husbandry and subsistence
farming 50%

Unemployment rate: NA%

Budget: revenues:  $NA

expenditures:  $NA, including capital expenditures of $NA

Industries: phosphate mining, handicrafts

Industrial production growth rate: NA%

Electricity - production: 90 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  100%

hydro:  0%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 83.7 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: fruits and vegetables (grown in the few
oases); camels, sheep, goats (kept by nomads)

Exports: $NA

Exports - commodities: phosphates 62%

Exports - partners: Morocco claims and administers Western Sahara,
so trade partners are included in overall Moroccan accounts

Imports: $NA

Imports - commodities: fuel for fishing fleet, foodstuffs

Imports - partners: Morocco claims and administers Western Sahara,
so trade partners are included in overall Moroccan accounts

Debt - external: $NA

Economic aid - recipient: $NA

Currency: Moroccan dirham (MAD)

Currency code: MAD

Exchange rates: Moroccan dirhams per US dollar - 10.590 (January
2001), 10.626 (2000), 9.804 (1999), 9.604 (1998), 9.527 (1997),
8.716 (1996)

Fiscal year: calendar year



Western Sahara    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: about 2,000 (1999 est.)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 0 (1999)

Telephone system: general assessment:  sparse and limited system

domestic:  NA

international:  tied into Morocco's system by microwave radio relay,
tropospheric scatter, and satellite; satellite earth stations - 2
Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean) linked to Rabat, Morocco

Radio broadcast stations: AM 2, FM 0, shortwave 0 (1998)

Radios: 56,000 (1997)

Television broadcast stations: NA

Televisions: 6,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .eh

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 1 (2000)

Internet users: NA



Western Sahara    Transportation

Railways: 0 km

Highways: total:  6,200 km

paved:  1,350 km

unpaved:  4,850 km (1991 est.)

Waterways: none

Ports and harbors: Ad Dakhla, Cabo Bojador, Laayoune (El Aaiun)

Airports: 11 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  3

2,438 to 3,047 m:  3 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  8

1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

914 to 1,523 m:  4

under 914 m:  3 (2000 est.)

Heliports: 1 (2000 est.)



Western Sahara    Military

Military branches: NA

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $NA

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: NA%



Western Sahara    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: claimed and administered by Morocco, but
sovereignty is unresolved and the UN is attempting to hold a
referendum on the issue; the UN-administered cease-fire has been in
effect since September 1991

======================================================================

@World

World    Introduction Top of Page

Background: Globally, the 20th century was marked by: (a) two
devastating world wars; (b) the Great Depression of the 1930s; (c)
the end of vast colonial empires; (d) rapid advances in science and
technology, from the first airplane flight at Kitty Hawk, North
Carolina (US) to the landing on the moon; (e) the Cold War between
the Western alliance and the Warsaw Pact nations; (f) a sharp rise
in living standards in North America, Europe, and Japan; (g)
increased concerns about the environment, including loss of forests,
shortages of energy and water, the drop in biological diversity, and
air pollution; (h) the onset of the AIDS epidemic; and (i) the
ultimate emergence of the US as the only world superpower. The
planet's population continues to explode: from 1 billion in 1820, to
2 billion in 1930, 3 billion in 1960, 4 billion in 1974, 5 billion
in 1988, and 6 billion in 2000. For the 21st century, the continued
exponential growth in science and technology raises both hopes
(e.g., advances in medicine) and fears (e.g., development of even
more lethal weapons of war).



World    Geography

Map references: World, Time Zones

Area: total:  510.072 million sq km

land:  148.94 million sq km

water:  361.132 million sq km

note:  70.8% of the world's surface is water, 29.2% is land

Area - comparative: land area about 16 times the size of the US

Land boundaries: the land boundaries in the world total 251,480.24
km (not counting shared boundaries twice)

Coastline: 356,000 km

Maritime claims: contiguous zone:  24 NM claimed by most, but can
vary

continental shelf:  200-m depth claimed by most or to depth of
exploitation; others claim 200 NM or to the edge of the continental
margin

exclusive fishing zone:  200 NM claimed by most, but can vary

exclusive economic zone:  200 NM claimed by most, but can vary

territorial sea:  12 NM claimed by most, but can vary

note:  boundary situations with neighboring states prevent many
countries from extending their fishing or economic zones to a full
200 NM; 43 nations and other areas that are landlocked include
Afghanistan, Andorra, Armenia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Bhutan,
Bolivia, Botswana, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Central African Republic,
Chad, Czech Republic, Ethiopia, Holy See (Vatican City), Hungary,
Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Laos, Lesotho, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg,
Malawi, Mali, Moldova, Mongolia, Nepal, Niger, Paraguay, Rwanda, San
Marino, Slovakia, Swaziland, Switzerland, Tajikistan, The Former
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Turkmenistan, Uganda, Uzbekistan,
West Bank, Zambia, Zimbabwe

Climate: two large areas of polar climates separated by two rather
narrow temperate zones from a wide equatorial band of tropical to
subtropical climates

Terrain: the greatest ocean depth is the Mariana Trench at 10,924 m
in the Pacific Ocean

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Bentley Subglacial Trench -2,540 m

highest point:  Mount Everest 8,850 m (1999 est.)

Natural resources: the rapid using up of nonrenewable mineral
resources, the depletion of forest areas and wetlands, the
extinction of animal and plant species, and the deterioration in air
and water quality (especially in Eastern Europe, the former USSR,
and China) pose serious long-term problems that governments and
peoples are only beginning to address

Land use: arable land:  10%

permanent crops:  1%

permanent pastures:  26%

forests and woodland:  32%

other:  31% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 2,481,250 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: large areas subject to severe weather (tropical
cyclones), natural disasters (earthquakes, landslides, tsunamis,
volcanic eruptions)

Environment - current issues: large areas subject to overpopulation,
industrial disasters, pollution (air, water, acid rain, toxic
substances), loss of vegetation (overgrazing, deforestation,
desertification), loss of wildlife, soil degradation, soil
depletion, erosion



World    People

Population: 6,157,400,560 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  29.6% (male 933,647,850; female
886,681,514)

15-64 years:  63.4% (male 1,975,418,386; female 1,931,021,694)

65 years and over:  7% (male 188,760,223; female 241,449,691) (2001
est.)

Population growth rate: 1.25% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 21.37 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 8.93 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1.02 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.78 male(s)/female

total population:  1.05 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 52.61 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  63.79 years

male:  62.15 years

female:  65.51 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 2.73 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: NA%

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: NA

HIV/AIDS - deaths: NA



World    Government

Administrative divisions: 267 nations, dependent areas, other, and
miscellaneous entries

Legal system: all members of the UN plus Switzerland are parties to
the statute that established the International Court of Justice
(ICJ) or World Court



World    Economy

Economy - overview: Growth in global output (gross world product,
GWP) rose to 4.8% in 2000 from 3.5% in 1999, despite continued low
growth in Japan, severe financial difficulties in other East Asian
countries, and widespread dislocations in several transition
economies. The US economy continued its remarkable sustained
prosperity, growing at 5% in 2000, although growth slowed in fourth
quarter 2000; the US accounted for 23% of GWP. The EU economies grew
at 3.3% and produced 20% of GWP. China, the second largest economy
in the world, continued its strong growth and accounted for 10% of
GWP. Japan grew at only 1.3% in 2000; its share in GWP is 7%. As
usual, the 15 successor nations of the USSR and the other old Warsaw
Pact nations experienced widely different rates of growth. The
developing nations also varied in their growth results, with many
countries facing population increases that eat up gains in output.
Externally, the nation-state, as a bedrock economic-political
institution, is steadily losing control over international flows of
people, goods, funds, and technology. Internally, the central
government often finds its control over resources slipping as
separatist regional movements - typically based on ethnicity - gain
momentum, e.g., in many of the successor states of the former Soviet
Union, in the former Yugoslavia, in India, and in Canada. In Western
Europe, governments face the difficult political problem of
channeling resources away from welfare programs in order to increase
investment and strengthen incentives to seek employment. The
addition of 80 million people each year to an already overcrowded
globe is exacerbating the problems of pollution, desertification,
underemployment, epidemics, and famine. Because of their own
internal problems and priorities, the industrialized countries
devote insufficient resources to deal effectively with the poorer
areas of the world, which, at least from the economic point of view,
are becoming further marginalized. Continued financial difficulties
in East Asia, Russia, and many African nations, as well as the
slowdown in US economic growth, cast a shadow over short-term global
economic prospects; GWP probably will grow at 3-4% in 2001. The
introduction of the euro as the common currency of much of Western
Europe in January 1999, while paving the way for an integrated
economic powerhouse, poses serious economic risks because of varying
levels of income and cultural and political differences among the
participating nations. (For specific economic developments in each
country of the world in 2000, see the individual country entries.)

GDP: GWP (gross world product) - purchasing power parity - $43.6
trillion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 4.8% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $7,200 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  4%

industry:  32%

services:  64% (1999 est.)

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): all countries 25%; developed
countries 1% to 3% typically; developing countries 5% to 60%
typically (2000 est.)

note:  national inflation rates vary widely in individual cases,
from stable prices in Japan to hyperinflation in a number of Third
World countries

Labor force: NA

Labor force - by occupation: agricultue NA%, industry NA%, services
NA%

Unemployment rate: 30% combined unemployment and underemployment in
many non-industrialized countries; developed countries typically
4%-12% unemployment (2000 est.)

Industries: dominated by the onrush of technology, especially in
computers, robotics, telecommunications, and medicines and medical
equipment; most of these advances take place in OECD nations; only a
small portion of non-OECD countries have succeeded in rapidly
adjusting to these technological forces; the accelerated development
of new industrial (and agricultural) technology is complicating
already grim environmental problems

Industrial production growth rate: 6% (2000 est.)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  NA%

hydro:  NA%

nuclear:  NA%

other:  NA%

Exports: $6 trillion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Exports - commodities: the whole range of industrial and
agricultural goods and services

Exports - partners: in value, about 75% of exports from the
developed countries

Imports: $6 trillion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Imports - commodities: the whole range of industrial and
agricultural goods and services

Imports - partners: in value, about 75% of imports by the developed
countries

Debt - external: $2 trillion for less developed countries (2000 est.)

Economic aid - recipient: traditional worldwide foreign aid $50
billion (1997 est.)



World    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: NA

Telephones - mobile cellular: NA

Telephone system: general assessment:  NA

domestic:  NA

international:  NA

Radio broadcast stations: AM NA, FM NA, shortwave NA

Radios: NA

Television broadcast stations: NA

Televisions: NA

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 10,350 (2000 est.)

Internet users: 407.1 million (2000 est.)



World    Transportation

Railways: total:  1,201,337 km includes about 190,000 to 195,000 km
of electrified routes of which 147,760 km are in Europe, 24,509 km
in the Far East, 11,050 km in Africa, 4,223 km in South America, and
4,160 km in North America; note - fastest speed in daily service is
300 km/hr attained by France's Societe Nationale des Chemins-de-Fer
Francais (SNCF) Le Train a Grande Vitesse (TGV) - Atlantique line

broad gauge:  251,153 km

standard gauge:  710,754 km

narrow gauge:  239,430 km

Highways: total:  NA km

paved:  NA km

unpaved:  NA km

Ports and harbors: Chiba, Houston, Kawasaki, Kobe, Marseille, Mina'
al Ahmadi (Kuwait), New Orleans, New York, Rotterdam, Yokohama



World    Military

Military expenditures - dollar figure: aggregate real expenditure on
arms worldwide in 1999 remained at approximately the 1998 level,
about three-quarters of a trillion dollars (1999 est.)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: roughly 2% of gross world
product (1999 est.)

======================================================================

@Yemen




Yemen    Introduction

Background: North Yemen became independent of the Ottoman Empire in
1918. The British, who had set up a protectorate area around the
southern port of Aden in the 19th century, withdrew in 1967 from
what became South Yemen. Three years later, the southern government
adopted a Marxist orientation. The massive exodus of hundreds of
thousands of Yemenis from the south to the north contributed to two
decades of hostility between the states. The two countries were
formally unified as the Republic of Yemen in 1990. A southern
secessionist movement in 1994 was quickly subdued. In 2000, Saudi
Arabia and Yemen agreed to a delimitation of their border.



Yemen    Geography

Location: Middle East, bordering the Arabian Sea, Gulf of Aden, and
Red Sea, between Oman and Saudi Arabia

Geographic coordinates: 15 00 N, 48 00 E

Map references: Middle East

Area: total:  527,970 sq km

land:  527,970 sq km

water:  0 sq km

note:  includes Perim, Socotra, the former Yemen Arab Republic (YAR
or North Yemen), and the former People's Democratic Republic of
Yemen (PDRY or South Yemen)

Area - comparative: slightly larger than twice the size of Wyoming

Land boundaries: total:  1,746 km

border countries:  Oman 288 km, Saudi Arabia 1,458 km

Coastline: 1,906 km

Maritime claims: contiguous zone:  24 NM

continental shelf:  200 NM or to the edge of the continental margin

exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

territorial sea:  12 NM

Climate: mostly desert; hot and humid along west coast; temperate in
western mountains affected by seasonal monsoon; extraordinarily hot,
dry, harsh desert in east

Terrain: narrow coastal plain backed by flat-topped hills and rugged
mountains; dissected upland desert plains in center slope into the
desert interior of the Arabian Peninsula

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Arabian Sea 0 m

highest point:  Jabal an Nabi Shu'ayb 3,760 m

Natural resources: petroleum, fish, rock salt, marble, small
deposits of coal, gold, lead, nickel, and copper, fertile soil in
west

Land use: arable land:  3%

permanent crops:  13%

permanent pastures:  33.5%

forests and woodland:  4%

other:  46.5% (1999)

Irrigated land: 5,674 sq km (1999)

Natural hazards: sandstorms and dust storms in summer

Environment - current issues: very limited natural fresh water
resources; inadequate supplies of potable water; overgrazing; soil
erosion; desertification

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental
Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer
Protection

signed, but not ratified:  Nuclear Test Ban

Geography - note: strategic location on Bab el Mandeb, the strait
linking the Red Sea and the Gulf of Aden, one of world's most active
shipping lanes



Yemen    People

Population: 18,078,035 (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  47.21% (male 4,340,436; female 4,195,076)

15-64 years:  49.79% (male 4,598,301; female 4,402,402)

65 years and over:  3% (male 274,202; female 267,618) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 3.38% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 43.36 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 9.58 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.03 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  1.02 male(s)/female

total population:  1.04 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 68.53 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  60.21 years

male:  58.45 years

female:  62.05 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 6.97 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 0.01% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: NA

HIV/AIDS - deaths: NA

Nationality: noun:  Yemeni(s)

adjective:  Yemeni

Ethnic groups: predominantly Arab; but also Afro-Arab, South Asians,
Europeans

Religions: Muslim including Shaf'i (Sunni) and Zaydi (Shi'a), small
numbers of Jewish, Christian, and Hindu

Languages: Arabic

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  38%

male:  53%

female:  26% (1990 est.)



Yemen    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Republic of Yemen

conventional short form:  Yemen

local long form:  Al Jumhuriyah al Yamaniyah

local short form:  Al Yaman

Government type: republic

Capital: Sanaa

Administrative divisions: 17 governorates (muhafazat, singular -
muhafazah); Abyan, 'Adan, Al Bayda', Al Hudaydah, Al Jawf, Al
Mahrah, Al Mahwit, 'Ataq, Dhamar, Hadhramawt, Hajjah, Ibb, Lahij,
Ma'rib, Sa'dah, San'a', Ta'izz

note:  there may be three more governorates: Al Daleh, Shabwah, and
the capital city of Sana'a

Independence: 22 May 1990, Republic of Yemen was established with
the merger of the Yemen Arab Republic [Yemen (Sanaa) or North Yemen]
and the Marxist-dominated People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
[Yemen (Aden) or South Yemen]; previously North Yemen had become
independent on NA November 1918 (from the Ottoman Empire) and South
Yemen had become independent on 30 November 1967 (from the UK)

National holiday: Unification Day, 22 May (1990)

Constitution: 16 May 1991; amended 29 September 1994 and February
2001

Legal system: based on Islamic law, Turkish law, English common law,
and local tribal customary law; has not accepted compulsory ICJ
jurisdiction

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Field Marshall Ali
Abdallah SALIH (since 22 May 1990, the former president of North
Yemen, assumed office upon the merger of North and South Yemen);
Vice President Maj. Gen. Abd al-Rab Mansur al-HADI (since 3 October
1994)

head of government:  Prime Minister Abd al-Qadir BA JAMAL (since 4
April 2001)

cabinet:  Council of Ministers appointed by the president on the
advice of the prime minister

elections:  president elected by direct, popular vote for a
five-year term (a new constitution amendment extends the term by two
years to a seven-year term); election last held 23 September 1999
(next to be held NA 2006); vice president appointed by the
president; prime minister and deputy prime ministers appointed by
the president

election results:  Ali Abdallah SALIH elected president; percent of
vote: Ali Abdallah SALIH 96.3%, Najeeb Qahtan AL-SHAABI 3.7%

Legislative branch: a new constitutional amendment ratified on 20
February 2001 created a bicameral legislature consisting of a Shura
Council (111 seats; members appointed by the president) and a House
of Representatives (301 seats; members elected by popular vote to
serve six-year terms)

elections:  last held 27 April 1997 (next to be held 27 April 2003)

election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
GPC 189, Islah 52, Nasserite Unionist Party 3, National Arab
Socialist Baath Party 2, independents 54, election pending 1; latest
seats by party: GPC 223, Islah 64, Nasserite Unionist Party 3,
National Arab Socialist Baath Party 2, YSP 2, independents 7

Judicial branch: Supreme Court

Political parties and leaders: there are over 12 political parties
active in Yemen, some of the more prominent are: General People's
Congress or GPC [President Ali Abdallah SALIH]; Islamic Reform
Grouping or Islah [Shaykh Abdallah bin Husayn al-AHMAR]; National
Arab Socialist Baath Party [Dr. Qassim SALAAM]; Nasserite Unionist
Party [Abdel Malik al-MAKHLAFI]; Yemeni Socialist Party or YSP [Ali
Salih MUQBIL]

note:  President SALIH's General People's Congress or GPC won a
landslide victory in the April 1997 legislative election and no
longer governs in coalition with Shaykh Abdallah bin Husayn
al-AHMAR's Islamic Reform Grouping or Islah - the two parties had
been in coalition since the end of the civil war in 1994; the YSP, a
loyal opposition party, boycotted the April 1997 legislative
election, but announced that it would participate in Yemen's first
local elections to be held in February 2001; these local elections
aim to decentralize political power and are a key element of the
government's political reform program

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: ACC, AFESD, AL, AMF, CAEU,
CCC, ESCWA, FAO, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC,
IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM, ITU, NAM, OAS
(observer), OIC, OPCW, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WFTU, WHO,
WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO (observer)

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Abd al-Wahhab Abdallah al-HAJRI

chancery:  Suite 705, 2600 Virginia Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20037

telephone:  [1] (202) 965-4760

FAX:  [1] (202) 337-2017

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Barbara K. BODINE

embassy:  Dhahar Himyar Zone, Sheraton Hotel District, Sanaa

mailing address:  P. O. Box 22347, Sanaa

telephone:  [967] (1) 303-161

FAX:  [967] (1) 303-182

Flag description: three equal horizontal bands of red (top), white,
and black; similar to the flag of Syria which has two green stars
and of Iraq which has three green stars (plus an Arabic inscription)
in a horizontal line centered in the white band; also similar to the
flag of Egypt which has a heraldic eagle centered in the white band



Yemen    Economy

Economy - overview: Yemen, one of the poorest countries in the Arab
world, reported strong growth in the mid-1990s with the onset of oil
production, but was harmed by low oil prices in 1998. Yemen has
embarked on an IMF-supported structural adjustment program designed
to modernize and streamline the economy, which has led to foreign
debt relief and restructuring. Aided by higher oil prices in
1999-2000, Yemen worked to maintain tight control over spending and
implement additional components of the IMF program. A high
population growth rate of nearly 3.4% and internal political
dissension complicate the government's task.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $14.4 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 6% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $820 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  20%

industry:  42%

services:  38% (1998)

Population below poverty line: 19% (1992 est.)

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:
2.3%

highest 10%:  30.8% (1992)

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 10% (2000 est.)

Labor force: NA

Labor force - by occupation: most people are employed in agriculture
and herding; services, construction, industry, and commerce account
for less than one-fourth of the labor force

Unemployment rate: 30% (1995 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $3 billion

expenditures:  $3.1 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
(2001 est.)

Industries: crude oil production and petroleum refining; small-scale
production of cotton textiles and leather goods; food processing;
handicrafts; small aluminum products factory; cement

Industrial production growth rate: NA%

Electricity - production: 2.4 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  100%

hydro:  0%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 2.232 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 0 kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: grain, fruits, vegetables, pulses, qat
(mildly narcotic shrub), coffee, cotton; dairy products, livestock
(sheep, goats, cattle, camels), poultry; fish

Exports: $4.2 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Exports - commodities: crude oil, coffee, dried and salted fish

Exports - partners: Thailand 34%, China 26%, South Korea 14%, Japan
3% (1999)

Imports: $2.7 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Imports - commodities: food and live animals, machinery and equipment

Imports - partners: Saudi Arabia 10%, UAE 8%, US 7%, France 7%,
Italy 6% (1999)

Debt - external: $4.4 billion (2000)

Economic aid - recipient: $176.1 million (1995)

Currency: Yemeni rial (YER)

Currency code: YER

Exchange rates: Yemeni rials per US dollar - 164.590 (October 2000),
160.683 (2000), 155.718 (1999), 135.882 (1998), 129.281 (1997),
94.157 (1996)

Fiscal year: calendar year



Yemen    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 291,359 (1999)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 32,042 (2000)

Telephone system: general assessment:  since unification in 1990,
efforts have been made to create a national telecommunications
network

domestic:  the national network consists of microwave radio relay,
cable, tropospheric scatter, and GSM cellular mobile telephone
systems

international:  satellite earth stations - 3 Intelsat (2 Indian
Ocean and 1 Atlantic Ocean), 1 Intersputnik (Atlantic Ocean region),
and 2 Arabsat; microwave radio relay to Saudi Arabia and Djibouti

Radio broadcast stations: AM 6, FM 1, shortwave 2 (1998)

Radios: 1.05 million (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 7 (plus several low-power repeaters)
(1997)

Televisions: 470,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .ye

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 1 (2000)

Internet users: 12,000 (2000)



Yemen    Transportation

Railways: 0 km

Highways: total:  69,263 km

paved:  9,963 km

unpaved:  59,300 km (1999)

Waterways: none

Pipelines: crude oil 644 km; petroleum products 32 km

Ports and harbors: Aden, Al Hudaydah, Al Mukalla, As Salif, Mocha,
Nishtun

Merchant marine: total:  4 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 15,075
GRT/23,562 DWT

ships by type:  cargo 1, petroleum tanker 3 (2000 est.)

Airports: 50 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  13

over 3,047 m:  2

2,438 to 3,047 m:  8

1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

914 to 1,523 m:  1

under 914 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  37

over 3,047 m:  2

2,438 to 3,047 m:  9

1,524 to 2,437 m:  8

914 to 1,523 m:  13

under 914 m:  5 (2000 est.)



Yemen    Military

Military branches: Army, Navy, Coast Guard, Air Force, Air Defense
Forces, Presidential Guards, paramilitary (includes Police)

Military manpower - military age: 14 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  4,103,093 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
2,303,257 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  238,690
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $414 million (FY99)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 7.6% (FY99)



Yemen    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: a June 2000 treaty delimited the boundary
with Saudi Arabia, but final demarcation requires adjustments based
on tribal considerations

======================================================================

@Yugoslavia




Yugoslavia    Introduction

Background: The Kingdom of Serbs, Croats, and Slovenes was formed in
1918; its name was changed to Yugoslavia in 1929. Occupation by Nazi
Germany in 1941 was resisted by various partisan bands that fought
themselves as well as the invaders. The group headed by Marshal TITO
took full control upon German expulsion in 1945. Although communist
in name, his new government successfully steered its own path
between the Warsaw Pact nations and the West for the next four and a
half decades. In the early 1990s, post-TITO Yugoslavia began to
unravel along ethnic lines: Slovenia, Croatia, and The Former
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia all declared their independence in
1991; Bosnia and Herzegovina in 1992. The remaining republics of
Serbia and Montenegro declared a new "Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia" in 1992 and, under President Slobodan MILOSEVIC, Serbia
led various military intervention efforts to unite Serbs in
neighboring republics into a "Greater Serbia." All of these efforts
were ultimately unsuccessful. In 1999, massive expulsions by Serbs
of ethnic Albanians living in the autonomous republic of Kosovo
provoked an international response, including the NATO bombing of
Serbia and the stationing of NATO and Russian peacekeepers in
Kosovo. Blatant attempts to manipulate presidential balloting in
October of 2000 were followed by massive nationwide demonstrations
and strikes that saw the election winner, Vojislav KOSTUNICA,
replace MILOSEVIC.



Yugoslavia    Geography

Location: Southeastern Europe, bordering the Adriatic Sea, between
Albania and Bosnia and Herzegovina

Geographic coordinates: 44 00 N, 21 00 E

Map references: Europe

Area: total:  102,350 sq km

land:  102,136 sq km

water:  214 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly smaller than Kentucky

Land boundaries: total:  2,246 km

border countries:  Albania 287 km, Bosnia and Herzegovina 527 km,
Bulgaria 318 km, Croatia (north) 241 km, Croatia (south) 25 km,
Hungary 151 km, The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia 221 km,
Romania 476 km

Coastline: 199 km

Maritime claims: NA

Climate: in the north, continental climate (cold winters and hot,
humid summers with well distributed rainfall); central portion,
continental and Mediterranean climate; to the south, Adriatic
climate along the coast, hot, dry summers and autumns and relatively
cold winters with heavy snowfall inland

Terrain: extremely varied; to the north, rich fertile plains; to the
east, limestone ranges and basins; to the southeast, ancient
mountains and hills; to the southwest, extremely high shoreline with
no islands off the coast

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Adriatic Sea 0 m

highest point:  Daravica 2,656 m

Natural resources: oil, gas, coal, antimony, copper, lead, zinc,
nickel, gold, pyrite, chrome, hydropower, arable land

Land use: arable land:  40%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  20.7%

forests and woodland:  17.3%

other:  22% (1998 est.)

Irrigated land: NA sq km

Natural hazards: destructive earthquakes

Environment - current issues: pollution of coastal waters from
sewage outlets, especially in tourist-related areas such as Kotor;
air pollution around Belgrade and other industrial cities; water
pollution from industrial wastes dumped into the Sava which flows
into the Danube

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Air Pollution,
Climate Change, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping,
Marine Life Conservation, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection,
Ship Pollution, Wetlands

signed, but not ratified:  Biodiversity

Geography - note: controls one of the major land routes from Western
Europe to Turkey and the Near East; strategic location along the
Adriatic coast



Yugoslavia    People

Population: 10,677,290

note:  all data dealing with population is subject to considerable
error because of the dislocations caused by military action and
ethnic cleansing (July 2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  19.8% (male 1,095,905; female 1,024,123)

15-64 years:  65.3% (male 3,415,728; female 3,553,343)

65 years and over:  14.9% (male 681,559; female 906,632) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: -0.27% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 12.61 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 10.54 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: -4.71 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.08 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.08 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  0.96 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.75 male(s)/female

total population:  0.95 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 17.42 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  73.5 years

male:  70.57 years

female:  76.67 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 1.75 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: NA%

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: NA

HIV/AIDS - deaths: NA

Nationality: noun:  Serb(s); Montenegrin(s)

adjective:  Serbian; Montenegrin

Ethnic groups: Serb 62.6%, Albanian 16.5%, Montenegrin 5%, Hungarian
3.3%, other 12.6% (1991)

Religions: Orthodox 65%, Muslim 19%, Roman Catholic 4%, Protestant
1%, other 11%

Languages: Serbian 95%, Albanian 5%

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

total population:  93%

male:  97.2%

female:  88.9% (1991)



Yugoslavia    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Federal Republic of Yugoslavia

conventional short form:  Yugoslavia

local long form:  Savezna Republika Jugoslavija

local short form:  Jugoslavija

Government type: republic

Capital: Belgrade

Administrative divisions: 2 republics (republike, singular -
republika); and 2 nominally autonomous provinces* (autonomn
pokrajine, singular - autonomna pokrajina); Kosovo*, Montenegro,
Serbia, Vojvodina*

Independence: 27 April 1992 (Federal Republic of Yugoslavia or FRY
formed as self-proclaimed successor to the Socialist Federal
Republic of Yugoslavia or SFRY)

National holiday: Republic Day, 29 November

Constitution: 27 April 1992

Legal system: based on civil law system

Suffrage: 16 years of age, if employed; 18 years of age, universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Vojislav KOSTUNICA
(since 7 October 2000)

head of government:  Prime Minister Dragisa PESIC (since 24 July
2001); Deputy Prime Minister Miroljub LABUS (since 25 January 2001)

cabinet:  Federal Executive Council

elections:  president elected by direct popular vote for up to two,
four-year terms; election last held 24 September 2000 (next to be
held NA 2004); prime minister appointed by the president

election results:  Vojislav KOSTUNICA elected president; percent of
vote - Vojislav KOSTUNICA 55%, Slobodan MILOSEVIC 35%

Legislative branch: bicameral Federal Assembly or Savezna Skupstina
consists of the Chamber of Republics or Vece Republika (40 seats -
20 Serbian, 20 Montenegrin; members distributed on the basis of
party representation in the republican assemblies to serve four-year
terms; note - the Assembly passed a new constitutional amendment
calling for direct elections for the deputies to the upper chamber)
and the Chamber of Citizens or Vece Gradjana (138 seats - 108
Serbian with half elected by constituency majorities and half by
proportional representation, 30 Montenegrin with six elected by
constituency and 24 proportionally; members serve four-year terms)

elections:  Chamber of Republics - last held 24 September 2000 (next
to be held NA 2004); Chamber of Citizens - last held 24 September
2000 (next to be held NA 2004)

election results:  Chamber of Republics - percent of vote by party -
NA%; seats by party - SNP 19, DOS 10, SPS/JUL 7, SRS 2, SPO 1, SNS
1; note - seats are filled on a proportional basis to reflect the
composition of the legislatures of the republics of Montenegro and
Serbia; since 1998 Serbia has effectively barred Montenegro from its
constitutional right to delegate deputies to the Chamber of
Republics; Chamber of Citizens - percent of vote by party - NA%;
seats by party - DOS 55, SPS/JUL 46, SNP 28, SRS 4, SNS 2, other 3

Judicial branch: Federal Court or Savezni Sud; Constitutional Court;
judges for both courts are elected by the Federal Assembly for
nine-year terms

Political parties and leaders: Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians or
SVM [Jozsef KASZA]; Civic Alliance of Serbia or GSS [Vesna PESIC];
Coalition Sandzak [Rasim JAJIC]; Coalition Sumadija [Branislav
KOVACEVIC]; Democratic Alternative of DA [Nebojsa COVIC]; Democratic
Center or DC [Dragoljub MICUNOVIC]; Democratic Christian Party of
Serbia of DHSS [Vladan BATIC]; Democratic League of Kosovo or LDK
[Dr. Ibrahim RUGOVA, president]; Democratic Opposition of Serbia or
DOS [leader NA]; Democratic Party or DS [Zoran DJINDJIC]; Democratic
Party of Serbia or DSS [Vojislav KOSTUNICA]; Democratic Party of
Socialists of Montenegro or DPS [Milo DJUKANOVIC]; Movement for a
Democratic Serbia or PDS [Momcilo PERISIC]; New Democracy or ND
[Dusan MIHAJLOVIC]; New Serbia [Velimir ILIC and Milan St. PROTIC];
People's Party of Montenegro or NS [Dragan SOC]; Serb People's Party
or SNS [leader NA]; Serbian Radical Party or SRS [Vojislav SESELJ];
Serbian Renewal Movement or SPO [Vuk DRASKOVIC, president]; Serbian
Socialist Party or SPS (former Communist Party) [Slobodan
MILOSEVIC]; Social Democracy or SD [Vuk OBRADOVIC]; Social
Democratic Union or SDU [Zarko KORAC]; Socialist People's Party of
Montenegro or SNP [Momir BULATOVIC]; Yugoslav United Left or JUL
[Ljubisa RISTIC]

Political pressure groups and leaders: Alliance for the Future of
Kosovo or AAK [leader RAMUSH]; Group of 17 Independent Economists or
G-17 [leader NA]; National Movement for the Liberation of Kosovo or
LKCK [Sabit GASHI]; Otpor Student Resistance Movement [leader NA];
Political Council for Presevo, Meveda and Bujanovac or PCPMB [leader
NA]; The People's Movement for Kosovo or LPK [leader NA]

International organization participation: BIS, CE (guest), FAO
(applicant), G- 9, G-15, G-24, G-77, IAEA, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, ICRM,
IFAD, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat, IOC, IOM
(observer), ISO, ITU, NAM, OPCW, OSCE, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO,
UPU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTrO (observer)

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Milan PROTIC

chancery:  2410 California St. NW, Washington, DC 20008

note:  Yugoslavia restored its diplomatic mission in the US in
November 2000 after temporarily ceasing its operations at the
beginning of the March 1999 NATO bombing campaign

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
(vacant); Charge d'Affaires William MONTGOMERY

embassy:  Kneza Milosa 30, 11000 Belgrade

note:  the US reestablished relations with Yugoslavia 17 November
2000; the embassy is not scheduled to open for business until
extensive renovations have been completed

Flag description: three equal horizontal bands of blue (top), white,
and red



Yugoslavia    Economy

Economy - overview: The swift collapse of the Yugoslav federation in
1991 was followed by highly destructive warfare, the destabilization
of republic boundaries, and the breakup of important interrepublic
trade flows. Output in Yugoslavia dropped by half in 1992-93. Like
the other former Yugoslav republics, it had depended on its sister
republics for large amounts of energy and manufactures. Wide
differences in climate, mineral resources, and levels of technology
among the republics accentuated this interdependence, as did the
communist practice of concentrating much industrial output in a
small number of giant plants. The breakup of many of the trade
links, the sharp drop in output as industrial plants lost suppliers
and markets, and the destruction of physical assets in the fighting
all have contributed to the economic difficulties of the republics.
Hyperinflation ended with the establishment of a new currency unit
in June 1993; prices were relatively stable from 1995 through 1997,
but inflationary pressures resurged in 1998. Reliable statistics
continue to be hard to come by, and the GDP estimate is extremely
rough. The economic boom anticipated by the government after the
suspension of UN sanctions in December 1995 has failed to
materialize. Government mismanagement of the economy is largely to
blame, but the damage to Yugoslavia's infrastructure and industry by
the NATO bombing during the war in Kosovo have added to problems.
All sanctions now have been lifted. Yugoslavia is in the first stage
of economic reform. Severe electricity shortages are chronic, the
result of lack of investment by former regimes, depleted hydropower
reservoirs due to extended drought, and lack of funds. GDP growth in
2000 was perhaps 15%, which made up for a large part of the 20%
decline of 1999.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $24.2 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 15% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $2,300 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  20%

industry:  50%

services:  30% (1998 est.)

Population below poverty line: NA%

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:  NA%

highest 10%:  NA%

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 42% (1999 est.)

Labor force: 1.6 million (1999 est.)

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture NA%, industry NA%, services
NA%

Unemployment rate: 30% (2000 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $NA

expenditures:  $NA, including capital expenditures of $NA

Industries: machine building (aircraft, trucks, and automobiles;
tanks and weapons; electrical equipment; agricultural machinery);
metallurgy (steel, aluminum, copper, lead, zinc, chromium, antimony,
bismuth, cadmium); mining (coal, bauxite, nonferrous ore, iron ore,
limestone); consumer goods (textiles, footwear, foodstuffs,
appliances); electronics, petroleum products, chemicals, and
pharmaceuticals

Industrial production growth rate: -22% (1999 est.)

Electricity - production: 34.455 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  70%

hydro:  30%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 33.006 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 960 million kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 1.923 billion kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: cereals, fruits, vegetables, tobacco,
olives; cattle, sheep, goats

Exports: $1.5 billion (1999)

Exports - commodities: manufactured goods, food and live animals,
raw materials

Exports - partners: Bosnia and Herzegovina, Italy, The Former
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Germany (1998)

Imports: $3.3 billion (1999)

Imports - commodities: machinery and transport equipment, fuels and
lubricants, manufactured goods, chemicals, food and live animals,
raw materials

Imports - partners: Germany, Italy, Russia, The Former Yugoslav
Republic of Macedonia (1998)

Debt - external: $14.1 billion (1999 est.)

Economic aid - recipient: $NA

Currency: new Yugoslav dinar (YUM); note - in Montenegro the German
deutsche mark is legal tender (1999)

Currency code: YUM

Exchange rates: new Yugoslav dinars per US dollar - official rate:
10.0 (December 1998), 5.85 (December 1997), 5.02 (September 1996),
1.5 (early 1995); black market rate: 14.5 (December 1998), 8.9
(December 1997), 2 to 3 (early 1995)

Fiscal year: calendar year



Yugoslavia    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 2.017 million (1995)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 87,000 (1997)

Telephone system: general assessment:  NA

domestic:  NA

international:  satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 113, FM 194, shortwave 2 (1998)

Radios: 3.15 million (1997)

Television broadcast stations: more than 771 (including 86 strong
stations and 685 low-power stations, plus 20 repeaters in the
principal networks; also numerous local or private stations in
Serbia and Vojvodina) (1997)

Televisions: 2.75 million (1997)

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 9 (2000)

Internet users: 80,000 (2000)



Yugoslavia    Transportation

Railways: total:  4,095 km

standard gauge:  4,095 km 1.435-m gauge (1,377 km partially
electrified since 1992)

note:  during to the 1999 Kosovo conflict, the Serbian rail system
suffered significant damage due to bridge destruction; many rail
bridges have been rebuilt, but the bridge over the Danube at Novi
Sad was still down in early 2000; however, a by-pass is available;
Montenegrin rail lines remain intact

Highways: total:  48,603 km

paved:  28,822 km (including 560 km of expressways)

unpaved:  19,781 km (1998 est.)

note:  because of the 1999 Kosovo conflict, many road bridges were
destroyed; since the end of the conflict in June 1999, there has
been an intensive program to either rebuild bridges or build by-pass
routes

Waterways: 587 km

note:  The Danube River, which connects Europe with the Black Sea,
runs through Serbia; since early 2000, a pontoon bridge, replacing a
destroyed conventional bridge, has obstructed river traffic at Novi
Sad; the obstruction can be bypassed by a canal system but
inadequate lock size limits the size of vessels which may pass (2001)

Pipelines: crude oil 415 km; petroleum products 130 km; natural gas
2,110 km

Ports and harbors: Bar, Belgrade, Kotor, Novi Sad, Pancevo, Tivat,
Zelenika

Merchant marine: total:  1 ship (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 2,437
GRT/400 DWT

ships by type:  short-sea passenger 1 (2000 est.)

Airports: 47 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  19

over 3,047 m:  2

2,438 to 3,047 m:  5

1,524 to 2,437 m:  5

914 to 1,523 m:  3

under 914 m:  4 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  28

1,524 to 2,437 m:  2

914 to 1,523 m:  12

under 914 m:  14 (2000 est.)

Heliports: 2 (2000 est.)



Yugoslavia    Military

Military branches: Army (including ground forces with border troops,
naval forces, air and air defense forces)

Military manpower - military age: 19 years of age

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  2,600,362 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
2,088,595 (2001 est.)

Military manpower - reaching military age annually: males:  82,542
(2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $760 million (FY00)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: NA%



Yugoslavia    Transnational Issues

Disputes - international: Albanian majority in Kosovo seeks
independence from Yugoslavia; Croatia and Yugoslavia are negotiating
the status of the strategically important Prevlaka Peninsula, which
is currently under a UN military observer mission (UNMOP); the
February 2001 agreement with the Former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia settled alignment of boundary, stipulating implementation
within two years

Illicit drugs: transshipment point for Southwest Asian heroin moving
to Western Europe on the Balkan route

======================================================================

@Zambia




Zambia    Introduction

Background: The territory of Northern Rhodesia was administered by
the South Africa Company from 1891 until takeover by the UK in 1923.
During the 1920s and 1930s, advances in mining spurred development
and immigration. The name was changed to Zambia upon independence in
1964. In the 1980s and 1990s, declining copper prices and a
prolonged drought hurt the economy. Elections in 1991 brought an end
to one-party rule, but the subsequent vote in 1996 saw blatant
harassment of opposition parties.



Zambia    Geography

Location: Southern Africa, east of Angola

Geographic coordinates: 15 00 S, 30 00 E

Map references: Africa

Area: total:  752,614 sq km

land:  740,724 sq km

water:  11,890 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly larger than Texas

Land boundaries: total:  5,664 km

border countries:  Angola 1,110 km, Democratic Republic of the Congo
1,930 km, Malawi 837 km, Mozambique 419 km, Namibia 233 km, Tanzania
338 km, Zimbabwe 797 km

Coastline: 0 km (landlocked)

Maritime claims: none (landlocked)

Climate: tropical; modified by altitude; rainy season (October to
April)

Terrain: mostly high plateau with some hills and mountains

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  Zambezi river 329 m

highest point:  unnamed location in Mafinga Hills 2,301 m

Natural resources: copper, cobalt, zinc, lead, coal, emeralds, gold,
silver, uranium, hydropower

Land use: arable land:  7%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  40%

forests and woodland:  39%

other:  14% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 460 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: tropical storms (November to April)

Environment - current issues: air pollution and resulting acid rain
in the mineral extraction and refining region; chemical runoff into
watersheds; poaching seriously threatens rhinoceros, elephant,
antelope, and large cat populations; deforestation; soil erosion;
desertification; lack of adequate water treatment presents human
health risks

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous
Wastes, Law of the Sea, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection,
Wetlands

signed, but not ratified:  Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol

Geography - note: landlocked



Zambia    People

Population: 9,770,199

note:  estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
life expectancy, higher infant mortality and death rates, lower
population and growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  47.36% (male 2,324,128; female 2,303,349)

15-64 years:  50.14% (male 2,433,250; female 2,465,747)

65 years and over:  2.5% (male 105,694; female 138,031) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 1.93% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 41.46 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 21.97 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: -0.16 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.03 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.01 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  0.99 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  0.77 male(s)/female

total population:  0.99 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 90.89 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  37.29 years

male:  37.06 years

female:  37.53 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 5.53 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 19.95% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 870,000 (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: 99,000 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Zambian(s)

adjective:  Zambian

Ethnic groups: African 98.7%, European 1.1%, other 0.2%

Religions: Christian 50%-75%, Muslim and Hindu 24%-49%, indigenous
beliefs 1%

Languages: English (official), major vernaculars - Bemba, Kaonda,
Lozi, Lunda, Luvale, Nyanja, Tonga, and about 70 other indigenous
languages

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write English

total population:  78.2%

male:  85.6%

female:  71.3% (1995 est.)



Zambia    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Republic of Zambia

conventional short form:  Zambia

former:  Northern Rhodesia

Government type: republic

Capital: Lusaka

Administrative divisions: 9 provinces; Central, Copperbelt, Eastern,
Luapula, Lusaka, Northern, North-Western, Southern, Western

Independence: 24 October 1964 (from UK)

National holiday: Independence Day, 24 October (1964)

Constitution: 2 August 1991

Legal system: based on English common law and customary law;
judicial review of legislative acts in an ad hoc constitutional
council; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  President Frederick CHILUBA
(since 2 November 1991); Vice President Enoch KAVINDELE (since 4 May
2001); note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
government

head of government:  President Frederick CHILUBA (since 2 November
1991); Vice President Enoch KAVINDELE (since 4 May 2001); note - the
president is both the chief of state and head of government

cabinet:  Cabinet appointed by the president from among the members
of the National Assembly

elections:  president elected by popular vote for a five-year term;
election last held 18 November 1996 (next to be held NA October
2001); vice president appointed by the president

election results:  Frederick CHILUBA reelected president; percent of
vote - Frederick CHILUBA 72.5%, Dean MUNGO'MBA 12.6%, Humphrey
MULEMBA 7%, Akashambatwa LEWANIKA 4.7%, Chama CHAKOMBOKA 3.2%

Legislative branch: unicameral National Assembly (150 seats; members
are elected by popular vote to serve five-year terms)

elections:  last held 18 November 1996 (next to be held NA December
2001)

election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
MMD 131, NP 5, Zadeco 2, AZ 2, independents 10

Judicial branch: Supreme Court (the final court of appeal; justices
are appointed by the president); High Court (has unlimited
jurisdiction to hear civil and criminal cases)

Political parties and leaders: Agenda for Zambia or AZ [Akashambatwa
LEWANIKA]; Labor Party or LP [Chibiza MFUNI]; Liberal Progressive
Front or LPF [Roger CHONGWE, president]; Movement for Democratic
Process or MDP [Chama CHAKOM BOKA]; Movement for Multiparty
Democracy or MMD [Frederick CHILUBA]; National Party or NP [Daniel
LISULO]; Republican Party or RP [Ben MWILA]; Social Democratic Party
or SDP [Gwendoline Konie]; United National Independence Party or
UNIP [Tilyenji KAUNDA]; United Party for National Development or
UPND [Anderson MAZOKA]; Zambia Democratic Congress or Zadeco [Eden
JERRY, acting head]

Political pressure groups and leaders: NA

International organization participation: ACP, AfDB, C, CCC, ECA,
FAO, G-19, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC,
IFRCS, ILO, IMF, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM, ITU, MONUC, NAM, OAU,
OPCW, PCA, SADC, UN, UNAMSIL, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNMEE, UNMIK,
UNTAET, UPU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Atan SHANSONGA

chancery:  2419 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008

telephone:  [1] (202) 265-9717 through 9719

FAX:  [1] (202) 332-0826

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
David B. DUNN

embassy:  corner of Independence and United Nations Avenues

mailing address:  P. O. Box 31617, Lusaka

telephone:  [260] (1) 250-955

FAX:  [260] (1) 252-225

Flag description: green with a panel of three vertical bands of red
(hoist side), black, and orange below a soaring orange eagle, on the
outer edge of the flag



Zambia    Economy

Economy - overview: Despite progress in privatization and budgetary
reform, Zambia's economy has a long way to go. Privatization of
government-owned copper mines relieved the government from covering
mammoth losses generated by the industry and greatly improved the
chances for copper mining to return to profitability and spur
economic growth. In late 2000, Zambia was determined to be eligible
for debt relief under the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC)
initiative. Inflation and unemployment rates remain high, but the
GDP growth rate should rise in 2001.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $8.5 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: 4% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $880 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  18%

industry:  27%

services:  55% (1999 est.)

Population below poverty line: 86% (1993 est.)

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:
1.6%

highest 10%:  39.2% (1995)

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 27.3% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 3.4 million

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture 85%, industry 6%, services
9%

Unemployment rate: 50% (2000 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $900 million

expenditures:  $1 billion, including capital expenditures of NA
million (1999 est.)

Industries: copper mining and processing, construction, foodstuffs,
beverages, chemicals, textiles, fertilizer

Industrial production growth rate: 6.1% (2000 est.)

Electricity - production: 7.642 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  0.55%

hydro:  99.45%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 5.926 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 1.6 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 419 million kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: corn, sorghum, rice, peanuts, sunflower
seed, vegetables, flowers, tobacco, cotton, sugarcane, cassava
(tapioca); cattle, goats, pigs, poultry, milk, eggs, hides; coffee

Exports: $928 million (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Exports - commodities: copper, cobalt, electricity, tobacco

Exports - partners: Japan, Saudi Arabia, India, Thailand, South
Africa, US, Malaysia (1997)

Imports: $1.05 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Imports - commodities: machinery, transportation equipment, fuels,
petroleum products, electricity, fertilizer; foodstuffs, clothing

Imports - partners: South Africa 48%, Saudi Arabia, UK, Zimbabwe
(1997)

Debt - external: $6.5 billion (2000)

Economic aid - recipient: $1.99 billion (1995)

Currency: Zambian kwacha (ZMK)

Currency code: ZMK

Exchange rates: Zambian kwacha per US dollar - 4,024.53 (January
2001), 3,110.84 (2000), 2,388.02 (1999), 1,862.07 (1998), 1,314.50
(1997), 1,207.90 (1996)

Fiscal year: calendar year



Zambia    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 77,935 (in addition there are about
40,000 fixed telephones in wireless local loop connections) (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 6,000 (1998)

Telephone system: general assessment:  facilities are among the best
in Sub-Saharan Africa

domestic:  high-capacity microwave radio relay connects most larger
towns and cities; several cellular telephone services in operation;
Internet service is widely available; very small aperture terminal
(VSAT) networks are operated by private firms

international:  satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat (1 Indian
Ocean and 1 Atlantic Ocean)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 19, FM 5, shortwave 4 (1998)

Radios: 1.03 million (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 9 (1997)

Televisions: 277,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .zm

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 3 (2000)

Internet users: 15,000 (2000)



Zambia    Transportation

Railways: total:  2,164 km (1995)

narrow gauge:  2,164 km 1.067-m gauge (13 km double track)

note:  the total includes 891 km of the Tanzania-Zambia Railway
Authority (TAZARA), which operates 1,860 km of 1.067-m narrow gauge
track between Dar es Salaam and Kapiri Mposhi where it connects to
the Zambia Railways system; TAZARA is not a part of the Zambia
Railways system; Zambia Railways assets are scheduled for
concessioning in 2001

Highways: total:  66,781 km

paved:  NA km

unpaved:  NA km (1997 est.)

Waterways: 2,250 km

note:  includes Lake Tanganyika and the Zambezi and Luapula rivers

Pipelines: crude oil 1,724 km

Ports and harbors: Mpulungu

Airports: 112 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  13

over 3,047 m:  1

2,438 to 3,047 m:  3

1,524 to 2,437 m:  5

914 to 1,523 m:  3

under 914 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  99

2,438 to 3,047 m:  1

1,524 to 2,437 m:  2

914 to 1,523 m:  65

under 914 m:  31 (2000 est.)



Zambia    Military

Military branches: Army, Air Force, National Service, police

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  2,246,640 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
1,193,047 (2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $76 million (FY97)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 1.8% (FY97)



Zambia    Transnational Issues

Illicit drugs: transshipment point for moderate amounts of
methaqualone, small amounts of heroin, and cocaine bound for
Southern Africa and possibly Europe; regional money-laundering center

======================================================================

@Zimbabwe




Zimbabwe    Introduction

Background: The UK annexed Southern Rhodesia from the South Africa
Company in 1923. A 1961 constitution was formulated to keep whites
in power. In 1965 the government unilaterally declared its
independence, but the UK did not recognize the act and demanded
voting rights for the black African majority in the country (then
called Rhodesia). UN sanctions and a guerrilla uprising finally led
to free elections in 1979 and independence (as Zimbabwe) in 1980.
Robert MUGABE, the nation's first prime minister, has been the
country's only ruler (as president since 1987) and has dominated the
country's political system since independence.



Zimbabwe    Geography

Location: Southern Africa, between South Africa and Zambia

Geographic coordinates: 20 00 S, 30 00 E

Map references: Africa

Area: total:  390,580 sq km

land:  386,670 sq km

water:  3,910 sq km

Area - comparative: slightly larger than Montana

Land boundaries: total:  3,066 km

border countries:  Botswana 813 km, Mozambique 1,231 km, South
Africa 225 km, Zambia 797 km

Coastline: 0 km (landlocked)

Maritime claims: none (landlocked)

Climate: tropical; moderated by altitude; rainy season (November to
March)

Terrain: mostly high plateau with higher central plateau (high
veld); mountains in east

Elevation extremes: lowest point:  junction of the Runde and Save
rivers 162 m

highest point:  Inyangani 2,592 m

Natural resources: coal, chromium ore, asbestos, gold, nickel,
copper, iron ore, vanadium, lithium, tin, platinum group metals

Land use: arable land:  7%

permanent crops:  0%

permanent pastures:  13%

forests and woodland:  23%

other:  57% (1993 est.)

Irrigated land: 1,930 sq km (1993 est.)

Natural hazards: recurring droughts; floods and severe storms are
rare

Environment - current issues: deforestation; soil erosion; land
degradation; air and water pollution; the black rhinoceros herd -
once the largest concentration of the species in the world - has
been significantly reduced by poaching

Environment - international agreements: party to:  Biodiversity,
Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species, Law of the Sea,
Ozone Layer Protection

signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Geography - note: landlocked



Zimbabwe    People

Population: 11,365,366

note:  estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
life expectancy, higher infant mortality and death rates, lower
population and growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
2001 est.)

Age structure: 0-14 years:  38.68% (male 2,223,332; female 2,172,479)

15-64 years:  57.69% (male 3,319,982; female 3,236,286)

65 years and over:  3.63% (male 208,785; female 204,502) (2001 est.)

Population growth rate: 0.15% (2001 est.)

Birth rate: 24.68 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Death rate: 23.22 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Net migration rate: 0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

note:  there is a small but steady flow of Zimbabweans into South
Africa in search of better paid employment

Sex ratio: at birth:  1.03 male(s)/female

under 15 years:  1.02 male(s)/female

15-64 years:  1.03 male(s)/female

65 years and over:  1.02 male(s)/female

total population:  1.02 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Infant mortality rate: 62.61 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Life expectancy at birth: total population:  37.13 years

male:  38.51 years

female:  35.7 years (2001 est.)

Total fertility rate: 3.28 children born/woman (2001 est.)

HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate: 25.06% (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS: 1.5 million (1999 est.)

HIV/AIDS - deaths: 160,000 (1999 est.)

Nationality: noun:  Zimbabwean(s)

adjective:  Zimbabwean

Ethnic groups: African 98% (Shona 71%, Ndebele 16%, other 11%),
mixed and Asian 1%, white less than 1%

Religions: syncretic (part Christian, part indigenous beliefs) 50%,
Christian 25%, indigenous beliefs 24%, Muslim and other 1%

Languages: English (official), Shona, Sindebele (the language of the
Ndebele, sometimes called Ndebele), numerous but minor tribal
dialects

Literacy: definition:  age 15 and over can read and write English

total population:  85%

male:  90%

female:  80% (1995 est.)



Zimbabwe    Government

Country name: conventional long form:  Republic of Zimbabwe

conventional short form:  Zimbabwe

former:  Southern Rhodesia, Rhodesia

Government type: parliamentary democracy

Capital: Harare

Administrative divisions: 8 provinces and 2 cities* with provincial
status; Bulawayo*, Harare*, Manicaland, Mashonaland Central,
Mashonaland East, Mashonaland West, Masvingo, Matabeleland North,
Matabeleland South, Midlands

Independence: 18 April 1980 (from UK)

National holiday: Independence Day, 18 April (1980)

Constitution: 21 December 1979

Legal system: mixture of Roman-Dutch and English common law

Suffrage: 18 years of age; universal

Executive branch: chief of state:  Executive President Robert
Gabriel MUGABE (since 31 December 1987); Co-Vice Presidents Simon
Vengai MUZENDA (since 31 December 1987) and Joseph MSIKA (since 23
December 1999); note - the president is both the chief of state and
head of government

head of government:  Executive President Robert Gabriel MUGABE
(since 31 December 1987); Co-Vice Presidents Simon Vengai MUZENDA
(since 31 December 1987) and Joseph MSIKA (since 23 December 1999);
note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
government

cabinet:  Cabinet appointed by the president; responsible to the
House of Assembly

elections:  presidential candidates nominated with a nomination
paper signed by at least 10 registered voters (at least one from
each province) and elected by popular vote; election last held 16-17
March 1996 (next to be held NA March 2002); co-vice presidents
appointed by the president

election results:  Robert Gabriel MUGABE reelected president;
percent of electoral college vote - Robert Gabriel MUGABE 92.7%,
Abel MUZOREWA 4.8%; Ndabaningi SITHOLE 2.4%

Legislative branch: unicameral parliament, called House of Assembly
(150 seats - 120 elected by popular vote for six-year terms, 12
nominated by the president, 10 occupied by traditional chiefs chosen
by their peers, and 8 occupied by provincial governors)

elections:  last held 24-25 June 2000 (next to be held NA 2006)

election results:  percent of vote by party - ZANU-PF 47.2%, MDC
45.6%, ZANU-Ndonga 0.7%, United Parties 0.7%; seats by party -
ZANU-PF 63, MDC 56, ZANU-Ndonga 1

Judicial branch: Supreme Court; High Court

Political parties and leaders: Movement for Democratic Change or MDC
[Morgan TSVANGIRAI]; Popular Democratic Front or PDF [Austin
CHAKAODZA]; United Parties [Abel MUZOREWA]; Zimbabwe African
National Union-Ndonga or ZANU-Ndonga [Ndabaningi SITHOLE]; Zimbabwe
African National Union-Patriotic Front or ZANU-PF [Robert MUGABE];
Zimbabwe Unity Movement or ZUM [Edgar TEKERE]

Political pressure groups and leaders: National Constitutional
Assembly or NCA

International organization participation: ACP, AfDB, C, CCC, ECA,
FAO, G-15, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC,
IFRCS, ILO, IMF, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM (observer), ISO, ITU,
NAM, OAU, OPCW, PCA, SADC, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNMIK, UNTAET,
UPU, WCL, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Diplomatic representation in the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
Simbi Veke MUBAKO

chancery:  1608 New Hampshire Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20009

telephone:  [1] (202) 332-7100

FAX:  [1] (202) 483-9326

Diplomatic representation from the US: chief of mission:  Ambassador
(vacant); Charge d'Affairs Earl M. IRVING

embassy:  172 Herbert Chitepo Avenue, Harare

mailing address:  P. O. Box 3340, Harare

telephone:  [263] (4) 250-593

FAX:  [263] (4) 796487

Flag description: seven equal horizontal bands of green, yellow,
red, black, red, yellow, and green with a white isosceles triangle
edged in black with its base on the hoist side; a yellow Zimbabwe
bird is superimposed on a red five-pointed star in the center of the
triangle



Zimbabwe    Economy

Economy - overview: The government of Zimbabwe faces a wide variety
of difficult economic problems as it struggles to consolidate
earlier moves to develop a market-oriented economy. Its involvement
in the war in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, for example, has
already drained hundreds of millions of dollars from the economy.
Badly needed support from the IMF suffers delays in part because of
the country's failure to meet budgetary goals. Inflation rose from
an annual rate of 32% in 1998 to 59% in 1999 and 60% in 2000. The
economy is being steadily weakened by excessive government deficits
and AIDS; Zimbabwe has the highest rate of infection in the world.
Per capita GDP, which is twice the average of the poorer sub-Saharan
nations, will increase little if any in the near-term, and Zimbabwe
will suffer continued frustrations in developing its agricultural
and mineral resources.

GDP: purchasing power parity - $28.2 billion (2000 est.)

GDP - real growth rate: -6.1% (2000 est.)

GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $2,500 (2000 est.)

GDP - composition by sector: agriculture:  28%

industry:  32%

services:  40% (1997 est.)

Population below poverty line: 60% (1999 est.)

Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%:
1.8%

highest 10%:  46.9% (1990)

Inflation rate (consumer prices): 60% (2000 est.)

Labor force: 5.5 million (2000 est.)

Labor force - by occupation: agriculture 66%, services 24%, industry
10% (1996 est.)

Unemployment rate: 50% (2000 est.)

Budget: revenues:  $2.5 billion

expenditures:  $2.9 billion, including capital expenditures of $279
million (FY96/97 est.)

Industries: mining (coal, gold, copper, nickel, tin, clay, numerous
metallic and nonmetallic ores), steel, wood products, cement,
chemicals, fertilizer, clothing and footwear, foodstuffs, beverages

Industrial production growth rate: NA%

Electricity - production: 5.78 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel:  69.98%

hydro:  30.02%

nuclear:  0%

other:  0% (1999)

Electricity - consumption: 6.939 billion kWh (1999)

Electricity - exports: 0 kWh (1999)

Electricity - imports: 1.564 billion kWh (1999)

Agriculture - products: corn, cotton, tobacco, wheat, coffee,
sugarcane, peanuts; cattle, sheep, goats, pigs

Exports: $1.8 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Exports - commodities: tobacco 29%, gold 7%, ferroalloys 7%, cotton
5% (1999 est.)

Exports - partners: South Africa 10%, UK 9%, Malawi 8%, Botswana 8%,
Japan 7%, (1999 est.)

Imports: $1.3 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Imports - commodities: machinery and transport equipment 35%, other
manufactures 18%, chemicals 17%, fuels 14% (1999 est.)

Imports - partners: South Africa 46%, UK 6%, China 4%, Germany 4%,
US 3% (1999 est.)

Debt - external: $4.1 billion (2000 est.)

Economic aid - recipient: $200 million (2000 est.)

Currency: Zimbabwean dollar (ZWD)

Currency code: ZWD

Exchange rates: Zimbabwean dollars per US dollar - 54.9451 (January
2001), 43.2900 (2000), 38.3142 (1999), 21.4133 (1998), 11.8906
(1997), 9.9206 (1996)

Fiscal year: 1 July - 30 June



Zimbabwe    Communications

Telephones - main lines in use: 212,000 (in addition there are about
20,000 fixed telephones in wireless local loop connections) (1997)

Telephones - mobile cellular: 70,000 (1999)

Telephone system: general assessment:  system was once one of the
best in Africa, but now suffers from poor maintenance; more than
100,000 outstanding requests for connection despite an equally large
number of installed but unused main lines

domestic:  consists of microwave radio relay links, open-wire lines,
radiotelephone communication stations, fixed wireless local loop
installations, and a substantial mobile cellular network; Internet
connection is available in Harare and planned for all major towns
and for some of the smaller ones

international:  satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat; two
international digital gateway exchanges (in Harare and Gweru)

Radio broadcast stations: AM 7, FM 20 (plus 17 repeater stations),
shortwave 1 (1998)

Radios: 1.14 million (1997)

Television broadcast stations: 16 (1997)

Televisions: 370,000 (1997)

Internet country code: .zw

Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 6 (2000)

Internet users: 30,000 (1999)



Zimbabwe    Transportation

Railways: total:  2,759 km (1995)

narrow gauge:  2,759 km 1.067-m gauge (313 km electrified; 42 km
double track) (1995 est.)

Highways: total:  18,338 km

paved:  8,692 km

unpaved:  9,646 km (1996 est.)

Waterways: the Mazoe and Zambezi rivers are used for transporting
chrome ore from Harare to Mozambique

Pipelines: petroleum products 212 km

Ports and harbors: Binga, Kariba

Airports: 455 (2000 est.)

Airports - with paved runways: total:  18

over 3,047 m:  3

2,438 to 3,047 m:  2

1,524 to 2,437 m:  4

914 to 1,523 m:  9 (2000 est.)

Airports - with unpaved runways: total:  437

1,524 to 2,437 m:  4

914 to 1,523 m:  209

under 914 m:  224 (2000 est.)



Zimbabwe    Military

Military branches: Zimbabwe National Army, Air Force of Zimbabwe,
Zimbabwe Republic Police (includes Police Support Unit, Paramilitary
Police)

Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49:  2,996,631 (2001
est.)

Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49:
1,860,167 (2001 est.)

Military expenditures - dollar figure: $127 million (FY99/00)

Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 3.1% (FY99/00)



Zimbabwe    Transnational Issues

Illicit drugs: significant transit point for African cannabis and
South Asian heroin, mandrax, and methamphetamines destined for the
South African and European markets

======================================================================

@Administrative divisions



Afghanistan:
  30 provinces (velayat, singular - velayat); Badakhshan,
  Badghis, Baghlan, Balkh, Bamian, Farah, Faryab, Ghazni, Ghowr,
  Helmand, Herat, Jowzjan, Kabol, Kandahar, Kapisa, Konar, Kondoz,
  Laghman, Lowgar, Nangarhar, Nimruz, Oruzgan, Paktia, Paktika,
  Parvan, Samangan, Sar-e Pol, Takhar, Vardak, Zabol; note - there may
  be two new provinces of Nurestan (Nuristan) and Khowst

Albania:
  36 districts (rrethe, singular - rreth) and 1 municipality*
  (bashki); Berat, Bulqize, Delvine, Devoll (Bilisht), Diber
  (Peshkopi), Durres, Elbasan, Fier, Gjirokaster, Gramsh, Has (Krume),
  Kavaje, Kolonje (Erseke), Korce, Kruje, Kucove, Kukes, Kurbin,
  Lezhe, Librazhd, Lushnje, Malesi e Madhe (Koplik), Mallakaster
  (Ballsh), Mat (Burrel), Mirdite (Rreshen), Peqin, Permet, Pogradec,
  Puke, Sarande, Shkoder, Skrapar (Corovode), Tepelene, Tirane
  (Tirana), Tirane* (Tirana), Tropoje (Bajram Curri), Vlore

  note:  administrative divisions have the same names as their
  administrative centers (exceptions have the administrative center
  name following in parentheses)

Algeria:
  48 provinces (wilayas, singular - wilaya); Adrar, Ain
  Defla, Ain Temouchent, Alger, Annaba, Batna, Bechar, Bejaia, Biskra,
  Blida, Bordj Bou Arreridj, Bouira, Boumerdes, Chlef, Constantine,
  Djelfa, El Bayadh, El Oued, El Tarf, Ghardaia, Guelma, Illizi,
  Jijel, Khenchela, Laghouat, Mascara, Medea, Mila, Mostaganem,
  M'Sila, Naama, Oran, Ouargla, Oum el Bouaghi, Relizane, Saida,
  Setif, Sidi Bel Abbes, Skikda, Souk Ahras, Tamanghasset, Tebessa,
  Tiaret, Tindouf, Tipaza, Tissemsilt, Tizi Ouzou, Tlemcen

American Samoa:
  none (territory of the US); there are no first-order
  administrative divisions as defined by the US Government, but there
  are three districts and two islands* at the second order; Eastern,
  Manu'a, Rose Island*, Swains Island*, Western

Andorra:
  7 parishes (parroquies, singular - parroquia); Andorra la
  Vella, Canillo, Encamp, La Massana, Escaldes-Engordany, Ordino, Sant
  Julia de Loria

Angola:
  18 provinces (provincias, singular - provincia); Bengo,
  Benguela, Bie, Cabinda, Cuando Cubango, Cuanza Norte, Cuanza Sul,
  Cunene, Huambo, Huila, Luanda, Lunda Norte, Lunda Sul, Malanje,
  Moxico, Namibe, Uige, Zaire

Anguilla:
  none (overseas territory of the UK)

Antigua and Barbuda:
  6 parishes and 2 dependencies*; Barbuda*,
  Redonda*, Saint George, Saint John, Saint Mary, Saint Paul, Saint
  Peter, Saint Philip

Argentina:
  23 provinces (provincias, singular - provincia), and 1
  autonomous city* (distrito federal); Buenos Aires; Buenos Aires
  Capital Federal*; Catamarca; Chaco; Chubut; Cordoba; Corrientes;
  Entre Rios; Formosa; Jujuy; La Pampa; La Rioja; Mendoza; Misiones;
  Neuquen; Rio Negro; Salta; San Juan; San Luis; Santa Cruz; Santa Fe;
  Santiago del Estero; Tierra del Fuego, Antartica e Islas del
  Atlantico Sur; Tucuman

  note:  the US does not recognize any claims to Antarctica

Armenia:
  10 provinces (marzer, singular - marz) and 1 city*
  (k'aghak'ner, singular - k'aghak'); Aragatsotn, Ararat, Armavir,
  Geghark'unik', Kotayk', Lorri, Shirak, Syunik', Tavush, Vayots'
  Dzor, Yerevan*

Aruba:
  none (part of the Kingdom of the Netherlands)

Australia:
  6 states and 2 territories*; Australian Capital
  Territory*, New South Wales, Northern Territory*, Queensland, South
  Australia, Tasmania, Victoria, Western Australia

Austria:
  9 states (bundeslaender, singular - bundesland);
  Burgenland, Kaernten, Niederoesterreich, Oberoesterreich, Salzburg,
  Steiermark, Tirol, Vorarlberg, Wien

Azerbaijan:
  59 rayons (rayonlar; rayon - singular), 11 cities*
  (saharlar; sahar - singular), 1 autonomous republic** (muxtar
  respublika); Abseron Rayonu, Agcabadi Rayonu, Agdam Rayonu, Agdas
  Rayonu, Agstafa Rayonu, Agsu Rayonu, Ali Bayramli Sahari*, Astara
  Rayonu, Baki Sahari*, Balakan Rayonu, Barda Rayonu, Beylaqan Rayonu,
  Bilasuvar Rayonu, Cabrayil Rayonu, Calilabad Rayonu, Daskasan
  Rayonu, Davaci Rayonu, Fuzuli Rayonu, Gadabay Rayonu, Ganca Sahari*,
  Goranboy Rayonu, Goycay Rayonu, Haciqabul Rayonu, Imisli Rayonu,
  Ismayilli Rayonu, Kalbacar Rayonu, Kurdamir Rayonu, Lacin Rayonu,
  Lankaran Rayonu, Lankaran Sahari*, Lerik Rayonu, Masalli Rayonu,
  Mingacevir Sahari*, Naftalan Sahari*, Naxcivan Muxtar
  Respublikasi**, Neftcala Rayonu, Oguz Rayonu, Qabala Rayonu, Qax
  Rayonu, Qazax Rayonu, Qobustan Rayonu, Quba Rayonu, Qubadli Rayonu,
  Qusar Rayonu, Saatli Rayonu, Sabirabad Rayonu, Saki Rayonu, Saki
  Sahari*, Salyan Rayonu, Samaxi Rayonu, Samkir Rayonu, Samux Rayonu,
  Siyazan Rayonu, Sumqayit Sahari*, Susa Rayonu, Susa Sahari*, Tartar
  Rayonu, Tovuz Rayonu, Ucar Rayonu, Xacmaz Rayonu, Xankandi Sahari*,
  Xanlar Rayonu, Xizi Rayonu, Xocali Rayonu, Xocavand Rayonu, Yardimli
  Rayonu, Yevlax Rayonu, Yevlax Sahari*, Zangilan Rayonu, Zaqatala
  Rayonu, Zardab Rayonu

Bahamas, The:
  21 districts; Acklins and Crooked Islands, Bimini, Cat
  Island, Exuma, Freeport, Fresh Creek, Governor's Harbour, Green
  Turtle Cay, Harbour Island, High Rock, Inagua, Kemps Bay, Long
  Island, Marsh Harbour, Mayaguana, New Providence, Nicholls Town and
  Berry Islands, Ragged Island, Rock Sound, Sandy Point, San Salvador
  and Rum Cay

Bahrain:
  12 municipalities (manatiq, singular - mintaqah); Al Hadd,
  Al Manamah, Al Mintaqah al Gharbiyah, Al Mintaqah al Wusta, Al
  Mintaqah ash Shamaliyah, Al Muharraq, Ar Rifa' wa al Mintaqah al
  Janubiyah, Jidd Hafs, Madinat Hamad, Madinat 'Isa, Juzur Hawar,
  Sitrah

  note:  all municipalities administered from Manama

Bangladesh:
  5 divisions; Barisal, Chittagong, Dhaka, Khulna,
  Rajshahi; note - there may be one additional division named Sylhet

Barbados:
  11 parishes; Christ Church, Saint Andrew, Saint George,
  Saint James, Saint John, Saint Joseph, Saint Lucy, Saint Michael,
  Saint Peter, Saint Philip, Saint Thomas; note - the city of
  Bridgetown may be given parish status

Belarus:
  6 voblastsi (singular - voblasts') and one municipality*
  (harady, singular - horad); Brestskaya (Brest), Homyel'skaya
  (Homyel'), Horad Minsk*, Hrodzyenskaya (Hrodna), Mahilyowskaya
  (Mahilyow), Minskaya, Vitsyebskaya (Vitsyebsk); note - when using a
  place name with the adjectival ending 'skaya' the word voblasts'
  should be added to the place name

  note:  voblasti have the administrative center name following in
  parentheses

Belgium:
  10 provinces (French: provinces, singular - province;
  Flemish: provincien, singular - provincie); Antwerpen, Brabant
  Wallon, Hainaut, Liege, Limburg, Luxembourg, Namur, Oost-Vlaanderen,
  Vlaams Brabant, West-Vlaanderen; note - the Brussels Capitol Region
  is not included within the 10 provinces

Belize:
  6 districts; Belize, Cayo, Corozal, Orange Walk, Stann
  Creek, Toledo

Benin:
  6 provinces; Atakora, Atlantique, Borgou, Mono, Oueme, Zou;
  note - six additional provinces have been reported but not
  confirmed; they are Alibori, Collines, Couffo, Donga, Littoral, and
  Plateau; moreover, the term "province" may have been changed to
  "department"

Bermuda:
  9 parishes and 2 municipalities*; Devonshire, Hamilton,
  Hamilton*, Paget, Pembroke, Saint George*, Saint Georges, Sandys,
  Smiths, Southampton, Warwick

Bhutan:
  18 districts (dzongkhag, singular and plural); Bumthang,
  Chhukha, Chirang, Daga, Geylegphug, Ha, Lhuntshi, Mongar, Paro,
  Pemagatsel, Punakha, Samchi, Samdrup Jongkhar, Shemgang, Tashigang,
  Thimphu, Tongsa, Wangdi Phodrang

  note:  there may be two new districts named Gasa and Yangtse

Bolivia:
  9 departments (departamentos, singular - departamento);
  Chuquisaca, Cochabamba, Beni, La Paz, Oruro, Pando, Potosi, Santa
  Cruz, Tarija

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  there are two first-order administrative
  divisions - the Bosniak/Croat Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina
  (Federacija Bosna i Hercegovina) and the Bosnian Serb-led Republika
  Srpska; note - Brcko in northeastern Bosnia is a self-governing
  administrative unit under the sovereignty of Bosnia and Herzegovina;
  it is not part of either the Federation or Republika Srpska

Botswana:
  10 districts and four town councils*; Central, Chobe,
  Francistown*, Gaborone*, Ghanzi, Kgalagadi, Kgatleng, Kweneng,
  Lobatse*, Ngamiland, North-East, Selebi-Pikwe*, South-East, Southern

Brazil:
  26 states (estados, singular - estado) and 1 federal
  district* (distrito federal); Acre, Alagoas, Amapa, Amazonas, Bahia,
  Ceara, Distrito Federal*, Espirito Santo, Goias, Maranhao, Mato
  Grosso, Mato Grosso do Sul, Minas Gerais, Para, Paraiba, Parana,
  Pernambuco, Piaui, Rio de Janeiro, Rio Grande do Norte, Rio Grande
  do Sul, Rondonia, Roraima, Santa Catarina, Sao Paulo, Sergipe,
  Tocantins

British Virgin Islands:
  none (overseas territory of the UK)

Brunei:
  4 districts (daerah-daerah, singular - daerah); Belait,
  Brunei and Muara, Temburong, Tutong

Bulgaria:
  28 provinces (oblasti, singular - oblast); Blagoevgrad,
  Burgas, Dobrich, Gabrovo, Khaskovo, Kurdzhali, Kyustendil, Lovech,
  Montana, Pazardzhik, Pernik, Pleven, Plovdiv, Razgrad, Ruse, Shumen,
  Silistra, Sliven, Smolyan, Sofiya, Sofiya-Grad, Stara Zagora,
  Turgovishte, Varna, Veliko Turnovo, Vidin, Vratsa, Yambol

Burkina Faso:
  30 provinces; Bam, Bazega, Bougouriba, Boulgou,
  Boulkiemde, Ganzourgou, Gnagna, Gourma, Houe, Kadiogo, Kenedougou,
  Komoe, Kossi, Kouritenga, Mouhoun, Namentenga, Naouri, Oubritenga,
  Oudalan, Passore, Poni, Sanguie, Sanmatenga, Seno, Sissili, Soum,
  Sourou, Tapoa, Yatenga, Zoundweogo

  note:  a new electoral code was approved by the National Assembly in
  January 1997; the number of administrative provinces was increased
  from 30 to 45 (Bale, Bam, Banwa, Bazega, Bougouriba, Boulgou,
  Boulkiemde, Comoe, Ganzourgou, Gnagna, Gourma, Houet, Ioba, Kadiogo,
  Kenedougou, Komandjari, Kompienga, Kossi, Koupelogo, Kouritenga,
  Kourweogo, Leraba, Loroum, Mouhoun, Nahouri, Namentenga, Nayala,
  Naumbiel, Oubritenga, Oudalan, Passore, Poni, Samentenga, Sanguie,
  Seno, Sissili, Soum, Sourou, Tapoa, Tuy, Yagha, Yatenga, Ziro,
  Zondomo, Zoundweogo), however, this change has not yet been
  confirmed by the US Board on Geographic Names

Burma:
  7 divisions* (yin-mya, singular - yin) and 7 states
  (pyine-mya, singular - pyine); Chin State, Ayeyarwady*, Bago*,
  Kachin State, Kayin State, Kayah State, Magway*, Mandalay*, Mon
  State, Rakhine State, Sagaing*, Shan State, Tanintharyi*, Yangon*

Burundi:
  16 provinces; Bubanza, Bujumbura, Bururi, Cankuzo,
  Cibitoke, Gitega, Karuzi, Kayanza, Kirundo, Makamba, Muramvya,
  Muyinga, Mwaro, Ngozi, Rutana, Ruyigi

Cambodia:
  20 provinces (khett, singular and plural) and 4
  municipalities* (krong, singular and plural); Banteay Mean Cheay,
  Batdambang, Kampong Cham, Kampong Chhnang, Kampong Spoe, Kampong
  Thum, Kampot, Kandal, Kaoh Kong, Keb*, Kracheh, Mondol Kiri, Otdar
  Mean Cheay, Pailin*, Phnum Penh*, Pouthisat, Preah Seihanu*
  (Sihanoukville), Preah Vihear, Prey Veng, Rotanah Kiri, Siem Reab,
  Stoeng Treng, Svay Rieng, Takev

Cameroon:
  10 provinces; Adamaoua, Centre, Est, Extreme-Nord,
  Littoral, Nord, Nord-Ouest, Ouest, Sud, Sud-Ouest

Canada:
  10 provinces and 3 territories*; Alberta, British Columbia,
  Manitoba, New Brunswick, Newfoundland, Northwest Territories*, Nova
  Scotia, Nunavut*, Ontario, Prince Edward Island, Quebec,
  Saskatchewan, Yukon Territory*

Cape Verde:
  14 districts (concelhos, singular - concelho); Boa
  Vista, Brava, Fogo, Maio, Paul, Praia, Porto Novo, Ribeira Grande,
  Sal, Santa Catarina, Santa Cruz, Sao Nicolau, Sao Vicente, Tarrafal;
  note - there may be a new administrative structure of 16 districts
  (Boa Vista, Brava, Maio, Mosteiros, Paul, Praia, Porto Novo, Ribeira
  Grande, Sal, Santa Catarina, Santa Cruz, Sao Domingos, Sao Nicolau,
  Sao Filipe, Sao Vicente, Tarrafal)

Cayman Islands:
  8 districts; Creek, Eastern, Midland, South Town,
  Spot Bay, Stake Bay, West End, Western

Central African Republic:
  14 prefectures (prefectures, singular -
  prefecture), 2 economic prefectures* (prefectures economiques,
  singular - prefecture economique), and 1 commune**;
  Bamingui-Bangoran, Bangui**, Basse-Kotto, Gribingui*, Haute-Kotto,
  Haute-Sangha, Haut-Mbomou, Kemo-Gribingui, Lobaye, Mbomou,
  Nana-Mambere, Ombella-Mpoko, Ouaka, Ouham, Ouham-Pende, Sangha*,
  Vakaga

Chad:
  14 prefectures (prefectures, singular - prefecture); Batha,
  Biltine, Borkou-Ennedi-Tibesti, Chari-Baguirmi, Guera, Kanem, Lac,
  Logone Occidental, Logone Oriental, Mayo-Kebbi, Moyen-Chari,
  Ouaddai, Salamat, Tandjile

Chile:
  13 regions (regiones, singular - region); Aisen del General
  Carlos Ibanez del Campo, Antofagasta, Araucania, Atacama, Bio-Bio,
  Coquimbo, Libertador General Bernardo O'Higgins, Los Lagos,
  Magallanes y de la Antartica Chilena, Maule, Region Metropolitana
  (Santiago), Tarapaca, Valparaiso

  note:  the US does not recognize claims to Antarctica

China:
  23 provinces (sheng, singular and plural), 5 autonomous
  regions* (zizhiqu, singular and plural), and 4 municipalities**
  (shi, singular and plural); Anhui, Beijing**, Chongqing**, Fujian,
  Gansu, Guangdong, Guangxi*, Guizhou, Hainan, Hebei, Heilongjiang,
  Henan, Hubei, Hunan, Jiangsu, Jiangxi, Jilin, Liaoning, Nei Mongol*,
  Ningxia*, Qinghai, Shaanxi, Shandong, Shanghai**, Shanxi, Sichuan,
  Tianjin**, Xinjiang*, Xizang* (Tibet), Yunnan, Zhejiang; note -
  China considers Taiwan its 23rd province; see separate entries for
  the special administrative regions of Hong Kong and Macau

Christmas Island:
  none (territory of Australia)

Cocos (Keeling) Islands:
  none (territory of Australia)

Colombia:
  32 departments (departamentos, singular - departamento)
  and 1 capital district* (distrito capital); Amazonas, Antioquia,
  Arauca, Atlantico, Bolivar, Boyaca, Caldas, Caqueta, Casanare,
  Cauca, Cesar, Choco, Cordoba, Cundinamarca, Guainia, Guaviare,
  Huila, La Guajira, Magdalena, Meta, Narino, Norte de Santander,
  Putumayo, Quindio, Risaralda, San Andres y Providencia, Distrito
  Capital de Santa Fe de Bogota*, Santander, Sucre, Tolima, Valle del
  Cauca, Vaupes, Vichada

Comoros:
  3 islands; Grande Comore (Njazidja), Anjouan (Nzwani), and
  Moheli (Mwali); note - there are also four municipalities named
  Domoni, Fomboni, Moroni, and Moutsamoudou

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  10 provinces (provinces, singular
  - province) and one city* (ville); Bandundu, Bas-Congo, Equateur,
  Kasai-Occidental, Kasai-Oriental, Katanga, Kinshasa*, Maniema,
  Nord-Kivu, Orientale, Sud-Kivu

Congo, Republic of the:
  9 regions (regions, singular - region) and 1
  commune*; Bouenza, Brazzaville*, Cuvette, Kouilou, Lekoumou,
  Likouala, Niari, Plateaux, Pool, Sangha

Cook Islands:
  none

Costa Rica:
  7 provinces (provincias, singular - provincia);
  Alajuela, Cartago, Guanacaste, Heredia, Limon, Puntarenas, San Jose

Cote d'Ivoire:
  50 departments (departements, singular -
  departement); Abengourou, Abidjan, Aboisso, Adzope, Agboville,
  Agnibilekrou, Bangolo, Beoumi, Biankouma, Bondoukou, Bongouanou,
  Bouafle, Bouake, Bouna, Boundiali, Dabakala, Daloa, Danane, Daoukro,
  Dimbokro, Divo, Duekoue, Ferkessedougou, Gagnoa, Grand-Lahou,
  Guiglo, Issia, Katiola, Korhogo, Lakota, Man, Mankono, Mbahiakro,
  Odienne, Oume, Sakassou, San-Pedro, Sassandra, Seguela, Sinfra,
  Soubre, Tabou, Tanda, Tingrela, Tiassale, Touba, Toumodi, Vavoua,
  Yamoussoukro, Zuenoula

  note:  Cote d'Ivoire may have a new administrative structure
  consisting of 58 departments; the following additional departments
  have been reported but not yet confirmed by the US Board on
  Geographic Names (BGN); Adiake', Ale'pe', Dabon, Grand Bassam,
  Jacqueville, Tiebissou, Toulepleu, Bocanda

Croatia:
  20 counties (zupanije, zupanija - singular), 1 city (grad
  -singular)*: Bjelovarsko-Bilogorska Zupanija, Brodsko-Posavska
  Zupanija, Dubrovacko-Neretvanska Zupanija, Istarska Zupanija,
  Karlovacka Zupanija, Koprivnicko-Krizevacka Zupanija,
  Krapinsko-Zagorska Zupanija, Licko-Senjska Zupanija, Medimurska
  Zupanija, Osjecko-Baranjska Zupanija, Pozesko-Slavonska Zupanija,
  Primorsko-Goranska Zupanija, Sibensko-Kninska Zupanija,
  Sisacko-Moslavacka Zupanija, Splitsko-Dalmatinska Zupanija,
  Varazdinska Zupanija, Viroviticko-Podravska Zupanija,
  Vukovarsko-Srijemska Zupanija, Zadarska Zupanija, Zagreb*,
  Zagrebacka Zupanija

Cuba:
  14 provinces (provincias, singular - provincia) and 1 special
  municipality* (municipio especial); Camaguey, Ciego de Avila,
  Cienfuegos, Ciudad de La Habana, Granma, Guantanamo, Holguin, Isla
  de la Juventud*, La Habana, Las Tunas, Matanzas, Pinar del Rio,
  Sancti Spiritus, Santiago de Cuba, Villa Clara

Cyprus:
  6 districts; Famagusta, Kyrenia, Larnaca, Limassol, Nicosia,
  Paphos; note - Turkish Cypriot area's administrative divisions
  include Kyrenia, all but a small part of Famagusta, and small parts
  of Lefkosa (Nicosia) and Larnaca

Czech Republic:
  13 regions (kraje, singular - kraj) and 1 capital
  city* (hlavni mesto); Brnensky, Budejovicky, Jihlavsky, Karlovarsky,
  Kralovehradecky, Liberecky, Olomoucky, Ostravsky, Pardubicky,
  Plzensky, Praha*, Stredocesky, Ustecky, Zlinsky

Denmark:
  metropolitan Denmark - 14 counties (amter, singular - amt)
  and 2 kommunes*; Arhus, Bornholm, Fredericksberg*, Frederiksborg,
  Fyn, Kobenhavn, Kobenhavns*, Nordjylland, Ribe, Ringkobing,
  Roskilde, Sonderjylland, Storstrom, Vejle, Vestsjalland, Viborg

  note:  see separate entries for the Faroe Islands and Greenland,
  which are part of the Kingdom of Denmark and are self-governing
  administrative divisions

Djibouti:
  5 districts (cercles, singular - cercle); 'Ali Sabih,
  Dikhil, Djibouti, Obock, Tadjoura

Dominica:
  10 parishes; Saint Andrew, Saint David, Saint George,
  Saint John, Saint Joseph, Saint Luke, Saint Mark, Saint Patrick,
  Saint Paul, Saint Peter

Dominican Republic:
  29 provinces (provincias, singular - provincia)
  and 1 district* (distrito); Azua, Baoruco, Barahona, Dajabon,
  Distrito Nacional*, Duarte, Elias Pina, El Seibo, Espaillat, Hato
  Mayor, Independencia, La Altagracia, La Romana, La Vega, Maria
  Trinidad Sanchez, Monsenor Nouel, Monte Cristi, Monte Plata,
  Pedernales, Peravia, Puerto Plata, Salcedo, Samana, Sanchez Ramirez,
  San Cristobal, San Juan, San Pedro de Macoris, Santiago, Santiago
  Rodriguez, Valverde

Ecuador:
  22 provinces (provincias, singular - provincia); Azuay,
  Bolivar, Canar, Carchi, Chimborazo, Cotopaxi, El Oro, Esmeraldas,
  Galapagos, Guayas, Imbabura, Loja, Los Rios, Manabi,
  Morona-Santiago, Napo, Orellana, Pastaza, Pichincha, Sucumbios,
  Tungurahua, Zamora-Chinchipe

Egypt:
  26 governorates (muhafazat, singular - muhafazah); Ad
  Daqahliyah, Al Bahr al Ahmar, Al Buhayrah, Al Fayyum, Al Gharbiyah,
  Al Iskandariyah, Al Isma'iliyah, Al Jizah, Al Minufiyah, Al Minya,
  Al Qahirah, Al Qalyubiyah, Al Wadi al Jadid, Ash Sharqiyah, As
  Suways, Aswan, Asyut, Bani Suwayf, Bur Sa'id, Dumyat, Janub Sina',
  Kafr ash Shaykh, Matruh, Qina, Shamal Sina', Suhaj

El Salvador:
  14 departments (departamentos, singular -
  departamento); Ahuachapan, Cabanas, Chalatenango, Cuscatlan, La
  Libertad, La Paz, La Union, Morazan, San Miguel, San Salvador, Santa
  Ana, San Vicente, Sonsonate, Usulutan

Equatorial Guinea:
  7 provinces (provincias, singular - provincia);
  Annobon, Bioko Norte, Bioko Sur, Centro Sur, Kie-Ntem, Litoral,
  Wele-Nzas

Eritrea:
  8 provinces (singular - awraja); Akale Guzay, Barka,
  Denkel, Hamasen, Sahil, Semhar, Senhit, Seraye

  note:  in May 1995 the National Assembly adopted a resolution
  stating that the administrative structure of Eritrea, which had been
  established by former colonial powers, would consist of only six
  provinces when the new constitution, then being drafted, became
  effective in 1997; the new provinces, the names of which had not
  been recommended by the US Board on Geographic Names for recognition
  by the US Government, pending acceptable definition of the
  boundaries, were: Anseba, Debub, Debubawi Keyih Bahri, Gash-Barka,
  Maakel, and Semanawi Keyih Bahri; more recently, it has been
  reported that these provinces have been redesignated regions and
  renamed Southern Red Sea, Northern Red Sea, Anseba, Gash-Barka,
  Southern, and Central

Estonia:
  15 counties (maakonnad, singular - maakond): Harjumaa
  (Tallinn), Hiiumaa (Kardla), Ida-Virumaa (Johvi), Jarvamaa (Paide),
  Jogevamaa (Jogeva), Laanemaa (Haapsalu), Laane-Virumaa (Rakvere),
  Parnumaa (Parnu), Polvamaa (Polva), Raplamaa (Rapla), Saaremaa
  (Kuessaare), Tartumaa (Tartu), Valgamaa (Valga), Viljandimaa
  (Viljandi), Vorumaa (Voru)

  note:  counties have the administrative center name following in
  parentheses

Ethiopia:
  9 ethnically-based states (kililoch, singular - kilil) and
  2 self-governing administrations* (astedaderoch, singular -
  astedader): Adis Abeba* (Addis Ababa); Afar; Amara, Binshangul
  Gumuz; Dire Dawa*; Gambela Hizboch; Hareri Hizb; Oromiya; Sumale;
  Tigray; YeDebub Biheroch Bihereseboch na Hizboch (Southern Nations,
  Nationalities, and Peoples Region)

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas):
  none (overseas territory of the
  UK; also claimed by Argentina)

Faroe Islands:
  none (part of the Kingdom of Denmark; self-governing
  overseas administrative division of Denmark); there are no
  first-order administrative divisions as defined by the US
  Government, but there are 49 municipalities

Fiji:
  4 divisions and 1 dependency*; Central, Eastern, Northern,
  Rotuma*, Western

Finland:
  6 provinces (laanit, singular - laani); Aland, Etela-Suomen
  Laani, Ita-Suomen Laani, Lansi-Suomen Laani, Lappi, Oulun Laani

France:
  22 regions (regions, singular - region); Alsace, Aquitaine,
  Auvergne, Basse-Normandie, Bourgogne, Bretagne, Centre,
  Champagne-Ardenne, Corse, Franche-Comte, Haute-Normandie,
  Ile-de-France, Languedoc-Roussillon, Limousin, Lorraine,
  Midi-Pyrenees, Nord-Pas-de-Calais, Pays de la Loire, Picardie,
  Poitou-Charentes, Provence-Alpes-Cote d'Azur, Rhone-Alpes

  note:  metropolitan France is divided into 22 regions (including the
  "territorial collectivity" of Corse or Corsica) and is subdivided
  into 96 departments; see separate entries for the overseas
  departments (French Guiana, Guadeloupe, Martinique, Reunion) and the
  overseas territorial collectivities (Mayotte, Saint Pierre and
  Miquelon)

French Guiana:
  none (overseas department of France)

French Polynesia:
  none (overseas territory of France); there are no
  first-order administrative divisions as defined by the US
  Government, but there are 5 archipelagic divisions named Archipel
  des Marquises, Archipel des Tuamotu, Archipel des Tubuai, Iles du
  Vent, and Iles Sous-le-Vent

  note:  Clipperton Island is administered by France from French
  Polynesia

French Southern and Antarctic Lands:
  none (overseas territory of
  France); there are no first-order administrative divisions as
  defined by the US Government, but there are 3 districts named Ile
  Crozet, Iles Kerguelen, and Iles Saint-Paul et Amsterdam; excludes
  "Adelie Land" claim in Antarctica that is not recognized by the US

Gabon:
  9 provinces; Estuaire, Haut-Ogooue, Moyen-Ogooue, Ngounie,
  Nyanga, Ogooue-Ivindo, Ogooue-Lolo, Ogooue-Maritime, Woleu-Ntem

Gambia, The:
  5 divisions and 1 city*; Banjul*, Lower River, Central
  River, North Bank, Upper River, Western

Georgia:
  53 rayons (raionebi, singular - raioni), 9 cities*
  (k'alak'ebi, singular - k'alak'i), and 2 autonomous republics**
  (avtomnoy respubliki, singular - avtom respublika); Abashis,
  Abkhazia or Ap'khazet'is Avtonomiuri Respublika** (Sokhumi),
  Adigenis, Ajaria or Acharis Avtonomiuri Respublika** (Bat'umi),
  Akhalgoris, Akhalk'alak'is, Akhalts'ikhis, Akhmetis, Ambrolauris,
  Aspindzis, Baghdat'is, Bolnisis, Borjomis, Chiat'ura*,
  Ch'khorotsqus, Ch'okhatauris, Dedop'listsqaros, Dmanisis, Dushet'is,
  Gardabanis, Gori*, Goris, Gurjaanis, Javis, K'arelis, Kaspis,
  Kharagaulis, Khashuris, Khobis, Khonis, K'ut'aisi*, Lagodekhis,
  Lanch'khut'is, Lentekhis, Marneulis, Martvilis, Mestiis,
  Mts'khet'is, Ninotsmindis, Onis, Ozurget'is, P'ot'i*, Qazbegis,
  Qvarlis, Rust'avi*, Sach'kheris, Sagarejos, Samtrediis, Senakis,
  Sighnaghis, T'bilisi*, T'elavis, T'erjolis, T'et'ritsqaros,
  T'ianet'is, Tqibuli*, Ts'ageris, Tsalenjikhis, Tsalkis, Tsqaltubo*,
  Vanis, Zestap'onis, Zugdidi*, Zugdidis

  note:  administrative divisions have the same names as their
  administrative centers (exceptions have the administrative center
  name following in parentheses)

Germany:
  16 states (Laender, singular - Land); Baden-Wuerttemberg,
  Bayern, Berlin, Brandenburg, Bremen, Hamburg, Hessen,
  Mecklenburg-Vorpommern, Niedersachsen, Nordrhein-Westfalen,
  Rheinland-Pfalz, Saarland, Sachsen, Sachsen-Anhalt,
  Schleswig-Holstein, Thueringen

Ghana:
  10 regions; Ashanti, Brong-Ahafo, Central, Eastern, Greater
  Accra, Northern, Upper East, Upper West, Volta, Western

Gibraltar:
  none (overseas territory of the UK)

Greece:
  51 prefectures (nomoi, singular - nomos)and 1 autonomous
  region*; Ayion Oros* (Mt. Athos), Aitolia kai Akarnania, Akhaia,
  Argolis, Arkadhia, Arta, Attiki, Dhodhekanisos, Drama, Evritania,
  Evros, Evvoia, Florina, Fokis, Fthiotis, Grevena, Ilia, Imathia,
  Ioannina, Irakleion, Kardhitsa, Kastoria, Kavala, Kefallinia,
  Kerkyra, Khalkidhiki, Khania, Khios, Kikladhes, Kilkis, Korinthia,
  Kozani, Lakonia, Larisa, Lasithi, Lesvos, Levkas, Magnisia,
  Messinia, Pella, Pieria, Preveza, Rethimni, Rodhopi, Samos, Serrai,
  Thesprotia, Thessaloniki, Trikala, Voiotia, Xanthi, Zakinthos

Greenland:
  3 districts (landsdele); Avannaa (Nordgronland), Tunu
  (Ostgronland), Kitaa (Vestgronland)

  note:  there are 18 municipalities in Greenland

Grenada:
  6 parishes and 1 dependency*; Carriacou and Petit
  Martinique*, Saint Andrew, Saint David, Saint George, Saint John,
  Saint Mark, Saint Patrick

Guadeloupe:
  none (overseas department of France)

Guam:
  none (territory of the US)

Guatemala:
  22 departments (departamentos, singular - departamento);
  Alta Verapaz, Baja Verapaz, Chimaltenango, Chiquimula, El Progreso,
  Escuintla, Guatemala, Huehuetenango, Izabal, Jalapa, Jutiapa, Peten,
  Quetzaltenango, Quiche, Retalhuleu, Sacatepequez, San Marcos, Santa
  Rosa, Solola, Suchitepequez, Totonicapan, Zacapa

Guernsey:
  none (British crown dependency); there are no first-order
  administrative divisions as defined by the US Government, but there
  are 10 parishes including St. Peter Port, St. Sampson, Vale, Castel,
  St. Saviour, St. Pierre du Bois, Torteval, Forest, St. Martin, St.
  Andrew

Guinea:
  33 prefectures and 1 special zone (zone special)*; Beyla,
  Boffa, Boke, Conakry*, Coyah, Dabola, Dalaba, Dinguiraye, Dubreka,
  Faranah, Forecariah, Fria, Gaoual, Gueckedou, Kankan, Kerouane,
  Kindia, Kissidougou, Koubia, Koundara, Kouroussa, Labe, Lelouma,
  Lola, Macenta, Mali, Mamou, Mandiana, Nzerekore, Pita, Siguiri,
  Telimele, Tougue, Yomou

Guinea-Bissau:
  9 regions (regioes, singular - regiao); Bafata,
  Biombo, Bissau, Bolama, Cacheu, Gabu, Oio, Quinara, Tombali; note -
  Bolama may have been renamed Bolama/Bijagos

Guyana:
  10 regions; Barima-Waini, Cuyuni-Mazaruni, Demerara-Mahaica,
  East Berbice-Corentyne, Essequibo Islands-West Demerara,
  Mahaica-Berbice, Pomeroon-Supenaam, Potaro-Siparuni, Upper
  Demerara-Berbice, Upper Takutu-Upper Essequibo

Haiti:
  9 departments (departements, singular - departement);
  Artibonite, Centre, Grand'Anse, Nord, Nord-Est, Nord-Ouest, Ouest,
  Sud, Sud-Est

Honduras:
  18 departments (departamentos, singular - departamento);
  Atlantida, Choluteca, Colon, Comayagua, Copan, Cortes, El Paraiso,
  Francisco Morazan, Gracias a Dios, Intibuca, Islas de la Bahia, La
  Paz, Lempira, Ocotepeque, Olancho, Santa Barbara, Valle, Yoro

Hong Kong:
  none (special administrative region of China)

Hungary:
  19 counties (megyek, singular - megye), 20 urban counties*
  (singular - megyei varos), and 1 capital city** (fovaros);
  Bacs-Kiskun, Baranya, Bekes, Bekescsaba*, Borsod-Abauj-Zemplen,
  Budapest**, Csongrad, Debrecen*, Dunaujvaros*, Eger*, Fejer, Gyor*,
  Gyor-Moson-Sopron, Hajdu-Bihar, Heves, Hodmezovasarhely*,
  Jasz-Nagykun-Szolnok, Kaposvar*, Kecskemet*, Komarom-Esztergom,
  Miskolc*, Nagykanizsa*, Nograd, Nyiregyhaza*, Pecs*, Pest, Somogy,
  Sopron*, Szabolcs-Szatmar-Bereg, Szeged*, Szekesfehervar*, Szolnok*,
  Szombathely*, Tatabanya*, Tolna, Vas, Veszprem, Veszprem*, Zala,
  Zalaegerszeg*

Iceland:
  23 counties (syslar, singular - sysla) and 14 independent
  towns* (kaupstadhir, singular - kaupstadhur); Akranes*, Akureyri*,
  Arnessysla, Austur-Bardhastrandarsysla, Austur-Hunavatnssysla,
  Austur-Skaftafellssysla, Borgarfjardharsysla, Dalasysla,
  Eyjafjardharsysla, Gullbringusysla, Hafnarfjordhur*, Husavik*,
  Isafjordhur*, Keflavik*, Kjosarsysla, Kopavogur*, Myrasysla,
  Neskaupstadhur*, Nordhur-Isafjardharsysla, Nordhur-Mulasys-la,
  Nordhur-Thingeyjarsysla, Olafsfjordhur*, Rangarvallasysla,
  Reykjavik*, Saudharkrokur*, Seydhisfjordhur*, Siglufjordhur*,
  Skagafjardharsysla, Snaefellsnes-og Hnappadalssysla, Strandasysla,
  Sudhur-Mulasysla, Sudhur-Thingeyjarsysla, Vesttmannaeyjar*,
  Vestur-Bardhastrandarsysla, Vestur-Hunavatnssysla,
  Vestur-Isafjardharsysla, Vestur-Skaftafellssysla

  note:  there may be four other counties

India:
  28 states and 7 union territories*; Andaman and Nicobar
  Islands*, Andhra Pradesh, Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Bihar,
  Chandigarh*, Chhattisgarh, Dadra and Nagar Haveli*, Daman and Diu*,
  Delhi*, Goa, Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir,
  Jharkhand, Karnataka, Kerala, Lakshadweep*, Madhya Pradesh,
  Maharashtra, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Orissa,
  Pondicherry*, Punjab, Rajasthan, Sikkim, Tamil Nadu, Tripura,
  Uttaranchal, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal

Indonesia:
  27 provinces (propinsi-propinsi, singular - propinsi), 2
  special regions* (daerah-daerah istimewa, singular - daerah
  istimewa), and 1 special capital city district** (daerah khusus
  ibukota); Aceh*, Bali, Banten, Bengkulu, Gorontalo, Irian Jaya,
  Jakarta Raya**, Jambi, Jawa Barat, Jawa Tengah, Jawa Timur,
  Kalimantan Barat, Kalimantan Selatan, Kalimantan Tengah, Kalimantan
  Timur, Kepulauan Bangka Belitung, Lampung, Maluku, Maluku Utara,
  Nusa Tenggara Barat, Nusa Tenggara Timur, Riau, Sulawesi Selatan,
  Sulawesi Tengah, Sulawesi Tenggara, Sulawesi Utara, Sumatera Barat,
  Sumatera Selatan, Sumatera Utara, Yogyakarta*; note - the province
  of Irian Jaya may have been divided into two new provinces - Central
  Irian Jaya and West Irian Jaya; with the implementation of
  decentralization on 1 January 2001, the 357 districts (regencies)
  may become the key administrative units

  note:  following the 30 August 1999 provincial referendum for
  independence which was overwhelmingly approved by the people of
  Timor Timur and the October 1999 concurrence of Indonesia's national
  legislature, the name East Timor was adopted as a provisional name
  for the political entity formerly known as Propinsi Timor Timur;
  East Timor is under UN administration pending its formal independence

Iran:
  28 provinces (ostanha, singular - ostan); Ardabil,
  Azarbayjan-e Gharbi, Azarbayjan-e Sharqi, Bushehr, Chahar Mahall va
  Bakhtiari, Esfahan, Fars, Gilan, Golestan, Hamadan, Hormozgan, Ilam,
  Kerman, Kermanshah, Khorasan, Khuzestan, Kohgiluyeh va Buyer Ahmad,
  Kordestan, Lorestan, Markazi, Mazandaran, Qazvin, Qom, Semnan,
  Sistan va Baluchestan, Tehran, Yazd, Zanjan

Iraq:
  18 provinces (muhafazat, singular - muhafazah); Al Anbar, Al
  Basrah, Al Muthanna, Al Qadisiyah, An Najaf, Arbil, As Sulaymaniyah,
  At Ta'mim, Babil, Baghdad, Dahuk, Dhi Qar, Diyala, Karbala', Maysan,
  Ninawa, Salah ad Din, Wasit

Ireland:
  26 counties; Carlow, Cavan, Clare, Cork, Donegal, Dublin,
  Galway, Kerry, Kildare, Kilkenny, Laois, Leitrim, Limerick,
  Longford, Louth, Mayo, Meath, Monaghan, Offaly, Roscommon, Sligo,
  Tipperary, Waterford, Westmeath, Wexford, Wicklow

Israel:
  6 districts (mehozot, singular - mehoz); Central, Haifa,
  Jerusalem, Northern, Southern, Tel Aviv

Italy:
  20 regions (regioni, singular - regione); Abruzzi,
  Basilicata, Calabria, Campania, Emilia-Romagna, Friuli-Venezia
  Giulia, Lazio, Liguria, Lombardia, Marche, Molise, Piemonte, Puglia,
  Sardegna, Sicilia, Toscana, Trentino-Alto Adige, Umbria, Valle
  d'Aosta, Veneto

Jamaica:
  14 parishes; Clarendon, Hanover, Kingston, Manchester,
  Portland, Saint Andrew, Saint Ann, Saint Catherine, Saint Elizabeth,
  Saint James, Saint Mary, Saint Thomas, Trelawny, Westmoreland

Japan:
  47 prefectures; Aichi, Akita, Aomori, Chiba, Ehime, Fukui,
  Fukuoka, Fukushima, Gifu, Gumma, Hiroshima, Hokkaido, Hyogo,
  Ibaraki, Ishikawa, Iwate, Kagawa, Kagoshima, Kanagawa, Kochi,
  Kumamoto, Kyoto, Mie, Miyagi, Miyazaki, Nagano, Nagasaki, Nara,
  Niigata, Oita, Okayama, Okinawa, Osaka, Saga, Saitama, Shiga,
  Shimane, Shizuoka, Tochigi, Tokushima, Tokyo, Tottori, Toyama,
  Wakayama, Yamagata, Yamaguchi, Yamanashi

Jersey:
  none (British crown dependency)

Jordan:
  12 governorates (muhafazat, singular - muhafazah); Ajlun, Al
  'Aqabah, Al Balqa', Al Karak, Al Mafraq, 'Amman, At Tafilah, Az
  Zarqa', Irbid, Jarash, Ma'an, Madaba

Kazakhstan:
  14 oblystar (singular - oblysy) and 3 cities (qala,
  singular - qalasy)*; Almaty, Almaty*, Aqmola (Astana), Aqtobe,
  Astana*, Atyrau, Batys Qazaqstan (Oral), Bayqongyr*, Mangghystau
  (Aqtau; formerly Shevchenko), Ongtustik Qazaqstan (Shymkent),
  Pavlodar, Qaraghandy, Qostanay, Qyzylorda, Shyghys Qazaqstan
  (Oskemen; formerly Ust'-Kamenogorsk), Soltustik Qazaqstan
  (Petropavl), Zhambyl (Taraz; formerly Dzhambul)

  note:  administrative divisions have the same names as their
  administrative centers (exceptions have the administrative center
  name following in parentheses); in 1995 the Governments of
  Kazakhstan and Russia entered into an agreement whereby Russia would
  lease for a period of 20 years an area of 6,000 sq km enclosing the
  Baykonur space launch facilities and the city of Bayqongyr
  (Baykonyr, formerly Leninsk)

Kenya:
  7 provinces and 1 area*; Central, Coast, Eastern, Nairobi
  Area*, North Eastern, Nyanza, Rift Valley, Western

Kiribati:
  3 units; Gilbert Islands, Line Islands, Phoenix Islands;
  note - in addition, there are 6 districts (Banaba, Central Gilberts,
  Line Islands, Northern Gilberts, Southern Gilberts, Tarawa) and 21
  island councils - one for each of the inhabited islands (Abaiang,
  Abemama, Aranuka, Arorae, Banaba, Beru, Butaritari, Kanton,
  Kiritimati, Kuria, Maiana, Makin, Marakei, Nikunau, Nonouti, Onotoa,
  Tabiteuea, Tabuaeran, Tamana, Tarawa, Teraina)

Korea, North:
  9 provinces (do, singular and plural) and 3 special
  cities* (si, singular and plural); Chagang-do (Chagang Province),
  Hamgyong-bukto (North Hamgyong Province), Hamgyong-namdo (South
  Hamgyong Province), Hwanghae-bukto (North Hwanghae Province),
  Hwanghae-namdo (South Hwanghae Province), Kaesong-si* (Kaesong
  City), Kangwon-do (Kangwon Province), Namp'o-si* (Namp'o City),
  P'yongan-bukto (North P'yongan Province), P'yongan-namdo (South
  P'yongan Province), P'yongyang-si* (P'yongyang City), Yanggang-do
  (Yanggang Province)

Korea, South:
  9 provinces (do, singular and plural) and 7
  metropolitan cities* (gwangyoksi, singular and plural); Cheju-do,
  Cholla-bukto, Cholla-namdo, Ch'ungch'ong-bukto, Ch'ungch'ong-namdo,
  Inch'on-gwangyoksi*, Kangwon-do, Kwangju-gwangyoksi*, Kyonggi-do,
  Kyongsang-bukto, Kyongsang-namdo, Pusan-gwangyoksi*,
  Soul-t'ukpyolsi*, Taegu-gwangyoksi*, Taejon-gwangyoksi*,
  Ulsan-gwangyoksi*

Kuwait:
  5 governorates (muhafazat, singular - muhafazah); Al Ahmadi,
  Al Farwaniyah, Al 'Asimah, Al Jahra', Hawalli

Kyrgyzstan:
  7 oblastlar (singular - oblast) and 1 city* (singular -
  shaar); Batken Oblasty, Bishkek Shaary*, Chuy Oblasty (Bishkek),
  Jalal-Abad Oblasty, Naryn Oblasty, Osh Oblasty, Talas Oblasty,
  Ysyk-Kol Oblasty (Karakol)

  note:  administrative divisions have the same names as their
  administrative centers (exceptions have the administrative center
  name following in parentheses)

Laos:
  16 provinces (khoueng, singular and plural), 1 municipality*
  (kampheng nakhon, singular and plural), and 1 special zone**
  (khetphiset, singular and plural); Attapu, Bokeo, Bolikhamxai,
  Champasak, Houaphan, Khammouan, Louangnamtha, Louangphabang,
  Oudomxai, Phongsali, Salavan, Savannakhet, Viangchan*, Viangchan,
  Xaignabouli, Xaisomboun**, Xekong, Xiangkhoang

Latvia:
  26 counties (singular - rajons) and 7 municipalities*:
  Aizkraukles Rajons, Aluksnes Rajons, Balvu Rajons, Bauskas Rajons,
  Cesu Rajons, Daugavpils*, Daugavpils Rajons, Dobeles Rajons,
  Gulbenes Rajons, Jekabpils Rajons, Jelgava*, Jelgavas Rajons,
  Jurmala*, Kraslavas Rajons, Kuldigas Rajons, Leipaja*, Liepajas
  Rajons, Limbazu Rajons, Ludzas Rajons, Madonas Rajons, Ogres Rajons,
  Preilu Rajons, Rezekne*, Rezeknes Rajons, Riga*, Rigas Rajons,
  Saldus Rajons, Talsu Rajons, Tukuma Rajons, Valkas Rajons, Valmieras
  Rajons, Ventspils*, Ventspils Rajons

Lebanon:
  5 governorates (mohafazat, singular - mohafazah); Beyrouth,
  Ech Chimal, Ej Jnoub, El Bekaa, Jabal Loubnane

Lesotho:
  10 districts; Berea, Butha-Buthe, Leribe, Mafeteng, Maseru,
  Mohales Hoek, Mokhotlong, Qacha's Nek, Quthing, Thaba-Tseka

Liberia:
  13 counties; Bomi, Bong, Grand Bassa, Grand Cape Mount,
  Grand Gedeh, Grand Kru, Lofa, Margibi, Maryland, Montserrado, Nimba,
  River Cess, Sinoe

Libya:
  25 municipalities (baladiyat, singular - baladiyah);
  Ajdabiya, Al 'Aziziyah, Al Fatih, Al Jabal al Akhdar, Al Jufrah, Al
  Khums, Al Kufrah, An Nuqat al Khams, Ash Shati', Awbari, Az Zawiyah,
  Banghazi, Darnah, Ghadamis, Gharyan, Misratah, Murzuq, Sabha,
  Sawfajjin, Surt, Tarabulus, Tarhunah, Tubruq, Yafran, Zlitan; note -
  the 25 municipalities may have been replaced by 13 regions

Liechtenstein:
  11 communes (gemeinden, singular - gemeinde);
  Balzers, Eschen, Gamprin, Mauren, Planken, Ruggell, Schaan,
  Schellenberg, Triesen, Triesenberg, Vaduz

Lithuania:
  44 regions (rajonai, singular - rajonas) and 11
  municipalities*: Akmenes Rajonas, Alytaus Rajonas, Alytus*, Anyksciu
  Rajonas, Birstonas*, Birzu Rajonas, Druskininkai*, Ignalinos
  Rajonas, Jonavos Rajonas, Joniskio Rajonas, Jurbarko Rajonas,
  Kaisiadoriu Rajonas, Kaunas*, Kauno Rajonas, Kedainiu Rajonas,
  Kelmes Rajonas, Klaipeda*, Klaipedos Rajonas, Kretingos Rajonas,
  Kupiskio Rajonas, Lazdiju Rajonas, Marijampole*, Marijampoles
  Rajonas, Mazeikiu Rajonas, Moletu Rajonas, Neringa* Pakruojo
  Rajonas, Palanga*, Panevezio Rajonas, Panevezys*, Pasvalio Rajonas,
  Plunges Rajonas, Prienu Rajonas, Radviliskio Rajonas, Raseiniu
  Rajonas, Rokiskio Rajonas, Sakiu Rajonas, Salcininku Rajonas,
  Siauliai*, Siauliu Rajonas, Silales Rajonas, Silutes Rajonas,
  Sirvintu Rajonas, Skuodo Rajonas, Svencioniu Rajonas, Taurages
  Rajonas, Telsiu Rajonas, Traku Rajonas, Ukmerges Rajonas, Utenos
  Rajonas, Varenos Rajonas, Vilkaviskio Rajonas, Vilniaus Rajonas,
  Vilnius*, Zarasu Rajonas

Luxembourg:
  3 districts; Diekirch, Grevenmacher, Luxembourg

Macau:
  none (special administrative region of China)

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  123 municipalities
  (opstini, singular - opstina); Aracinovo, Bac, Belcista, Berovo,
  Bistrica, Bitola, Blatec, Bogdanci, Bogomila, Bogovinje, Bosilovo,
  Brvenica, Cair (Skopje), Capari, Caska, Cegrane, Centar (Skopje),
  Centar Zupa, Cesinovo, Cucer-Sandevo, Debar, Delcevo, Delogozdi,
  Demir Hisar, Demir Kapija, Dobrusevo, Dolna Banjica, Dolneni, Dorce
  Petrov (Skopje), Drugovo, Dzepciste, Gazi Baba (Skopje), Gevgelija,
  Gostivar, Gradsko, Ilinden, Izvor, Jegunovce, Kamenjane, Karbinci,
  Karpos (Skopje), Kavadarci, Kicevo, Kisela Voda (Skopje), Klecevce,
  Kocani, Konce, Kondovo, Konopiste, Kosel, Kratovo, Kriva Palanka,
  Krivogastani, Krusevo, Kuklis, Kukurecani, Kumanovo, Labunista,
  Lipkovo, Lozovo, Lukovo, Makedonska Kamenica, Makedonski Brod,
  Mavrovi Anovi, Meseista, Miravci, Mogila, Murtino, Negotino,
  Negotino-Poloska, Novaci, Novo Selo, Oblesevo, Ohrid, Orasac,
  Orizari, Oslomej, Pehcevo, Petrovec, Plasnia, Podares, Prilep,
  Probistip, Radovis, Rankovce, Resen, Rosoman, Rostusa, Samokov,
  Saraj, Sipkovica, Sopiste, Sopotnika, Srbinovo, Star Dojran,
  Staravina, Staro Nagoricane, Stip, Struga, Strumica, Studenicani,
  Suto Orizari (Skopje), Sveti Nikole, Tearce, Tetovo, Topolcani,
  Valandovo, Vasilevo, Velesta, Veles, Vevcani, Vinica, Vitoliste,
  Vranestica, Vrapciste, Vratnica, Vrutok, Zajas, Zelenikovo, Zileno,
  Zitose, Zletovo, Zrnovci

  note:  the seven municipalities followed by Skopje in parentheses
  collectively constitute "greater Skopje"

Madagascar:
  6 provinces (faritany); Antananarivo, Antsiranana,
  Fianarantsoa, Mahajanga, Toamasina, Toliara

Malawi:
  24 districts; Blantyre, Chikwawa, Chiradzulu, Chitipa,
  Dedza, Dowa, Karonga, Kasungu, Lilongwe, Machinga (Kasupe),
  Mangochi, Mchinji, Mulanje, Mwanza, Mzimba, Ntcheu, Nkhata Bay,
  Nkhotakota, Nsanje, Ntchisi, Rumphi, Salima, Thyolo, Zomba; note -
  there may be three new districts named Balaka, Likoma, and Phalombe

Malaysia:
  13 states (negeri-negeri, singular - negeri) and 2 federal
  territories* (wilayah-wilayah persekutuan, singular - wilayah
  persekutuan); Johor, Kedah, Kelantan, Labuan*, Melaka, Negeri
  Sembilan, Pahang, Perak, Perlis, Pulau Pinang, Sabah, Sarawak,
  Selangor, Terengganu, Wilayah Persekutuan*

  note:  the city of Kuala Lumpur is located within the federal
  territory of Wilayah Persekutuan; the terms therefore are not
  interchangeable; there may be a new federal territory named Putrajaya

Maldives:
  19 atolls (atholhu, singular and plural) and 1 other
  first-order administrative division*; Alifu, Baa, Dhaalu, Faafu,
  Gaafu Alifu, Gaafu Dhaalu, Gnaviyani, Haa Alifu, Haa Dhaalu, Kaafu,
  Laamu, Lhaviyani, Maale*, Meemu, Noonu, Raa, Seenu, Shaviyani, Thaa,
  Vaavu

Mali:
  8 regions (regions, singular - region); Gao, Kayes, Kidal,
  Koulikoro, Mopti, Segou, Sikasso, Tombouctou

Malta:
  none (administered directly from Valletta)

Man, Isle of:
  there are 24 local authorities each with its own
  elections

Marshall Islands:
  33 municipalities; Ailinginae, Ailinglaplap,
  Ailuk, Arno, Aur, Bikar, Bikini, Bokak, Ebon, Enewetak, Erikub,
  Jabat, Jaluit, Jemo, Kili, Kwajalein, Lae, Lib, Likiep, Majuro,
  Maloelap, Mejit, Mili, Namorik, Namu, Rongelap, Rongrik, Toke, Ujae,
  Ujelang, Utirik, Wotho, Wotje

Martinique:
  none (overseas department of France)

Mauritania:
  12 regions (regions, singular - region) and 1 capital
  district*; Adrar, Assaba, Brakna, Dakhlet Nouadhibou, Gorgol,
  Guidimaka, Hodh Ech Chargui, Hodh El Gharbi, Inchiri, Nouakchott*,
  Tagant, Tiris Zemmour, Trarza

Mauritius:
  9 districts and 3 dependencies*; Agalega Islands*, Black
  River, Cargados Carajos Shoals*, Flacq, Grand Port, Moka,
  Pamplemousses, Plaines Wilhems, Port Louis, Riviere du Rempart,
  Rodrigues*, Savanne

Mayotte:
  none (territorial collectivity of France)

Mexico:
  31 states (estados, singular - estado) and 1 federal
  district* (distrito federal); Aguascalientes, Baja California, Baja
  California Sur, Campeche, Chiapas, Chihuahua, Coahuila de Zaragoza,
  Colima, Distrito Federal*, Durango, Guanajuato, Guerrero, Hidalgo,
  Jalisco, Mexico, Michoacan de Ocampo, Morelos, Nayarit, Nuevo Leon,
  Oaxaca, Puebla, Queretaro de Arteaga, Quintana Roo, San Luis Potosi,
  Sinaloa, Sonora, Tabasco, Tamaulipas, Tlaxcala, Veracruz-Llave,
  Yucatan, Zacatecas

Micronesia, Federated States of:
  4 states; Chuuk (Truk), Kosrae,
  Pohnpei, Yap

Moldova:
  10 juletule (singular - juletul), 1 municipality*, and 1
  autonomous territorial unit**; Balti, Cahul, Chisinau, Chisinau*,
  Dubasari, Edinet, Gagauzia**, Lapusna, Orhei, Soroca, Tighina,
  Ungheni

Monaco:
  none; there are no first-order administrative divisions as
  defined by the US Government, but there are four quarters
  (quartiers, singular - quartier); Fontvieille, La Condamine,
  Monaco-Ville, Monte-Carlo

Mongolia:
  18 provinces (aymguud, singular - aymag) and 3
  municipalities* (hotuud, singular - hot); Arhangay, Bayanhongor,
  Bayan-Olgiy, Bulgan, Darhan*, Dornod, Dornogovi, Dundgovi, Dzavhan,
  Erdenet*, Govi-Altay, Hentiy, Hovd, Hovsgol, Omnogovi, Ovorhangay,
  Selenge, Suhbaatar, Tov, Ulaanbaatar*, Uvs

  note:  there may be a new province named Gobi-Sumber; further, there
  may now be 21 provinces and 1 capital city instead of 18 provinces
  and 3 municipalities

Montserrat:
  3 parishes; Saint Anthony, Saint Georges, Saint Peter's

Morocco:
  37 provinces and 2 wilayas*; Agadir, Al Hoceima, Azilal,
  Beni Mellal, Ben Slimane, Boulemane, Casablanca*, Chaouen, El
  Jadida, El Kelaa des Srarhna, Er Rachidia, Essaouira, Fes, Figuig,
  Guelmim, Ifrane, Kenitra, Khemisset, Khenifra, Khouribga, Laayoune,
  Larache, Marrakech, Meknes, Nador, Ouarzazate, Oujda, Rabat-Sale*,
  Safi, Settat, Sidi Kacem, Tanger, Tan-Tan, Taounate, Taroudannt,
  Tata, Taza, Tetouan, Tiznit

  note:  three additional provinces of Ad Dakhla (Oued Eddahab),
  Boujdour, and Es Smara as well as parts of Tan-Tan and Laayoune fall
  within Moroccan-claimed Western Sahara;
  decentralization/regionalization law passed by the legislature in
  March 1997 creating many new provinces/regions; specific details and
  scope of the reorganization not yet available

Mozambique:
  10 provinces (provincias, singular - provincia); Cabo
  Delgado, Gaza, Inhambane, Manica, Maputo, Nampula, Niassa, Sofala,
  Tete, Zambezia

Namibia:
  13 regions; Caprivi, Erongo, Hardap, Karas, Khomas, Kunene,
  Ohangwena, Okavango, Omaheke, Omusati, Oshana, Oshikoto, Otjozondjupa

Nauru:
  14 districts; Aiwo, Anabar, Anetan, Anibare, Baiti, Boe,
  Buada, Denigomodu, Ewa, Ijuw, Meneng, Nibok, Uaboe, Yaren

Nepal:
  14 zones (anchal, singular and plural); Bagmati, Bheri,
  Dhawalagiri, Gandaki, Janakpur, Karnali, Kosi, Lumbini, Mahakali,
  Mechi, Narayani, Rapti, Sagarmatha, Seti

Netherlands:
  12 provinces (provincien, singular - provincie);
  Drenthe, Flevoland, Friesland, Gelderland, Groningen, Limburg,
  Noord-Brabant, Noord-Holland, Overijssel, Utrecht, Zeeland,
  Zuid-Holland

Netherlands Antilles:
  none (part of the Kingdom of the Netherlands)

  note:  each island has its own government

New Caledonia:
  none (overseas territory of France); there are no
  first-order administrative divisions as defined by the US
  Government, but there are 3 provinces named Iles Loyaute, Nord, and
  Sud

New Zealand:
  93 counties, 9 districts*, and 3 town districts**;
  Akaroa, Amuri, Ashburton, Bay of Islands, Bruce, Buller, Chatham
  Islands, Cheviot, Clifton, Clutha, Cook, Dannevirke, Egmont,
  Eketahuna, Ellesmere, Eltham, Eyre, Featherston, Franklin, Golden
  Bay, Great Barrier Island, Grey, Hauraki Plains, Hawera*, Hawke's
  Bay, Heathcote, Hikurangi**, Hobson, Hokianga, Horowhenua, Hurunui,
  Hutt, Inangahua, Inglewood, Kaikoura, Kairanga, Kiwitea, Lake,
  Mackenzie, Malvern, Manaia**, Manawatu, Mangonui, Maniototo,
  Marlborough, Masterton, Matamata, Mount Herbert, Ohinemuri, Opotiki,
  Oroua, Otamatea, Otorohanga*, Oxford, Pahiatua, Paparua, Patea,
  Piako, Pohangina, Raglan, Rangiora*, Rangitikei, Rodney, Rotorua*,
  Runanga, Saint Kilda, Silverpeaks, Southland, Stewart Island,
  Stratford, Strathallan, Taranaki, Taumarunui, Taupo, Tauranga,
  Thames-Coromandel*, Tuapeka, Vincent, Waiapu, Waiheke, Waihemo,
  Waikato, Waikohu, Waimairi, Waimarino, Waimate, Waimate West,
  Waimea, Waipa, Waipawa*, Waipukurau*, Wairarapa South, Wairewa,
  Wairoa, Waitaki, Waitomo*, Waitotara, Wallace, Wanganui, Waverley**,
  Westland, Whakatane*, Whangarei, Whangaroa, Woodville

  note:  there may be a new administrative structure of 16 regions
  (Auckland, Bay of Plenty, Canterbury, Gisborne, Hawke's Bay,
  Marlborough, Nelson, Northland, Otago, Southland, Taranaki, Tasman,
  Waikato, Wanganui-Manawatu, Wellington, West Coast) that are
  subdivided into 57 districts and 16 cities* (Ashburton, Auckland*,
  Banks Peninsula, Buller, Carterton, Central Hawke's Bay, Central
  Otago, Christchurch*, Clutha, Dunedin*, Far North, Franklin,
  Gisborne, Gore, Grey, Hamilton*, Hastings, Hauraki, Horowhenua,
  Hurunui, Hutt*, Invercargill*, Kaikoura, Kaipara, Kapiti Coast,
  Kawerau, Mackenzie, Manawatu, Manukau*, Marlborough, Masterton,
  Matamata Piako, Napier*, Nelson*, New Plymouth, North Shore*,
  Opotiki, Otorohanga, Palmerston North*, Papakura*, Porirua*,
  Queenstown Lakes, Rangitikei, Rodney, Rotorua, Ruapehu, Selwyn,
  Southland, South Taranaki, South Waikato, South Wairarapa,
  Stratford, Tararua, Tasman, Taupo, Tauranga, Thames Coromandel,
  Timaru, Upper Hutt*, Waikato, Waimakariri, Waimate, Waipa, Wairoa,
  Waitakere*, Waitaki, Waitomo, Wanganui, Wellington*, Western Bay of
  Plenty, Westland, Whakatane, Whangarei)

Nicaragua:
  15 departments (departamentos, singular - departamento),
  2 autonomous regions* (regiones autonomistas, singular - region
  autonomista); Boaco, Carazo, Chinandega, Chontales, Esteli, Granada,
  Jinotega, Leon, Madriz, Managua, Masaya, Matagalpa, Nueva Segovia,
  Rio San Juan, Rivas, Atlantico Norte*, Atlantico Sur*

Niger:
  7 departments (departements, singular - departement), and 1
  capital district* (capitale district); Agadez, Diffa, Dosso, Maradi,
  Niamey*, Tahoua, Tillaberi, Zinder

Nigeria:
  36 states and 1 territory*; Abia, Abuja Federal Capital
  Territory*, Adamawa, Akwa Ibom, Anambra, Bauchi, Bayelsa, Benue,
  Borno, Cross River, Delta, Ebonyi, Edo, Ekiti, Enugu, Gombe, Imo,
  Jigawa, Kaduna, Kano, Katsina, Kebbi, Kogi, Kwara, Lagos, Nassarawa,
  Niger, Ogun, Ondo, Osun, Oyo, Plateau, Rivers, Sokoto, Taraba, Yobe,
  Zamfara

Niue:
  none; note - there are no first-order administrative divisions
  as defined by the US Government, but there are 14 villages each with
  its own village council whose members are elected and serve
  three-year terms

Norfolk Island:
  none (territory of Australia)

Northern Mariana Islands:
  none (commonwealth in political union with
  the US); there are no first-order administrative divisions as
  defined by the US Government, but there are four municipalities at
  the second order; Northern Islands, Rota, Saipan, Tinian

Norway:
  19 provinces (fylker, singular - fylke); Akershus,
  Aust-Agder, Buskerud, Finnmark, Hedmark, Hordaland, More og Romsdal,
  Nordland, Nord-Trondelag, Oppland, Oslo, Ostfold, Rogaland, Sogn og
  Fjordane, Sor-Trondelag, Telemark, Troms, Vest-Agder, Vestfold

Oman:
  6 regions (mintaqat, singular - mintaqah) and 2 governorates*
  (muhafazat, singular - muhafazah) Ad Dakhiliyah, Al Batinah, Al
  Wusta, Ash Sharqiyah, Az Zahirah, Masqat, Musandam*, Zufar*; note -
  the US Embassy in Oman reports that Masqat is a governorate, but
  this has not been confirmed by the US Board of Geographic Names (BGN)

Pakistan:
  4 provinces, 1 territory*, and 1 capital territory**;
  Balochistan, Federally Administered Tribal Areas*, Islamabad Capital
  Territory**, North-West Frontier Province, Punjab, Sindh

  note:  the Pakistani-administered portion of the disputed Jammu and
  Kashmir region includes Azad Kashmir and the Northern Areas

Palau:
  18 states; Aimeliik, Airai, Angaur, Hatobohei, Kayangel,
  Koror, Melekeok, Ngaraard, Ngarchelong, Ngardmau, Ngatpang,
  Ngchesar, Ngeremlengui, Ngiwal, Palau Island, Peleliu, Sonsoral, Tobi

Panama:
  9 provinces (provincias, singular - provincia) and one
  territory* (comarca); Bocas del Toro, Chiriqui, Cocle, Colon,
  Darien, Herrera, Los Santos, Panama, San Blas*, and Veraguas

Papua New Guinea:
  20 provinces; Bougainville, Central, Chimbu,
  Eastern Highlands, East New Britain, East Sepik, Enga, Gulf, Madang,
  Manus, Milne Bay, Morobe, National Capital, New Ireland, Northern,
  Sandaun, Southern Highlands, Western, Western Highlands, West New
  Britain

Paraguay:
  17 departments (departamentos, singular - departamento)
  and one capital city; Alto Paraguay, Alto Parana, Amambay, Asuncion
  (city), Boqueron, Caaguazu, Caazapa, Canindeyu, Central, Concepcion,
  Cordillera, Guaira, Itapua, Misiones, Neembucu, Paraguari,
  Presidente Hayes, San Pedro

Peru:
  24 departments (departamentos, singular - departamento) and 1
  constitutional province* (provincia constitucional); Amazonas,
  Ancash, Apurimac, Arequipa, Ayacucho, Cajamarca, Callao*, Cusco,
  Huancavelica, Huanuco, Ica, Junin, La Libertad, Lambayeque, Lima,
  Loreto, Madre de Dios, Moquegua, Pasco, Piura, Puno, San Martin,
  Tacna, Tumbes, Ucayali

  note:  the 1979 constitution mandated the creation of regions
  (regiones, singular - region) to function eventually as autonomous
  economic and administrative entities; so far, 12 regions have been
  constituted from 23 of the 24 departments - Amazonas (from Loreto),
  Andres Avelino Caceres (from Huanuco, Pasco, Junin), Arequipa (from
  Arequipa), Chavin (from Ancash), Grau (from Tumbes, Piura), Inca
  (from Cusco, Madre de Dios, Apurimac), La Libertad (from La
  Libertad), Los Libertadores-Huari (from Ica, Ayacucho,
  Huancavelica), Mariategui (from Moquegua, Tacna, Puno), Nor Oriental
  del Maranon (from Lambayeque, Cajamarca, Amazonas), San Martin (from
  San Martin), Ucayali (from Ucayali); formation of another region has
  been delayed by the reluctance of the constitutional province of
  Callao to merge with the department of Lima; because of inadequate
  funding from the central government and organizational and political
  difficulties, the regions have yet to assume major responsibilities;
  the 1993 constitution retains the regions but limits their
  authority; the 1993 constitution also reaffirms the roles of
  departmental and municipal governments

Philippines:
  73 provinces and 61 chartered cities*; Abra, Agusan del
  Norte, Agusan del Sur, Aklan, Albay, Angeles*, Antique, Aurora,
  Bacolod*, Bago*, Baguio*, Bais*, Basilan, Basilan City*, Bataan,
  Batanes, Batangas, Batangas City*, Benguet, Bohol, Bukidnon,
  Bulacan, Butuan*, Cabanatuan*, Cadiz*, Cagayan, Cagayan de Oro*,
  Calbayog*, Caloocan*, Camarines Norte, Camarines Sur, Camiguin,
  Canlaon*, Capiz, Catanduanes, Cavite, Cavite City*, Cebu, Cebu
  City*, Cotabato*, Dagupan*, Danao*, Dapitan*, Davao City* Davao,
  Davao del Sur, Davao Oriental, Dipolog*, Dumaguete*, Eastern Samar,
  General Santos*, Gingoog*, Ifugao, Iligan*, Ilocos Norte, Ilocos
  Sur, Iloilo, Iloilo City*, Iriga*, Isabela, Kalinga-Apayao, La
  Carlota*, Laguna, Lanao del Norte, Lanao del Sur, Laoag*,
  Lapu-Lapu*, La Union, Legaspi*, Leyte, Lipa*, Lucena*, Maguindanao,
  Mandaue*, Manila*, Marawi*, Marinduque, Masbate, Mindoro Occidental,
  Mindoro Oriental, Misamis Occidental, Misamis Oriental, Mountain,
  Naga*, Negros Occidental, Negros Oriental, North Cotabato, Northern
  Samar, Nueva Ecija, Nueva Vizcaya, Olongapo*, Ormoc*, Oroquieta*,
  Ozamis*, Pagadian*, Palawan, Palayan*, Pampanga, Pangasinan, Pasay*,
  Puerto Princesa*, Quezon, Quezon City*, Quirino, Rizal, Romblon,
  Roxas*, Samar, San Carlos* (in Negros Occidental), San Carlos* (in
  Pangasinan), San Jose*, San Pablo*, Silay*, Siquijor, Sorsogon,
  South Cotabato, Southern Leyte, Sultan Kudarat, Sulu, Surigao*,
  Surigao del Norte, Surigao del Sur, Tacloban*, Tagaytay*,
  Tagbilaran*, Tangub*, Tarlac, Tawitawi, Toledo*, Trece Martires*,
  Zambales, Zamboanga*, Zamboanga del Norte, Zamboanga del Sur

Pitcairn Islands:
  none (overseas territory of the UK)

Poland:
  16 provinces (wojewodztwa, singular - wojewodztwo);
  Dolnoslaskie, Kujawsko-Pomorskie, Lodzkie, Lubelskie, Lubuskie,
  Malopolskie, Mazowieckie, Opolskie, Podkarpackie, Podlaskie,
  Pomorskie, Slaskie, Swietokrzyskie, Warminsko-Mazurskie,
  Wielkopolskie, Zachodniopomorskie

Portugal:
  18 districts (distritos, singular - distrito) and 2
  autonomous regions* (regioes autonomas, singular - regiao autonoma);
  Aveiro, Acores (Azores)*, Beja, Braga, Braganca, Castelo Branco,
  Coimbra, Evora, Faro, Guarda, Leiria, Lisboa, Madeira*, Portalegre,
  Porto, Santarem, Setubal, Viana do Castelo, Vila Real, Viseu

Puerto Rico:
  none (commonwealth associated with the US); there are
  no first-order administrative divisions as defined by the US
  Government, but there are 78 municipalities (municipios, singular -
  municipio) at the second order; Adjuntas, Aguada, Aguadilla, Aguas
  Buenas, Aibonito, Anasco, Arecibo, Arroyo, Barceloneta,
  Barranquitas, Bayamon, Cabo Rojo, Caguas, Camuy, Canovanas,
  Carolina, Catano, Cayey, Ceiba, Ciales, Cidra, Coamo, Comerio,
  Corozal, Culebra, Dorado, Fajardo, Florida, Guanica, Guayama,
  Guayanilla, Guaynabo, Gurabo, Hatillo, Hormigueros, Humacao,
  Isabela, Jayuya, Juana Diaz, Juncos, Lajas, Lares, Las Marias, Las
  Piedras, Loiza, Luquillo, Manati, Maricao, Maunabo, Mayaguez, Moca,
  Morovis, Naguabo, Naranjito, Orocovis, Patillas, Penuelas, Ponce,
  Quebradillas, Rincon, Rio Grande, Sabana Grande, Salinas, San
  German, San Juan, San Lorenzo, San Sebastian, Santa Isabel, Toa
  Alta, Toa Baja, Trujillo Alto, Utuado, Vega Alta, Vega Baja,
  Vieques, Villalba, Yabucoa, Yauco

Qatar:
  9 municipalities (baladiyat, singular - baladiyah); Ad
  Dawhah, Al Ghuwayriyah, Al Jumayliyah, Al Khawr, Al Wakrah, Ar
  Rayyan, Jarayan al Batinah, Madinat ash Shamal, Umm Salal

Reunion:
  none (overseas department of France); there are no
  first-order administrative divisions as defined by the US
  Government, but there are 4 arrondissements, 24 communes, and 47
  cantons

Romania:
  40 counties (judete, singular - judet) and 1 municipality*
  (municipiu); Alba, Arad, Arges, Bacau, Bihor, Bistrita-Nasaud,
  Botosani, Braila, Brasov, Bucuresti*, Buzau, Calarasi,
  Caras-Severin, Cluj, Constanta, Covasna, Dimbovita, Dolj, Galati,
  Gorj, Giurgiu, Harghita, Hunedoara, Ialomita, Iasi, Maramures,
  Mehedinti, Mures, Neamt, Olt, Prahova, Salaj, Satu Mare, Sibiu,
  Suceava, Teleorman, Timis, Tulcea, Vaslui, Vilcea, Vrancea

Russia:
  49 oblasts (oblastey, singular - oblast), 21 republics*
  (respublik, singular - respublika), 10 autonomous
  okrugs**(avtonomnykh okrugov, singular - avtonomnyy okrug), 6
  krays*** (krayev, singular - kray), 2 federal cities (singular -
  gorod)****, and 1 autonomous oblast*****(avtonomnaya oblast');
  Adygeya (Maykop)*, Aginskiy Buryatskiy (Aginskoye)**, Altay
  (Gorno-Altaysk)*, Altayskiy (Barnaul)***, Amurskaya
  (Blagoveshchensk), Arkhangel'skaya, Astrakhanskaya, Bashkortostan
  (Ufa)*, Belgorodskaya, Bryanskaya, Buryatiya (Ulan-Ude)*, Chechnya
  (Groznyy)*, Chelyabinskaya, Chitinskaya, Chukotskiy (Anadyr')**,
  Chuvashiya (Cheboksary)*, Dagestan (Makhachkala)*, Evenkiyskiy
  (Tura)**, Ingushetiya (Nazran')*, Irkutskaya, Ivanovskaya,
  Kabardino-Balkariya (Nal'chik)*, Kaliningradskaya, Kalmykiya
  (Elista)*, Kaluzhskaya, Kamchatskaya (Petropavlovsk-Kamchatskiy),
  Karachayevo-Cherkesiya (Cherkessk)*, Kareliya (Petrozavodsk)*,
  Kemerovskaya, Khabarovskiy***, Khakasiya (Abakan)*,
  Khanty-Mansiyskiy (Khanty-Mansiysk)**, Kirovskaya, Komi
  (Syktyvkar)*, Koryakskiy (Palana)**, Kostromskaya, Krasnodarskiy***,
  Krasnoyarskiy***, Kurganskaya, Kurskaya, Leningradskaya, Lipetskaya,
  Magadanskaya, Mariy-El (Yoshkar-Ola)*, Mordoviya (Saransk)*,
  Moskovskaya, Moskva (Moscow)****, Murmanskaya, Nenetskiy
  (Nar'yan-Mar)**, Nizhegorodskaya, Novgorodskaya, Novosibirskaya,
  Omskaya, Orenburgskaya, Orlovskaya (Orel), Penzenskaya, Permskaya,
  Komi-Permyatskiy (Kudymkar)**, Primorskiy (Vladivostok)***,
  Pskovskaya, Rostovskaya, Ryazanskaya, Sakha (Yakutsk)*,
  Sakhalinskaya (Yuzhno-Sakhalinsk), Samarskaya, Sankt-Peterburg
  (Saint Petersburg)****, Saratovskaya, Severnaya Osetiya-Alaniya
  [North Ossetia] (Vladikavkaz)*, Smolenskaya, Stavropol'skiy***,
  Sverdlovskaya (Yekaterinburg), Tambovskaya, Tatarstan (Kazan')*,
  Taymyrskiy (Dudinka)**, Tomskaya, Tul'skaya, Tverskaya, Tyumenskaya,
  Tyva (Kyzyl)*, Udmurtiya (Izhevsk)*, Ul'yanovskaya, Ust'-Ordynskiy
  Buryatskiy (Ust'-Ordynskiy)**, Vladimirskaya, Volgogradskaya,
  Vologodskaya, Voronezhskaya, Yamalo-Nenetskiy (Salekhard)**,
  Yaroslavskaya, Yevreyskaya*****; note - when using a place name with
  an adjectival ending 'skaya' or 'skiy,' the word Oblast' or
  Avonomnyy Okrug or Kray should be added to the place name

  note:  the autonomous republics of Chechnya and Ingushetiya were
  formerly the autonomous republic of Checheno-Ingushetia (the
  boundary between Chechnya and Ingushetia has yet to be determined);
  administrative divisions have the same names as their administrative
  centers (exceptions have the administrative center name following in
  parentheses)

Rwanda:
  12 prefectures (in French - prefectures, singular -
  prefecture; in Kinyarwanda - plural - NA, singular - prefegitura);
  Butare, Byumba, Cyangugu, Gikongoro, Gisenyi, Gitarama, Kibungo,
  Kibuye, Kigali Rurale, Kigali-ville, Umutara, Ruhengeri

Saint Helena:
  1 administrative area and 2 dependencies*; Ascension*,
  Saint Helena, Tristan da Cunha*

Saint Kitts and Nevis:
  14 parishes; Christ Church Nichola Town,
  Saint Anne Sandy Point, Saint George Basseterre, Saint George
  Gingerland, Saint James Windward, Saint John Capisterre, Saint John
  Figtree, Saint Mary Cayon, Saint Paul Capisterre, Saint Paul
  Charlestown, Saint Peter Basseterre, Saint Thomas Lowland, Saint
  Thomas Middle Island, Trinity Palmetto Point

Saint Lucia:
  11 quarters; Anse-la-Raye, Castries, Choiseul, Dauphin,
  Dennery, Gros Islet, Laborie, Micoud, Praslin, Soufriere, Vieux Fort

Saint Pierre and Miquelon:
  none (territorial collectivity of
  France); note - there are no first-order administrative divisions
  approved by the US Government, but there are two communes - Saint
  Pierre, Miquelon

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:
  6 parishes; Charlotte, Grenadines,
  Saint Andrew, Saint David, Saint George, Saint Patrick

Samoa:
  11 districts; A'ana, Aiga-i-le-Tai, Atua, Fa'asaleleaga,
  Gaga'emauga, Gagaifomauga, Palauli, Satupa'itea, Tuamasaga,
  Va'a-o-Fonoti, Vaisigano

San Marino:
  9 municipalities (castelli, singular - castello);
  Acquaviva, Borgo Maggiore, Chiesanuova, Domagnano, Faetano,
  Fiorentino, Monte Giardino, San Marino, Serravalle

Sao Tome and Principe:
  2 provinces; Principe, Sao Tome

  note:  Principe has had self-government since 29 April 1995

Saudi Arabia:
  13 provinces (mintaqat, singular - mintaqah); Al
  Bahah, Al Hudud ash Shamaliyah, Al Jawf, Al Madinah, Al Qasim, Ar
  Riyad, Ash Sharqiyah (Eastern Province), 'Asir, Ha'il, Jizan,
  Makkah, Najran, Tabuk

Senegal:
  10 regions (regions, singular - region); Dakar, Diourbel,
  Fatick, Kaolack, Kolda, Louga, Saint-Louis, Tambacounda, Thies,
  Ziguinchor

Seychelles:
  23 administrative districts; Anse aux Pins, Anse
  Boileau, Anse Etoile, Anse Louis, Anse Royale, Baie Lazare, Baie
  Sainte Anne, Beau Vallon, Bel Air, Bel Ombre, Cascade, Glacis,
  Grand' Anse (on Mahe), Grand' Anse (on Praslin), La Digue, La
  Riviere Anglaise, Mont Buxton, Mont Fleuri, Plaisance, Pointe La
  Rue, Port Glaud, Saint Louis, Takamaka

Sierra Leone:
  3 provinces and 1 area*; Eastern, Northern, Southern,
  Western*

Singapore:
  none

Slovakia:
  8 regions (kraje, singular - kraj); Banskobystricky,
  Bratislavsky, Kosicky, Nitriansky, Presovsky, Trenciansky, Trnavsky,
  Zilinsky

Slovenia:
  136 municipalities (obcine, singular - obcina) and 11
  urban municipalities* (mestne obcine , singular - mestna obcina )
  Ajdovscina, Beltinci, Bled, Bohinj, Borovnica, Bovec, Brda, Brezice,
  Brezovica, Cankova-Tisina, Celje*, Cerklje na Gorenjskem, Cerknica,
  Cerkno, Crensovci, Crna na Koroskem, Crnomelj, Destrnik-Trnovska
  Vas, Divaca, Dobrepolje, Dobrova-Horjul-Polhov Gradec, Dol pri
  Ljubljani, Domzale, Dornava, Dravograd, Duplek, Gorenja Vas-Poljane,
  Gorisnica, Gornja Radgona, Gornji Grad, Gornji Petrovci, Grosuplje,
  Hodos Salovci, Hrastnik, Hrpelje-Kozina, Idrija, Ig, Ilirska
  Bistrica, Ivancna Gorica, Izola, Jesenice, Jursinci, Kamnik, Kanal,
  Kidricevo, Kobarid, Kobilje, Kocevje, Komen, Koper*, Kozje, Kranj*,
  Kranjska Gora, Krsko, Kungota, Kuzma, Lasko, Lenart, Lendava,
  Litija, Ljubljana*, Ljubno, Ljutomer, Logatec, Loska Dolina, Loski
  Potok, Luce, Lukovica, Majsperk, Maribor*, Medvode, Menges, Metlika,
  Mezica, Miren-Kostanjevica, Mislinja, Moravce, Moravske Toplice,
  Mozirje, Murska Sobota*, Muta, Naklo, Nazarje, Nova Gorica*, Novo
  Mesto*, Odranci, Ormoz, Osilnica, Pesnica, Piran, Pivka, Podcetrtek,
  Podvelka-Ribnica, Postojna, Preddvor, Ptuj*, Puconci, Race-Fram,
  Radece, Radenci, Radlje ob Dravi, Radovljica, Ravne-Prevalje,
  Ribnica, Rogasevci, Rogaska Slatina, Rogatec, Ruse, Semic, Sencur,
  Sentilj, Sentjernej, Sentjur pri Celju, Sevnica, Sezana, Skocjan,
  Skofja Loka, Skofljica, Slovenj Gradec*, Slovenska Bistrica,
  Slovenske Konjice, Smarje pri Jelsah, Smartno ob Paki, Sostanj,
  Starse, Store, Sveti Jurij, Tolmin, Trbovlje, Trebnje, Trzic,
  Turnisce, Velenje*, Velike Lasce, Videm, Vipava, Vitanje, Vodice,
  Vojnik, Vrhnika, Vuzenica, Zagorje ob Savi, Zalec, Zavrc, Zelezniki,
  Ziri, Zrece

  note:  there may be 45 more municipalities

Solomon Islands:
  7 provinces and 1 town*; Central, Guadalcanal,
  Honiara*, Isabel, Makira, Malaita, Temotu, Western; note - there may
  be two new provinces of Choiseul (Lauru) and Rennell/Bellona and the
  administrative unit of Honiara may have been abolished

Somalia:
  18 regions (plural - NA, singular - gobolka); Awdal,
  Bakool, Banaadir, Bari, Bay, Galguduud, Gedo, Hiiraan, Jubbada
  Dhexe, Jubbada Hoose, Mudug, Nugaal, Sanaag, Shabeellaha Dhexe,
  Shabeellaha Hoose, Sool, Togdheer, Woqooyi Galbeed

South Africa:
  9 provinces; Eastern Cape, Free State, Gauteng,
  KwaZulu-Natal, Mpumalanga, North-West, Northern Cape, Northern
  Province, Western Cape

Spain:
  17 autonomous communities (comunidades autonomas, singular -
  comunidad autonoma); Andalucia, Aragon, Asturias, Baleares (Balearic
  Islands), Canarias (Canary Islands), Cantabria, Castilla-La Mancha,
  Castilla y Leon, Cataluna, Communidad Valencian, Extremadura,
  Galicia, La Rioja, Madrid, Murcia, Navarra, Pais Vasco (Basque
  Country)

  note:  there are five places of sovereignty on and off the coast of
  Morocco: Ceuta and Melilla are administered as autonomous
  communities; Islas Chafarinas, Penon de Alhucemas, and Penon de
  Velez de la Gomera are under direct Spanish administration

Sri Lanka:
  8 provinces; Central, North Central, North Eastern, North
  Western, Sabaragamuwa, Southern, Uva, Western; note - North Eastern
  province may have been divided in two - Northern and Eastern

Sudan:
  26 states (wilayat, singular - wilayah); A'ali an Nil, Al
  Bahr al Ahmar, Al Buhayrat, Al Jazirah, Al Khartum, Al Qadarif, Al
  Wahdah, An Nil al Abyad, An Nil al Azraq, Ash Shamaliyah, Bahr al
  Jabal, Gharb al Istiwa'iyah, Gharb Bahr al Ghazal, Gharb Darfur,
  Gharb Kurdufan, Janub Darfur, Janub Kurdufan, Junqali, Kassala, Nahr
  an Nil, Shamal Bahr al Ghazal, Shamal Darfur, Shamal Kurdufan, Sharq
  al Istiwa'iyah, Sinnar, Warab

Suriname:
  10 districts (distrikten, singular - distrikt);
  Brokopondo, Commewijne, Coronie, Marowijne, Nickerie, Para,
  Paramaribo, Saramacca, Sipaliwini, Wanica

Swaziland:
  4 districts; Hhohho, Lubombo, Manzini, Shiselweni

Sweden:
  21 counties (lan, singular and plural); Blekinge, Dalarnas,
  Gavleborgs, Gotlands, Hallands, Jamtlands, Jonkopings, Kalmar,
  Kronobergs, Norrbottens, Orebro, Ostergotlands, Skane,
  Sodermanlands, Stockholms, Uppsala, Varmlands, Vasterbottens,
  Vasternorrlands, Vastmanlands, Vastra Gotalands

Switzerland:
  26 cantons (cantons, singular - canton in French;
  cantoni, singular - cantone in Italian; kantone, singular - kanton
  in German); Aargau, Ausser-Rhoden, Basel-Landschaft, Basel-Stadt,
  Bern, Fribourg, Geneve, Glarus, Graubunden, Inner-Rhoden, Jura,
  Luzern, Neuchatel, Nidwalden, Obwalden, Sankt Gallen, Schaffhausen,
  Schwyz, Solothurn, Thurgau, Ticino, Uri, Valais, Vaud, Zug, Zurich

Syria:
  14 provinces (muhafazat, singular - muhafazah); Al Hasakah,
  Al Ladhiqiyah, Al Qunaytirah, Ar Raqqah, As Suwayda', Dar'a, Dayr az
  Zawr, Dimashq, Halab, Hamah, Hims, Idlib, Rif Dimashq, Tartus

Tajikistan:
  2 oblasts (viloyatho, singular - viloyat) and one
  autonomous oblast* (viloyati mukhtori); Viloyati Mukhtori Kuhistoni
  Badakhshon* (Khorugh - formerly Khorog), Viloyati Khatlon
  (Qurghonteppa - formerly Kurgan-Tyube), Viloyati Leninobod (Khujand
  - formerly Leninabad)

  note:  the administrative center name follows in parentheses

Tanzania:
  25 regions; Arusha, Dar es Salaam, Dodoma, Iringa, Kagera,
  Kigoma, Kilimanjaro, Lindi, Mara, Mbeya, Morogoro, Mtwara, Mwanza,
  Pemba North, Pemba South, Pwani, Rukwa, Ruvuma, Shinyanga, Singida,
  Tabora, Tanga, Zanzibar Central/South, Zanzibar North, Zanzibar
  Urban/West

Thailand:
  76 provinces (changwat, singular and plural); Amnat
  Charoen, Ang Thong, Buriram, Chachoengsao, Chai Nat, Chaiyaphum,
  Chanthaburi, Chiang Mai, Chiang Rai, Chon Buri, Chumphon, Kalasin,
  Kamphaeng Phet, Kanchanaburi, Khon Kaen, Krabi, Krung Thep
  Mahanakhon (Bangkok), Lampang, Lamphun, Loei, Lop Buri, Mae Hong
  Son, Maha Sarakham, Mukdahan, Nakhon Nayok, Nakhon Pathom, Nakhon
  Phanom, Nakhon Ratchasima, Nakhon Sawan, Nakhon Si Thammarat, Nan,
  Narathiwat, Nong Bua Lamphu, Nong Khai, Nonthaburi, Pathum Thani,
  Pattani, Phangnga, Phatthalung, Phayao, Phetchabun, Phetchaburi,
  Phichit, Phitsanulok, Phra Nakhon Si Ayutthaya, Phrae, Phuket,
  Prachin Buri, Prachuap Khiri Khan, Ranong, Ratchaburi, Rayong, Roi
  Et, Sa Kaeo, Sakon Nakhon, Samut Prakan, Samut Sakhon, Samut
  Songkhram, Sara Buri, Satun, Sing Buri, Sisaket, Songkhla,
  Sukhothai, Suphan Buri, Surat Thani, Surin, Tak, Trang, Trat, Ubon
  Ratchathani, Udon Thani, Uthai Thani, Uttaradit, Yala, Yasothon

Togo:
  5 regions (regions, singular - region); De La Kara, Des
  Plateaux, Des Savanes, Du Centre, Maritime

Tokelau:
  none (territory of New Zealand)

Tonga:
  3 island groups; Ha'apai, Tongatapu, Vava'u

Trinidad and Tobago:
  8 counties, 3 municipalities*, and 1 ward**;
  Arima*, Caroni, Mayaro, Nariva, Port-of-Spain*, Saint Andrew, Saint
  David, Saint George, Saint Patrick, San Fernando*, Tobago**, Victoria

Tunisia:
  23 governorates; Ariana (Aryanah), Beja (Bajah), Ben Arous
  (Bin 'Arus), Bizerte (Banzart), El Kef (Al Kaf), Gabes (Qabis),
  Gafsa (Qafsah), Jendouba (Jundubah), Kairouan (Al Qayrawan),
  Kasserine (Al Qasrayn), Kebili (Qibili), Mahdia (Al Mahdiyah),
  Medenine (Madanin), Monastir (Al Munastir), Nabeul (Nabul), Sfax
  (Safaqis), Sidi Bou Zid (Sidi Bu Zayd), Siliana (Silyanah), Sousse
  (Susah), Tataouine (Tatawin), Tozeur (Tawzar), Tunis, Zaghouan
  (Zaghwan)

Turkey:
  80 provinces (iller, singular - il); Adana, Adiyaman, Afyon,
  Agri, Aksaray, Amasya, Ankara, Antalya, Ardahan, Artvin, Aydin,
  Balikesir, Bartin, Batman, Bayburt, Bilecik, Bingol, Bitlis, Bolu,
  Burdur, Bursa, Canakkale, Cankiri, Corum, Denizli, Diyarbakir,
  Edirne, Elazig, Erzincan, Erzurum, Eskisehir, Gaziantep, Giresun,
  Gumushane, Hakkari, Hatay, Icel, Igdir, Isparta, Istanbul, Izmir,
  Kahramanmaras, Karabuk, Karaman, Kars, Kastamonu, Kayseri, Kilis,
  Kirikkale, Kirklareli, Kirsehir, Kocaeli, Konya, Kutahya, Malatya,
  Manisa, Mardin, Mugla, Mus, Nevsehir, Nigde, Ordu, Osmaniye, Rize,
  Sakarya, Samsun, Sanliurfa, Siirt, Sinop, Sirnak, Sivas, Tekirdag,
  Tokat, Trabzon, Tunceli, Usak, Van, Yalova, Yozgat, Zonguldak; note
  - there may be another province called Duzce

Turkmenistan:
  5 welayatlar (singular - welayat): Ahal Welayaty
  (Ashgabat), Balkan Welayaty (Nebitdag), Dashhowuz Welayaty (formerly
  Tashauz), Lebap Welayaty (Charjew), Mary Welayaty

  note:  administrative divisions have the same names as their
  administrative centers (exceptions have the administrative center
  name following in parentheses)

Turks and Caicos Islands:
  none (overseas territory of the UK)

Tuvalu:
  none

Uganda:
  45 districts; Adjumani, Apac, Arua, Bugiri, Bundibugyo,
  Bushenyi, Busia, Gulu, Hoima, Iganga, Jinja, Kabale, Kabarole,
  Kalangala, Kampala, Kamuli, Kapchorwa, Kasese, Katakwi, Kibale,
  Kiboga, Kisoro, Kitgum, Kotido, Kumi, Lira, Luwero, Masaka, Masindi,
  Mbale, Mbarara, Moroto, Moyo, Mpigi, Mubende, Mukono, Nakasongola,
  Nebbi, Ntungamo, Pallisa, Rakai, Rukungiri, Sembabule, Soroti, Tororo

Ukraine:
  24 oblasti (singular - oblast'), 1 autonomous republic*
  (avtomnaya respublika), and 2 municipalities (mista, singular -
  misto) with oblast status**; Cherkas'ka (Cherkasy), Chernihivs'ka
  (Chernihiv), Chernivets'ka (Chernivtsi), Dnipropetrovs'ka
  (Dnipropetrovs'k), Donets'ka (Donets'k), Ivano-Frankivs'ka
  (Ivano-Frankivs'k), Kharkivs'ka (Kharkiv), Khersons'ka (Kherson),
  Khmel'nyts'ka (Khmel'nyts'kyy), Kirovohrads'ka (Kirovohrad),
  Kyyiv**, Kyyivs'ka (Kiev), Luhans'ka (Luhans'k), L'vivs'ka (L'viv),
  Mykolayivs'ka (Mykolayiv), Odes'ka (Odesa), Poltavs'ka (Poltava),
  Avtonomna Respublika Krym* (Simferopol'), Rivnens'ka (Rivne),
  Sevastopol'**, Sums'ka (Sumy), Ternopil's'ka (Ternopil'), Vinnyts'ka
  (Vinnytsya), Volyns'ka (Luts'k), Zakarpats'ka (Uzhhorod), Zaporiz'ka
  (Zaporizhzhya), Zhytomyrs'ka (Zhytomyr); note - when using a place
  name with an adjectival ending 's'ka' or 'z'ka,' the word Oblast'
  should be added to the place name

  note:  oblasts have the administrative center name following in
  parentheses

United Arab Emirates:
  7 emirates (imarat, singular - imarah); Abu
  Zaby (Abu Dhabi), 'Ajman, Al Fujayrah, Ash Shariqah (Sharjah),
  Dubayy (Dubai), Ra's al Khaymah, Umm al Qaywayn

United Kingdom:
  England - 47 boroughs, 36 counties*, 29 London
  boroughs**, 12 cities and boroughs***, 10 districts****, 12
  cities*****, 3 royal boroughs******; Barking and Dagenham**,
  Barnet**, Barnsley, Bath and North East Somerset****, Bedfordshire*,
  Bexley**, Birmingham***, Blackburn with Darwen, Blackpool, Bolton,
  Bournemouth, Bracknell Forest, Bradford***, Brent**, Brighton and
  Hove, City of Bristol*****, Bromley**, Buckinghamshire*, Bury,
  Calderdale, Cambridgeshire*, Camden**, Cheshire*, Cornwall*,
  Coventry***, Croydon**, Cumbria*, Darlington, Derby*****,
  Derbyshire*, Devon*, Doncaster, Dorset*, Dudley, Durham*, Ealing**,
  East Riding of Yorkshire****, East Sussex*, Enfield**, Essex*,
  Gateshead, Gloucestershire*, Greenwich**, Hackney**, Halton,
  Hammersmith and Fulham**, Hampshire*, Haringey**, Harrow**,
  Hartlepool, Havering**, Herefordshire*, Hertfordshire*,
  Hillingdon**, Hounslow**, Isle of Wight*, Islington**, Kensington
  and Chelsea******, Kent*, City of Kingston upon Hull*****, Kingston
  upon Thames******, Kirklees, Knowsley, Lambeth**, Lancashire*,
  Leeds***, Leicester*****, Leicestershire*, Lewisham**,
  Lincolnshire*, Liverpool***, City of London*****, Luton,
  Manchester***, Medway, Merton**, Middlesbrough, Milton Keynes,
  Newcastle upon Tyne***, Newham**, Norfolk*, Northamptonshire*, North
  East Lincolnshire****, North Lincolnshire****, North Somerset****,
  North Tyneside, Northumberland*, North Yorkshire*, Nottingham*****,
  Nottinghamshire*, Oldham, Oxfordshire*, Peterborough*****,
  Plymouth*****, Poole, Portsmouth*****, Reading, Redbridge**, Redcar
  and Cleveland, Richmond upon Thames**, Rochdale, Rotherham,
  Rutland****, Salford***, Shropshire*, Sandwell, Sefton,
  Sheffield***, Slough, Solihull, Somerset*, Southampton*****,
  Southend-on-Sea, South Gloucestershire****, South Tyneside,
  Southwark**, Staffordshire*, St. Helens, Stockport,
  Stockton-on-Tees, Stoke-on-Trent*****, Suffolk*, Sunderland***,
  Surrey*, Sutton**, Swindon, Tameside, Telford and Wrekin****,
  Thurrock, Torbay, Tower Hamlets**, Trafford, Wakefield***, Walsall,
  Waltham Forest**, Wandsworth**, Warrington, Warwickshire*, West
  Berkshire****, Westminster***, West Sussex*, Wigan, Wiltshire*,
  Windsor and Maidenhead******, Wirral, Wokingham****, Wolverhampton,
  Worcestershire*, York*****; Northern Ireland - 24 districts, 2
  cities*; Antrim, Ards, Armagh, Ballymena, Ballymoney, Banbridge,
  Belfast*, Carrickfergus, Castlereagh, Coleraine, Cookstown,
  Craigavon, Down, Dungannon, Fermanagh, Larne, Limavady, Lisburn,
  Derry*, Magherafelt, Moyle, Newry and Mourne, Newtownabbey, North
  Down, Omagh, Strabane; Scotland - 32 council areas; Aberdeen City,
  Aberdeenshire, Angus, Argyll and Bute, The Scottish Borders,
  Clackmannanshire, Dumfries and Galloway, Dundee City, East Ayrshire,
  East Dunbartonshire, East Lothian, East Renfrewshire, City of
  Edinburgh, Falkirk, Fife, Glasgow City, Highland, Inverclyde,
  Midlothian, Moray, North Ayrshire, North Lanarkshire, Orkney
  Islands, Perth and Kinross, Renfrewshire, Shetland Islands, South
  Ayrshire, South Lanarkshire, Stirling, West Dunbartonshire, Eilean
  Siar (Western Isles), West Lothian; Wales - 11 county boroughs, 9
  counties*, 2 cities and counties**; Isle of Anglesey*, Blaenau
  Gwent, Bridgend, Caerphilly, Cardiff**, Ceredigion*,
  Carmarthenshire*, Conwy, Denbighshire*, Flintshire*, Gwynedd,
  Merthyr Tydfil, Monmouthshire*, Neath Port Talbot, Newport,
  Pembrokeshire*, Powys*, Rhondda Cynon Taff, Swansea**, Torfaen, The
  Vale of Glamorgan*, Wrexham

United States:
  50 states and 1 district*; Alabama, Alaska, Arizona,
  Arkansas, California, Colorado, Connecticut, Delaware, District of
  Columbia*, Florida, Georgia, Hawaii, Idaho, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa,
  Kansas, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts,
  Michigan, Minnesota, Mississippi, Missouri, Montana, Nebraska,
  Nevada, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New Mexico, New York, North
  Carolina, North Dakota, Ohio, Oklahoma, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Rhode
  Island, South Carolina, South Dakota, Tennessee, Texas, Utah,
  Vermont, Virginia, Washington, West Virginia, Wisconsin, Wyoming

Uruguay:
  19 departments (departamentos, singular - departamento);
  Artigas, Canelones, Cerro Largo, Colonia, Durazno, Flores, Florida,
  Lavalleja, Maldonado, Montevideo, Paysandu, Rio Negro, Rivera,
  Rocha, Salto, San Jose, Soriano, Tacuarembo, Treinta y Tres

Uzbekistan:
  12 wiloyatlar (singular - wiloyat), 1 autonomous
  republic* (respublikasi), and 1 city** (shahri); Andijon Wiloyati,
  Bukhoro Wiloyati, Farghona Wiloyati, Jizzakh Wiloyati, Khorazm
  Wiloyati (Urganch), Namangan Wiloyati, Nawoiy Wiloyati, Qashqadaryo
  Wiloyati (Qarshi), Qoraqalpoghiston* (Nukus), Samarqand Wiloyati,
  Sirdaryo Wiloyati (Guliston), Surkhondaryo Wiloyati (Termiz),
  Toshkent Shahri**, Toshkent Wiloyati

  note:  administrative divisions have the same names as their
  administrative centers (exceptions have the administrative center
  name following in parentheses)

Vanuatu:
  6 provinces; Malampa, Penama, Sanma, Shefa, Tafea, Torba

Venezuela:
  23 states (estados, singular - estado),1 federal
  district* (distrito federal), and 1 federal dependency**
  (dependencia federal); Amazonas, Anzoategui, Apure, Aragua, Barinas,
  Bolivar, Carabobo, Cojedes, Delta Amacuro, Dependencias Federales**,
  Distrito Federal*, Falcon, Guarico, Lara, Merida, Miranda, Monagas,
  Nueva Esparta, Portuguesa, Sucre, Tachira, Trujillo, Vargas,
  Yaracuy, Zulia

  note:  the federal dependency consists of 11 federally controlled
  island groups with a total of 72 individual islands

Vietnam:
  58 provinces (tinh, singular and plural), 3 municipalities*
  (thu do, singular and plural); An Giang, Bac Giang, Bac Kan, Bac
  Lieu, Bac Ninh, Ba Ria-Vung Tau, Ben Tre, Binh Dinh, Binh Duong,
  Binh Phuoc, Binh Thuan, Ca Mau, Can Tho, Cao Bang, Dac Lak, Da Nang,
  Dong Nai, Dong Thap, Gia Lai, Ha Giang, Hai Duong, Hai Phong*, Ha
  Nam, Ha Noi*, Ha Tay, Ha Tinh, Hoa Binh, Ho Chi Minh*, Hung Yen,
  Khanh Hoa, Kien Giang, Kon Tum, Lai Chau, Lam Dong, Lang Son, Lao
  Cai, Long An, Nam Dinh, Nghe An, Ninh Binh, Ninh Thuan, Phu Tho, Phu
  Yen, Quang Binh, Quang Nam, Quang Ngai, Quang Ninh, Quang Tri, Soc
  Trang, Son La, Tay Ninh, Thai Binh, Thai Nguyen, Thanh Hoa, Thua
  Thien-Hue, Tien Giang, Tra Vinh, Tuyen Quang, Vinh Long, Vinh Phuc,
  Yen Bai

Virgin Islands:
  none (territory of the US); there are no first-order
  administrative divisions as defined by the US Government, but there
  are three islands at the second order; Saint Croix, Saint John,
  Saint Thomas

Wallis and Futuna:
  none (overseas territory of France); there are no
  first-order administrative divisions as defined by the US
  Government, but there are three kingdoms named Alo, Sigave, Wallis

Western Sahara:
  none (under de facto control of Morocco)

World:
  267 nations, dependent areas, other, and miscellaneous entries

Yemen:
  17 governorates (muhafazat, singular - muhafazah); Abyan,
  'Adan, Al Bayda', Al Hudaydah, Al Jawf, Al Mahrah, Al Mahwit, 'Ataq,
  Dhamar, Hadhramawt, Hajjah, Ibb, Lahij, Ma'rib, Sa'dah, San'a',
  Ta'izz

  note:  there may be three more governorates: Al Daleh, Shabwah, and
  the capital city of Sana'a

Yugoslavia:
  2 republics (republike, singular - republika); and 2
  nominally autonomous provinces* (autonomn pokrajine, singular -
  autonomna pokrajina); Kosovo*, Montenegro, Serbia, Vojvodina*

Zambia:
  9 provinces; Central, Copperbelt, Eastern, Luapula, Lusaka,
  Northern, North-Western, Southern, Western

Zimbabwe:
  8 provinces and 2 cities* with provincial status;
  Bulawayo*, Harare*, Manicaland, Mashonaland Central, Mashonaland
  East, Mashonaland West, Masvingo, Matabeleland North, Matabeleland
  South, Midlands

Taiwan:
  since in the past the authorities claimed to be the
  government of all China, the central administrative divisions
  include the provinces of Fu-chien (some 20 offshore islands of
  Fujian Province including Quemoy and Matsu) and Taiwan (the island
  of Taiwan and the Pescadores islands); note - the more commonly
  referenced administrative divisions are those of Taiwan Province -
  16 counties (hsien, singular and plural), 5 municipalities* (shih,
  singular and plural), and 2 special municipalities** (chuan-shih,
  singular and plural); Chang-hua, Chia-i, Chia-i*, Chi-lung*,
  Hsin-chu, Hsin-chu*, Hua-lien, I-lan, Kao-hsiung, Kao-hsiung**,
  Miao-li, Nan-t'ou, P'eng-hu, P'ing-tung, T'ai-chung, T'ai-chung*,
  T'ai-nan, T'ai-nan*, T'ai-pei, T'ai-pei**, T'ai-tung, T'ao-yuan, and
  Yun-lin; the provincial capital is at Chung-hsing-hsin-ts'un

  note:  Taiwan uses the Wade-Giles system for romanization

======================================================================

@Age structure



Afghanistan:
  0-14 years:  42.2% (male 5,775,921; female 5,538,836)

  15-64 years:  55.01% (male 7,644,242; female 7,106,568)

  65 years and over:  2.79% (male 394,444; female 353,046) (2001 est.)

Albania:
  0-14 years:  29.53% (male 536,495; female 500,026)

  15-64 years:  63.48% (male 1,073,351; female 1,155,115)

  65 years and over:  6.99% (male 107,476; female 138,021) (2001 est.)

Algeria:
  0-14 years:  34.21% (male 5,528,755; female 5,328,083)

  15-64 years:  61.72% (male 9,901,319; female 9,687,449)

  65 years and over:  4.07% (male 594,973; female 695,474) (2001 est.)

American Samoa:
  0-14 years:  38.44% (male 13,278; female 12,512)

  15-64 years:  56.57% (male 18,784; female 19,163)

  65 years and over:  4.99% (male 1,779; female 1,568) (2001 est.)

Andorra:
  0-14 years:  15.29% (male 5,425; female 4,917)

  15-64 years:  72.06% (male 25,654; female 23,078)

  65 years and over:  12.65% (male 4,299; female 4,254) (2001 est.)

Angola:
  0-14 years:  43.31% (male 2,266,870; female 2,222,262)

  15-64 years:  53.98% (male 2,847,089; female 2,748,091)

  65 years and over:  2.71% (male 127,798; female 153,921) (2001 est.)

Anguilla:
  0-14 years:  25.55% (male 1,574; female 1,526)

  15-64 years:  67.47% (male 4,200; female 3,985)

  65 years and over:  6.98% (male 376; female 471) (2001 est.)

Antigua and Barbuda:
  0-14 years:  27.97% (male 9,527; female 9,203)

  15-64 years:  67.15% (male 22,450; female 22,519)

  65 years and over:  4.88% (male 1,360; female 1,911) (2001 est.)

Argentina:
  0-14 years:  26.54% (male 5,077,593; female 4,842,811)

  15-64 years:  63.04% (male 11,795,282; female 11,773,855)

  65 years and over:  10.42% (male 1,609,672; female 2,285,603) (2001
  est.)

Armenia:
  0-14 years:  23.23% (male 394,194; female 380,911)

  15-64 years:  67.04% (male 1,094,646; female 1,141,760)

  65 years and over:  9.73% (male 135,477; female 189,112) (2001 est.)

Aruba:
  0-14 years:  21.29% (male 7,709; female 7,193)

  15-64 years:  68.52% (male 23,111; female 24,859)

  65 years and over:  10.19% (male 2,954; female 4,181) (2001 est.)

Australia:
  0-14 years:  20.64% (male 2,045,892; female 1,948,949)

  15-64 years:  66.86% (male 6,538,096; female 6,405,014)

  65 years and over:  12.5% (male 1,059,107; female 1,360,536) (2001
  est.)

Austria:
  0-14 years:  16.57% (male 691,925; female 658,375)

  15-64 years:  68.05% (male 2,802,019; female 2,744,536)

  65 years and over:  15.38% (male 478,498; female 775,482) (2001 est.)

Azerbaijan:
  0-14 years:  28.95% (male 1,146,315; female 1,103,393)

  15-64 years:  63.93% (male 2,415,678; female 2,552,759)

  65 years and over:  7.12% (male 219,549; female 333,398) (2001 est.)

Bahamas, The:
  0-14 years:  29.43% (male 44,179; female 43,486)

  15-64 years:  64.46% (male 94,329; female 97,674)

  65 years and over:  6.11% (male 7,618; female 10,566) (2001 est.)

Bahrain:
  0-14 years:  29.6% (male 96,697; female 94,330)

  15-64 years:  67.43% (male 257,360; female 177,839)

  65 years and over:  2.97% (male 9,721; female 9,414) (2001 est.)

Bangladesh:
  0-14 years:  35.04% (male 23,550,607; female 22,451,006)

  15-64 years:  61.6% (male 41,432,123; female 39,434,633)

  65 years and over:  3.36% (male 2,389,639; female 2,011,852) (2001
  est.)

Barbados:
  0-14 years:  21.68% (male 30,122; female 29,572)

  15-64 years:  69.44% (male 93,283; female 97,915)

  65 years and over:  8.88% (male 9,432; female 15,006) (2001 est.)

Belarus:
  0-14 years:  17.93% (male 947,820; female 908,210)

  15-64 years:  68.21% (male 3,428,920; female 3,631,290)

  65 years and over:  13.86% (male 473,992; female 959,962) (2001 est.)

Belgium:
  0-14 years:  17.48% (male 916,957; female 876,029)

  15-64 years:  65.57% (male 3,390,145; female 3,336,908)

  65 years and over:  16.95% (male 709,212; female 1,029,511) (2001
  est.)

Belize:
  0-14 years:  42.04% (male 54,876; female 52,780)

  15-64 years:  54.43% (male 70,534; female 68,837)

  65 years and over:  3.53% (male 4,403; female 4,632) (2001 est.)

Benin:
  0-14 years:  47.32% (male 1,574,124; female 1,544,741)

  15-64 years:  50.38% (male 1,607,900; female 1,712,360)

  65 years and over:  2.3% (male 64,756; female 86,901) (2001 est.)

Bermuda:
  0-14 years:  19.4% (male 6,091; female 6,230)

  15-64 years:  69.43% (male 21,783; female 22,309)

  65 years and over:  11.17% (male 3,073; female 4,017) (2001 est.)

Bhutan:
  0-14 years:  39.99% (male 424,832; female 394,725)

  15-64 years:  56.05% (male 591,152; female 557,498)

  65 years and over:  3.96% (male 41,125; female 40,080) (2001 est.)

Bolivia:
  0-14 years:  38.46% (male 1,626,698; female 1,565,748)

  15-64 years:  57.07% (male 2,315,098; female 2,421,987)

  65 years and over:  4.47% (male 166,986; female 203,946) (2001 est.)

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  0-14 years:  20.13% (male 405,713; female
  383,850)

  15-64 years:  70.78% (male 1,422,796; female 1,353,410)

  65 years and over:  9.09% (male 150,802; female 205,634) (2001 est.)

Botswana:
  0-14 years:  40.3% (male 321,164; female 318,007)

  15-64 years:  55.56% (male 423,954; female 457,227)

  65 years and over:  4.14% (male 26,691; female 39,076) (2001 est.)

Brazil:
  0-14 years:  28.57% (male 25,390,039; female 24,449,902)

  15-64 years:  65.98% (male 56,603,895; female 58,507,289)

  65 years and over:  5.45% (male 3,857,564; female 5,659,886) (2001
  est.)

British Virgin Islands:
  0-14 years:  22.77% (male 2,399; female
  2,339)

  15-64 years:  72.31% (male 7,741; female 7,309)

  65 years and over:  4.92% (male 555; female 469) (2001 est.)

Brunei:
  0-14 years:  30.77% (male 53,977; female 51,772)

  15-64 years:  66.52% (male 121,601; female 107,007)

  65 years and over:  2.71% (male 4,449; female 4,847) (2001 est.)

Bulgaria:
  0-14 years:  15.11% (male 597,765; female 567,030)

  15-64 years:  68.17% (male 2,588,805; female 2,665,736)

  65 years and over:  16.72% (male 543,665; female 744,494) (2001 est.)

Burkina Faso:
  0-14 years:  47.5% (male 2,937,285; female 2,892,107)

  15-64 years:  49.59% (male 2,903,153; female 3,183,121)

  65 years and over:  2.91% (male 150,688; female 205,935) (2001 est.)

Burma:
  0-14 years:  29.14% (male 6,245,798; female 5,992,074)

  15-64 years:  66.08% (male 13,779,571; female 13,970,707)

  65 years and over:  4.78% (male 895,554; female 1,110,974) (2001
  est.)

Burundi:
  0-14 years:  46.82% (male 1,472,618; female 1,441,548)

  15-64 years:  50.37% (male 1,541,131; female 1,593,743)

  65 years and over:  2.81% (male 71,984; female 102,873) (2001 est.)

Cambodia:
  0-14 years:  41.25% (male 2,626,821; female 2,526,510)

  15-64 years:  55.28% (male 3,253,611; female 3,651,129)

  65 years and over:  3.47% (male 177,577; female 255,853) (2001 est.)

Cameroon:
  0-14 years:  42.37% (male 3,385,898; female 3,310,504)

  15-64 years:  54.28% (male 4,305,354; female 4,271,958)

  65 years and over:  3.35% (male 244,419; female 285,087) (2001 est.)

Canada:
  0-14 years:  18.95% (male 3,067,102; female 2,918,839)

  15-64 years:  68.28% (male 10,846,151; female 10,725,800)

  65 years and over:  12.77% (male 1,715,071; female 2,319,842) (2001
  est.)

Cape Verde:
  0-14 years:  42.79% (male 87,458; female 85,895)

  15-64 years:  50.76% (male 97,812; female 107,834)

  65 years and over:  6.45% (male 10,204; female 15,960) (2001 est.)

Cayman Islands:
  0-14 years:  22.21% (male 3,807; female 4,084)

  15-64 years:  69.74% (male 12,102; female 12,676)

  65 years and over:  8.05% (male 1,318; female 1,540) (2001 est.)

Central African Republic:
  0-14 years:  43.23% (male 778,885; female
  767,414)

  15-64 years:  53% (male 929,717; female 965,947)

  65 years and over:  3.77% (male 59,364; female 75,557) (2001 est.)

Chad:
  0-14 years:  47.73% (male 2,091,724; female 2,064,514)

  15-64 years:  49.46% (male 2,035,099; female 2,271,389)

  65 years and over:  2.81% (male 101,579; female 142,773) (2001 est.)

Chile:
  0-14 years:  27.25% (male 2,135,755; female 2,041,552)

  15-64 years:  65.39% (male 4,993,416; female 5,029,739)

  65 years and over:  7.36% (male 467,477; female 660,528) (2001 est.)

China:
  0-14 years:  25.01% (male 166,754,893; female 151,598,117)

  15-64 years:  67.88% (male 445,222,858; female 418,959,646)

  65 years and over:  7.11% (male 42,547,296; female 48,028,480) (2001
  est.)

Christmas Island:
  0-14 years:  NA%

  15-64 years:  NA%

  65 years and over:  NA%

Cocos (Keeling) Islands:
  0-14 years:  NA%

  15-64 years:  NA%

  65 years and over:  NA%

Colombia:
  0-14 years:  31.88% (male 6,507,282; female 6,354,454)

  15-64 years:  63.37% (male 12,452,182; female 13,117,707)

  65 years and over:  4.75% (male 859,967; female 1,057,796) (2001
  est.)

Comoros:
  0-14 years:  42.81% (male 127,955; female 127,267)

  15-64 years:  54.26% (male 159,560; female 163,949)

  65 years and over:  2.93% (male 8,326; female 9,145) (2001 est.)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  0-14 years:  48.24% (male
  12,988,488; female 12,878,232)

  15-64 years:  49.21% (male 12,931,886; female 13,459,109)

  65 years and over:  2.55% (male 575,113; female 791,890) (2001 est.)

Congo, Republic of the:
  0-14 years:  42.43% (male 618,411; female
  609,633)

  15-64 years:  54.23% (male 765,501; female 804,125)

  65 years and over:  3.34% (male 38,772; female 57,894) (2001 est.)

Cook Islands:
  0-14 years:  NA%

  15-64 years:  NA%

  65 years and over:  NA%

Costa Rica:
  0-14 years:  31.38% (male 605,728; female 578,128)

  15-64 years:  63.37% (male 1,209,084; female 1,181,754)

  65 years and over:  5.25% (male 92,314; female 106,049) (2001 est.)

Cote d'Ivoire:
  0-14 years:  46.21% (male 3,802,397; female 3,773,455)

  15-64 years:  51.57% (male 4,343,518; female 4,110,805)

  65 years and over:  2.22% (male 180,463; female 182,583) (2001 est.)

Croatia:
  0-14 years:  18.16% (male 403,722; female 383,151)

  15-64 years:  66.61% (male 1,452,872; female 1,434,086)

  65 years and over:  15.23% (male 245,727; female 414,584) (2001 est.)

Cuba:
  0-14 years:  20.99% (male 1,205,159; female 1,142,070)

  15-64 years:  69.14% (male 3,876,432; female 3,855,878)

  65 years and over:  9.87% (male 511,589; female 592,895) (2001 est.)

Cyprus:
  0-14 years:  22.95% (male 89,532; female 85,518)

  15-64 years:  66.26% (male 255,368; female 250,140)

  65 years and over:  10.79% (male 35,864; female 46,465) (2001 est.)

Czech Republic:
  0-14 years:  16.09% (male 847,219; female 804,731)

  15-64 years:  69.99% (male 3,592,984; female 3,590,802)

  65 years and over:  13.92% (male 549,538; female 878,938) (2001 est.)

Denmark:
  0-14 years:  18.59% (male 510,826; female 484,385)

  15-64 years:  66.56% (male 1,804,617; female 1,758,019)

  65 years and over:  14.85% (male 331,906; female 463,062) (2001 est.)

Djibouti:
  0-14 years:  42.58% (male 98,314; female 97,859)

  15-64 years:  54.58% (male 132,619; female 118,841)

  65 years and over:  2.84% (male 6,787; female 6,280) (2001 est.)

Dominica:
  0-14 years:  28.72% (male 10,300; female 10,027)

  15-64 years:  63.45% (male 23,056; female 21,855)

  65 years and over:  7.83% (male 2,267; female 3,281) (2001 est.)

Dominican Republic:
  0-14 years:  34.11% (male 1,495,477; female
  1,431,406)

  15-64 years:  60.99% (male 2,664,679; female 2,569,398)

  65 years and over:  4.9% (male 199,240; female 221,277) (2001 est.)

Ecuador:
  0-14 years:  35.8% (male 2,398,801; female 2,320,537)

  15-64 years:  59.81% (male 3,900,193; female 3,984,797)

  65 years and over:  4.39% (male 269,372; female 310,278) (2001 est.)

Egypt:
  0-14 years:  34.59% (male 12,313,585; female 11,739,072)

  15-64 years:  61.6% (male 21,614,284; female 21,217,978)

  65 years and over:  3.81% (male 1,160,967; female 1,490,758) (2001
  est.)

El Salvador:
  0-14 years:  37.68% (male 1,198,623; female 1,151,584)

  15-64 years:  57.27% (male 1,693,865; female 1,878,254)

  65 years and over:  5.05% (male 142,345; female 172,991) (2001 est.)

Equatorial Guinea:
  0-14 years:  42.56% (male 103,909; female 102,946)

  15-64 years:  53.68% (male 124,808; female 136,088)

  65 years and over:  3.76% (male 8,178; female 10,131) (2001 est.)

Eritrea:
  0-14 years:  42.85% (male 922,691; female 918,916)

  15-64 years:  53.87% (male 1,147,927; female 1,167,705)

  65 years and over:  3.28% (male 71,232; female 69,798) (2001 est.)

Estonia:
  0-14 years:  17.08% (male 123,997; female 119,166)

  15-64 years:  68.14% (male 466,823; female 503,032)

  65 years and over:  14.78% (male 68,802; female 141,496) (2001 est.)

Ethiopia:
  0-14 years:  47.18% (male 15,647,675; female 15,442,348)

  15-64 years:  50.03% (male 16,584,765; female 16,378,060)

  65 years and over:  2.79% (male 834,825; female 1,004,201) (2001
  est.)

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas):
  0-14 years:  NA%

  15-64 years:  NA%

  65 years and over:  NA%

Faroe Islands:
  0-14 years:  22.62% (male 5,193; female 5,136)

  15-64 years:  63.64% (male 15,463; female 13,596)

  65 years and over:  13.74% (male 2,802; female 3,471) (2001 est.)

Fiji:
  0-14 years:  32.92% (male 141,724; female 136,216)

  15-64 years:  63.52% (male 268,411; female 267,871)

  65 years and over:  3.56% (male 14,007; female 16,101) (2001 est.)

Finland:
  0-14 years:  18% (male 474,967; female 456,584)

  15-64 years:  66.97% (male 1,750,660; female 1,715,358)

  65 years and over:  15.03% (male 300,569; female 477,645) (2001 est.)

France:
  0-14 years:  18.68% (male 5,698,604; female 5,426,838)

  15-64 years:  65.19% (male 19,424,018; female 19,399,588)

  65 years and over:  16.13% (male 3,900,579; female 5,701,600) (2001
  est.)

French Guiana:
  0-14 years:  30.47% (male 27,669; female 26,428)

  15-64 years:  64.05% (male 61,457; female 52,266)

  65 years and over:  5.48% (male 4,937; female 4,805) (2001 est.)

French Polynesia:
  0-14 years:  29.74% (male 38,473; female 36,925)

  15-64 years:  65.17% (male 86,128; female 79,076)

  65 years and over:  5.09% (male 6,481; female 6,423) (2001 est.)

Gabon:
  0-14 years:  33.29% (male 203,677; female 202,833)

  15-64 years:  60.77% (male 373,828; female 368,282)

  65 years and over:  5.94% (male 35,867; female 36,688) (2001 est.)

Gambia, The:
  0-14 years:  45.22% (male 320,458; female 317,647)

  15-64 years:  52.13% (male 364,900; female 370,717)

  65 years and over:  2.65% (male 19,660; female 17,823) (2001 est.)

Gaza Strip:
  0-14 years:  49.89% (male 301,288; female 286,481)

  15-64 years:  47.32% (male 283,274; female 274,189)

  65 years and over:  2.79% (male 14,121; female 18,766) (2001 est.)

Georgia:
  0-14 years:  19.59% (male 498,575; female 478,663)

  15-64 years:  67.91% (male 1,632,338; female 1,755,910)

  65 years and over:  12.5% (male 241,824; female 381,975) (2001 est.)

Germany:
  0-14 years:  15.57% (male 6,635,328; female 6,289,994)

  15-64 years:  67.82% (male 28,619,237; female 27,691,698)

  65 years and over:  16.61% (male 5,336,664; female 8,456,615) (2001
  est.)

Ghana:
  0-14 years:  41.18% (male 4,123,317; female 4,068,786)

  15-64 years:  55.35% (male 5,455,577; female 5,555,278)

  65 years and over:  3.47% (male 328,809; female 362,247) (2001 est.)

Gibraltar:
  0-14 years:  18.73% (male 2,652; female 2,528)

  15-64 years:  66.33% (male 9,473; female 8,866)

  65 years and over:  14.94% (male 1,733; female 2,397) (2001 est.)

Greece:
  0-14 years:  14.98% (male 820,219; female 771,466)

  15-64 years:  67.3% (male 3,580,535; female 3,569,755)

  65 years and over:  17.72% (male 834,234; female 1,047,626) (2001
  est.)

Greenland:
  0-14 years:  26.69% (male 7,649; female 7,392)

  15-64 years:  67.87% (male 20,868; female 17,376)

  65 years and over:  5.44% (male 1,385; female 1,682) (2001 est.)

Grenada:
  0-14 years:  37.05% (male 16,739; female 16,318)

  15-64 years:  59.03% (male 27,850; female 24,820)

  65 years and over:  3.92% (male 1,592; female 1,908) (2001 est.)

Guadeloupe:
  0-14 years:  24.99% (male 55,030; female 52,722)

  15-64 years:  66.22% (male 141,294; female 144,232)

  65 years and over:  8.79% (male 15,901; female 21,991) (2001 est.)

Guam:
  0-14 years:  35.07% (male 28,978; female 26,270)

  15-64 years:  58.78% (male 48,704; female 43,902)

  65 years and over:  6.15% (male 4,871; female 4,832) (2001 est.)

Guatemala:
  0-14 years:  42.11% (male 2,789,189; female 2,674,747)

  15-64 years:  54.25% (male 3,518,209; female 3,519,851)

  65 years and over:  3.64% (male 220,640; female 251,725) (2001 est.)

Guernsey:
  0-14 years:  16.22% (male 5,285; female 5,151)

  15-64 years:  66.67% (male 21,264; female 21,630)

  65 years and over:  17.11% (male 4,546; female 6,466) (2001 est.)

Guinea:
  0-14 years:  43.12% (male 1,637,000; female 1,645,786)

  15-64 years:  54.19% (male 2,015,199; female 2,110,745)

  65 years and over:  2.69% (male 84,586; female 120,554) (2001 est.)

Guinea-Bissau:
  0-14 years:  42.09% (male 276,312; female 277,536)

  15-64 years:  55.05% (male 344,493; female 379,889)

  65 years and over:  2.86% (male 16,850; female 20,742) (2001 est.)

Guyana:
  0-14 years:  28.19% (male 100,194; female 96,309)

  15-64 years:  66.89% (male 234,976; female 231,360)

  65 years and over:  4.92% (male 15,324; female 19,018) (2001 est.)

Haiti:
  0-14 years:  40.31% (male 1,421,945; female 1,385,580)

  15-64 years:  55.52% (male 1,869,323; female 1,997,246)

  65 years and over:  4.17% (male 140,556; female 149,899) (2001 est.)

Honduras:
  0-14 years:  42.22% (male 1,381,823; female 1,322,684)

  15-64 years:  54.21% (male 1,719,593; female 1,753,003)

  65 years and over:  3.57% (male 108,271; female 120,678) (2001 est.)

Hong Kong:
  0-14 years:  17.73% (male 677,785; female 600,781)

  15-64 years:  71.52% (male 2,554,329; female 2,602,662)

  65 years and over:  10.75% (male 354,199; female 420,749) (2001 est.)

Hungary:
  0-14 years:  16.63% (male 862,468; female 818,052)

  15-64 years:  68.66% (male 3,406,717; female 3,532,008)

  65 years and over:  14.71% (male 546,992; female 939,780) (2001 est.)

Iceland:
  0-14 years:  23.18% (male 33,238; female 31,191)

  15-64 years:  65.01% (male 91,095; female 89,583)

  65 years and over:  11.81% (male 14,681; female 18,118) (2001 est.)

India:
  0-14 years:  33.12% (male 175,630,537; female 165,540,672)

  15-64 years:  62.2% (male 331,790,850; female 308,902,864)

  65 years and over:  4.68% (male 24,439,022; female 23,687,200) (2001
  est.)

Indonesia:
  0-14 years:  30.26% (male 35,144,702; female 33,973,879)

  15-64 years:  65.11% (male 74,273,519; female 74,458,291)

  65 years and over:  4.63% (male 4,641,816; female 5,945,663) (2001
  est.)

Iran:
  0-14 years:  32.97% (male 11,150,053; female 10,654,884)

  15-64 years:  62.38% (male 20,765,001; female 20,488,672)

  65 years and over:  4.65% (male 1,617,045; female 1,453,310) (2001
  est.)

Iraq:
  0-14 years:  41.64% (male 4,934,340; female 4,781,206)

  15-64 years:  55.28% (male 6,528,854; female 6,368,823)

  65 years and over:  3.08% (male 335,953; female 382,809) (2001 est.)

Ireland:
  0-14 years:  21.57% (male 425,328; female 403,204)

  15-64 years:  67.08% (male 1,290,002; female 1,286,312)

  65 years and over:  11.35% (male 188,868; female 247,124) (2001 est.)

Israel:
  0-14 years:  27.36% (male 831,523; female 792,982)

  15-64 years:  62.73% (male 1,869,114; female 1,855,707)

  65 years and over:  9.91% (male 253,105; female 335,662) (2001 est.)

Italy:
  0-14 years:  14.17% (male 4,209,102; female 3,964,765)

  15-64 years:  67.48% (male 19,375,742; female 19,546,332)

  65 years and over:  18.35% (male 4,368,264; female 6,215,620) (2001
  est.)

Jamaica:
  0-14 years:  29.7% (male 405,189; female 386,555)

  15-64 years:  63.52% (male 845,226; female 847,944)

  65 years and over:  6.78% (male 80,667; female 100,055) (2001 est.)

Japan:
  0-14 years:  14.64% (male 9,510,296; female 9,043,074)

  15-64 years:  67.83% (male 43,202,513; female 42,790,187)

  65 years and over:  17.53% (male 9,351,340; female 12,874,252) (2001
  est.)

Jersey:
  0-14 years:  17.77% (male 8,214; female 7,667)

  15-64 years:  67.59% (male 30,065; female 30,331)

  65 years and over:  14.64% (male 5,603; female 7,481) (2001 est.)

Jordan:
  0-14 years:  37.23% (male 980,345; female 938,081)

  15-64 years:  59.44% (male 1,633,579; female 1,429,631)

  65 years and over:  3.33% (male 84,815; female 86,927) (2001 est.)

Kazakhstan:
  0-14 years:  26.73% (male 2,271,866; female 2,200,078)

  15-64 years:  66.03% (male 5,358,535; female 5,688,550)

  65 years and over:  7.24% (male 412,761; female 799,513) (2001 est.)

Kenya:
  0-14 years:  41.95% (male 6,524,776; female 6,381,192)

  15-64 years:  55.26% (male 8,529,842; female 8,471,609)

  65 years and over:  2.79% (male 376,151; female 482,346) (2001 est.)

Kiribati:
  0-14 years:  40.53% (male 19,322; female 18,833)

  15-64 years:  56.27% (male 26,136; female 26,841)

  65 years and over:  3.2% (male 1,291; female 1,726) (2001 est.)

Korea, North:
  0-14 years:  25.52% (male 2,873,390; female 2,733,163)

  15-64 years:  67.63% (male 7,301,531; female 7,556,554)

  65 years and over:  6.85% (male 486,805; female 1,016,785) (2001
  est.)

Korea, South:
  0-14 years:  21.59% (male 5,475,453; female 4,864,918)

  15-64 years:  71.14% (male 17,291,202; female 16,789,380)

  65 years and over:  7.27% (male 1,352,312; female 2,131,105) (2001
  est.)

Kuwait:
  0-14 years:  28.76% (male 299,080; female 288,125)

  15-64 years:  68.82% (male 897,839; female 507,527)

  65 years and over:  2.42% (male 31,843; female 17,547) (2001 est.)

Kyrgyzstan:
  0-14 years:  35.03% (male 841,029; female 823,723)

  15-64 years:  58.83% (male 1,369,842; female 1,426,522)

  65 years and over:  6.14% (male 110,340; female 181,547) (2001 est.)

Laos:
  0-14 years:  42.75% (male 1,212,577; female 1,196,795)

  15-64 years:  53.94% (male 1,494,927; female 1,544,851)

  65 years and over:  3.31% (male 85,632; female 101,185) (2001 est.)

Latvia:
  0-14 years:  16.55% (male 201,746; female 193,036)

  15-64 years:  68.15% (male 776,509; female 848,908)

  65 years and over:  15.3% (male 118,110; female 246,922) (2001 est.)

Lebanon:
  0-14 years:  27.57% (male 509,975; female 490,031)

  15-64 years:  65.72% (male 1,136,995; female 1,247,184)

  65 years and over:  6.71% (male 110,964; female 132,625) (2001 est.)

Lesotho:
  0-14 years:  39.28% (male 430,147; female 424,994)

  15-64 years:  56.03% (male 588,440; female 631,404)

  65 years and over:  4.69% (male 43,033; female 59,044) (2001 est.)

Liberia:
  0-14 years:  43.21% (male 698,178; female 695,599)

  15-64 years:  53.34% (male 840,103; female 880,403)

  65 years and over:  3.45% (male 56,073; female 55,481) (2001 est.)

Libya:
  0-14 years:  35.41% (male 947,645; female 907,854)

  15-64 years:  60.64% (male 1,645,085; female 1,533,066)

  65 years and over:  3.95% (male 101,701; female 105,248) (2001 est.)

Liechtenstein:
  0-14 years:  18.41% (male 2,992; female 2,996)

  15-64 years:  70.6% (male 11,455; female 11,511)

  65 years and over:  10.99% (male 1,439; female 2,135) (2001 est.)

Lithuania:
  0-14 years:  18.75% (male 345,694; female 331,125)

  15-64 years:  67.69% (male 1,181,119; female 1,262,872)

  65 years and over:  13.56% (male 165,732; female 323,993) (2001 est.)

Luxembourg:
  0-14 years:  18.91% (male 43,051; female 40,711)

  15-64 years:  67.03% (male 149,781; female 147,165)

  65 years and over:  14.06% (male 24,921; female 37,343) (2001 est.)

Macau:
  0-14 years:  22.68% (male 53,291; female 49,615)

  15-64 years:  70.08% (male 150,538; female 167,431)

  65 years and over:  7.24% (male 13,287; female 19,571) (2001 est.)

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  0-14 years:  22.92%
  (male 243,715; female 225,349)

  15-64 years:  66.94% (male 688,484; female 681,225)

  65 years and over:  10.14% (male 92,043; female 115,393) (2001 est.)

Madagascar:
  0-14 years:  45.02% (male 3,607,803; female 3,587,532)

  15-64 years:  51.77% (male 4,093,720; female 4,180,430)

  65 years and over:  3.21% (male 239,839; female 273,239) (2001 est.)

Malawi:
  0-14 years:  44.43% (male 2,348,940; female 2,337,290)

  15-64 years:  52.78% (male 2,741,622; female 2,825,966)

  65 years and over:  2.79% (male 119,283; female 175,149) (2001 est.)

Malaysia:
  0-14 years:  34.5% (male 3,943,324; female 3,724,634)

  15-64 years:  61.35% (male 6,828,670; female 6,808,623)

  65 years and over:  4.15% (male 404,042; female 519,747) (2001 est.)

Maldives:
  0-14 years:  45.63% (male 72,920; female 68,895)

  15-64 years:  51.37% (male 81,506; female 78,149)

  65 years and over:  3% (male 4,806; female 4,488) (2001 est.)

Mali:
  0-14 years:  47.2% (male 2,612,215; female 2,583,370)

  15-64 years:  49.73% (male 2,610,142; female 2,864,127)

  65 years and over:  3.07% (male 158,486; female 180,178) (2001 est.)

Malta:
  0-14 years:  19.98% (male 40,791; female 38,062)

  15-64 years:  67.49% (male 133,914; female 132,402)

  65 years and over:  12.53% (male 20,643; female 28,771) (2001 est.)

Man, Isle of:
  0-14 years:  17.51% (male 6,562; female 6,306)

  15-64 years:  65.19% (male 24,061; female 23,845)

  65 years and over:  17.3% (male 5,076; female 7,639) (2001 est.)

Marshall Islands:
  0-14 years:  49.29% (male 17,808; female 17,101)

  15-64 years:  48.61% (male 17,573; female 16,853)

  65 years and over:  2.1% (male 707; female 780) (2001 est.)

Martinique:
  0-14 years:  23.1% (male 49,016; female 47,653)

  15-64 years:  66.77% (male 139,106; female 140,291)

  65 years and over:  10.13% (male 18,893; female 23,495) (2001 est.)

Mauritania:
  0-14 years:  46.14% (male 634,940; female 632,654)

  15-64 years:  51.59% (male 698,433; female 718,883)

  65 years and over:  2.27% (male 25,840; female 36,562) (2001 est.)

Mauritius:
  0-14 years:  25.53% (male 153,691; female 150,094)

  15-64 years:  68.24% (male 404,940; female 407,056)

  65 years and over:  6.23% (male 29,588; female 44,456) (2001 est.)

Mayotte:
  0-14 years:  46.59% (male 38,188; female 37,920)

  15-64 years:  51.73% (male 46,132; female 38,378)

  65 years and over:  1.68% (male 1,361; female 1,387) (2001 est.)

Mexico:
  0-14 years:  33.32% (male 17,312,220; female 16,635,438)

  15-64 years:  62.28% (male 30,888,015; female 32,558,359)

  65 years and over:  4.4% (male 1,997,219; female 2,487,920) (2001
  est.)

Micronesia, Federated States of:
  0-14 years:  NA%

  15-64 years:  NA%

  65 years and over:  NA%

Moldova:
  0-14 years:  22.44% (male 506,303; female 488,311)

  15-64 years:  67.62% (male 1,437,492; female 1,559,090)

  65 years and over:  9.94% (male 163,473; female 276,901) (2001 est.)

Monaco:
  0-14 years:  15.32% (male 2,503; female 2,375)

  15-64 years:  62.23% (male 9,731; female 10,083)

  65 years and over:  22.45% (male 2,921; female 4,229) (2001 est.)

Mongolia:
  0-14 years:  32.99% (male 445,252; female 430,758)

  15-64 years:  63.13% (male 837,771; female 838,384)

  65 years and over:  3.88% (male 44,436; female 58,398) (2001 est.)

Montserrat:
  0-14 years:  23.83% (male 907; female 898)

  15-64 years:  64.66% (male 2,341; female 2,556)

  65 years and over:  11.51% (male 464; female 408) (2001 est.)

Morocco:
  0-14 years:  34.39% (male 5,368,784; female 5,170,891)

  15-64 years:  60.93% (male 9,270,095; female 9,402,561)

  65 years and over:  4.68% (male 646,567; female 786,407) (2001 est.)

Mozambique:
  0-14 years:  42.72% (male 4,124,093; female 4,152,135)

  15-64 years:  54.53% (male 5,222,477; female 5,339,615)

  65 years and over:  2.75% (male 221,678; female 311,059) (2001 est.)

Namibia:
  0-14 years:  42.74% (male 389,028; female 379,229)

  15-64 years:  53.54% (male 480,075; female 482,375)

  65 years and over:  3.72% (male 29,109; female 37,861) (2001 est.)

Nauru:
  0-14 years:  40.33% (male 2,510; female 2,365)

  15-64 years:  57.97% (male 3,475; female 3,533)

  65 years and over:  1.7% (male 103; female 102) (2001 est.)

Nepal:
  0-14 years:  40.35% (male 5,267,234; female 4,933,910)

  15-64 years:  56.16% (male 7,264,575; female 6,934,384)

  65 years and over:  3.49% (male 437,813; female 446,547) (2001 est.)

Netherlands:
  0-14 years:  18.38% (male 1,501,925; female 1,436,017)

  15-64 years:  67.9% (male 5,518,575; female 5,333,442)

  65 years and over:  13.72% (male 899,052; female 1,292,461) (2001
  est.)

Netherlands Antilles:
  0-14 years:  25.21% (male 27,332; female
  26,169)

  15-64 years:  66.99% (male 67,562; female 74,599)

  65 years and over:  7.8% (male 6,874; female 9,690) (2001 est.)

New Caledonia:
  0-14 years:  30.31% (male 31,674; female 30,416)

  15-64 years:  63.95% (male 66,014; female 65,006)

  65 years and over:  5.74% (male 5,548; female 6,205) (2001 est.)

New Zealand:
  0-14 years:  22.36% (male 442,738; female 421,462)

  15-64 years:  66.11% (male 1,281,781; female 1,272,674)

  65 years and over:  11.53% (male 193,895; female 251,579) (2001 est.)

Nicaragua:
  0-14 years:  38.98% (male 976,087; female 941,141)

  15-64 years:  58.08% (male 1,418,555; female 1,438,096)

  65 years and over:  2.94% (male 62,963; female 81,551) (2001 est.)

Niger:
  0-14 years:  47.97% (male 2,528,484; female 2,439,051)

  15-64 years:  49.75% (male 2,518,400; female 2,633,677)

  65 years and over:  2.28% (male 123,589; female 111,955) (2001 est.)

Nigeria:
  0-14 years:  43.71% (male 27,842,225; female 27,514,197)

  15-64 years:  53.47% (male 34,456,738; female 33,259,194)

  65 years and over:  2.82% (male 1,780,862; female 1,782,410) (2001
  est.)

Niue:
  0-14 years:  NA%

  15-64 years:  NA%

  65 years and over:  NA%

Norfolk Island:
  0-14 years:  NA%

  15-64 years:  NA%

  65 years and over:  NA%

Northern Mariana Islands:
  0-14 years:  23.55% (male 8,929; female
  8,639)

  15-64 years:  74.72% (male 26,242; female 29,509)

  65 years and over:  1.73% (male 639; female 654) (2001 est.)

Norway:
  0-14 years:  19.99% (male 462,673; female 437,514)

  15-64 years:  64.91% (male 1,482,346; female 1,440,832)

  65 years and over:  15.1% (male 282,307; female 397,768) (2001 est.)

Oman:
  0-14 years:  41.51% (male 554,727; female 533,627)

  15-64 years:  56.12% (male 894,978; female 576,672)

  65 years and over:  2.37% (male 32,863; female 29,331) (2001 est.)

Pakistan:
  0-14 years:  40.47% (male 30,131,400; female 28,391,891)

  15-64 years:  55.42% (male 40,977,543; female 39,164,663)

  65 years and over:  4.11% (male 2,918,872; female 3,032,270) (2001
  est.)

Palau:
  0-14 years:  26.88% (male 2,641; female 2,491)

  15-64 years:  68.46% (male 7,128; female 5,943)

  65 years and over:  4.66% (male 420; female 469) (2001 est.)

Panama:
  0-14 years:  30.13% (male 436,661; female 420,625)

  15-64 years:  63.86% (male 920,787; female 896,520)

  65 years and over:  6.01% (male 81,682; female 89,372) (2001 est.)

Papua New Guinea:
  0-14 years:  38.7% (male 993,248; female 960,647)

  15-64 years:  57.63% (male 1,507,064; female 1,402,666)

  65 years and over:  3.67% (male 87,779; female 97,651) (2001 est.)

Paraguay:
  0-14 years:  38.9% (male 1,133,306; female 1,097,360)

  15-64 years:  56.39% (male 1,622,743; female 1,610,659)

  65 years and over:  4.71% (male 124,321; female 145,750) (2001 est.)

Peru:
  0-14 years:  34.41% (male 4,803,464; female 4,654,890)

  15-64 years:  60.8% (male 8,408,210; female 8,302,943)

  65 years and over:  4.79% (male 603,309; female 711,048) (2001 est.)

Philippines:
  0-14 years:  36.87% (male 15,547,712; female 14,997,544)

  15-64 years:  59.45% (male 24,374,849; female 24,873,595)

  65 years and over:  3.68% (male 1,355,046; female 1,692,772) (2001
  est.)

Pitcairn Islands:
  0-14 years:  NA%

  15-64 years:  NA%

  65 years and over:  NA%

Poland:
  0-14 years:  18.39% (male 3,640,451; female 3,463,604)

  15-64 years:  69.17% (male 13,288,471; female 13,434,753)

  65 years and over:  12.44% (male 1,836,816; female 2,969,817) (2001
  est.)

Portugal:
  0-14 years:  16.96% (male 877,379; female 830,242)

  15-64 years:  67.42% (male 3,321,473; female 3,465,481)

  65 years and over:  15.62% (male 637,207; female 934,471) (2001 est.)

Puerto Rico:
  0-14 years:  23.73% (male 478,441; female 455,800)

  15-64 years:  65.72% (male 1,242,245; female 1,345,421)

  65 years and over:  10.55% (male 177,083; female 238,326) (2001 est.)

Qatar:
  0-14 years:  25.77% (male 101,155; female 97,086)

  15-64 years:  71.75% (male 391,178; female 160,665)

  65 years and over:  2.48% (male 13,625; female 5,443) (2001 est.)

Reunion:
  0-14 years:  32.07% (male 120,259; female 114,669)

  15-64 years:  62.25% (male 224,347; female 231,698)

  65 years and over:  5.68% (male 16,892; female 24,705) (2001 est.)

Romania:
  0-14 years:  17.95% (male 2,054,323; female 1,959,196)

  15-64 years:  68.51% (male 7,605,751; female 7,715,434)

  65 years and over:  13.54% (male 1,255,880; female 1,773,438) (2001
  est.)

Russia:
  0-14 years:  17.41% (male 12,915,026; female 12,405,341)

  15-64 years:  69.78% (male 49,183,000; female 52,320,962)

  65 years and over:  12.81% (male 5,941,944; female 12,703,924) (2001
  est.)

Rwanda:
  0-14 years:  42.4% (male 1,555,878; female 1,544,942)

  15-64 years:  54.73% (male 1,989,501; female 2,013,012)

  65 years and over:  2.87% (male 83,769; female 125,654) (2001 est.)

Saint Helena:
  0-14 years:  19.08% (male 699; female 687)

  15-64 years:  71.72% (male 2,711; female 2,500)

  65 years and over:  9.2% (male 286; female 383) (2001 est.)

Saint Kitts and Nevis:
  0-14 years:  29.84% (male 5,909; female 5,654)

  15-64 years:  61.37% (male 11,870; female 11,915)

  65 years and over:  8.79% (male 1,406; female 2,002) (2001 est.)

Saint Lucia:
  0-14 years:  32.13% (male 25,951; female 24,874)

  15-64 years:  62.59% (male 48,568; female 50,430)

  65 years and over:  5.28% (male 3,120; female 5,235) (2001 est.)

Saint Pierre and Miquelon:
  0-14 years:  25.85% (male 917; female 874)

  15-64 years:  64.22% (male 2,273; female 2,176)

  65 years and over:  9.93% (male 291; female 397) (2001 est.)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:
  0-14 years:  29.61% (male 17,466;
  female 16,865)

  15-64 years:  64.04% (male 38,074; female 36,179)

  65 years and over:  6.35% (male 3,162; female 4,196) (2001 est.)

Samoa:
  0-14 years:  31.88% (male 29,009; female 28,069)

  15-64 years:  62.44% (male 70,491; female 41,304)

  65 years and over:  5.68% (male 4,739; female 5,446) (2001 est.)

San Marino:
  0-14 years:  15.88% (male 2,241; female 2,100)

  15-64 years:  67.94% (male 9,048; female 9,525)

  65 years and over:  16.18% (male 1,902; female 2,520) (2001 est.)

Sao Tome and Principe:
  0-14 years:  47.7% (male 39,857; female
  38,859)

  15-64 years:  48.28% (male 38,430; female 41,246)

  65 years and over:  4.02% (male 3,034; female 3,608) (2001 est.)

Saudi Arabia:
  0-14 years:  42.52% (male 4,932,465; female 4,743,908)

  15-64 years:  54.8% (male 7,290,840; female 5,179,393)

  65 years and over:  2.68% (male 334,981; female 275,505) (2001 est.)

Senegal:
  0-14 years:  44.07% (male 2,279,996; female 2,252,255)

  15-64 years:  52.88% (male 2,603,829; female 2,834,328)

  65 years and over:  3.05% (male 155,877; female 158,644) (2001 est.)

Seychelles:
  0-14 years:  28.27% (male 11,367; female 11,167)

  15-64 years:  65.47% (male 25,453; female 26,737)

  65 years and over:  6.26% (male 1,673; female 3,318) (2001 est.)

Sierra Leone:
  0-14 years:  44.73% (male 1,190,207; female 1,237,326)

  15-64 years:  52.12% (male 1,351,455; female 1,477,155)

  65 years and over:  3.15% (male 84,364; female 86,111) (2001 est.)

Singapore:
  0-14 years:  17.89% (male 397,124; female 372,058)

  15-64 years:  75.16% (male 1,575,381; female 1,656,838)

  65 years and over:  6.95% (male 130,815; female 168,203) (2001 est.)

Slovakia:
  0-14 years:  18.86% (male 522,563; female 498,832)

  15-64 years:  69.6% (male 1,872,496; female 1,896,249)

  65 years and over:  11.54% (male 236,996; female 387,801) (2001 est.)

Slovenia:
  0-14 years:  16.09% (male 159,428; female 151,134)

  15-64 years:  69.61% (male 681,333; female 662,170)

  65 years and over:  14.3% (male 101,354; female 174,713) (2001 est.)

Solomon Islands:
  0-14 years:  43.79% (male 107,229; female 103,162)

  15-64 years:  53.15% (male 129,315; female 126,021)

  65 years and over:  3.06% (male 7,190; female 7,525) (2001 est.)

Somalia:
  0-14 years:  44.54% (male 1,670,320; female 1,665,329)

  15-64 years:  52.69% (male 1,993,750; female 1,952,437)

  65 years and over:  2.77% (male 91,511; female 115,426) (2001 est.)

South Africa:
  0-14 years:  32.01% (male 7,023,639; female 6,928,559)

  15-64 years:  63.11% (male 13,264,654; female 14,244,484)

  65 years and over:  4.88% (male 798,914; female 1,325,847) (2001
  est.)

Spain:
  0-14 years:  14.62% (male 3,015,851; female 2,835,763)

  15-64 years:  68.2% (male 13,701,065; female 13,605,314)

  65 years and over:  17.18% (male 2,881,334; female 3,998,668) (2001
  est.)

Sri Lanka:
  0-14 years:  25.99% (male 2,578,618; female 2,464,928)

  15-64 years:  67.39% (male 6,369,881; female 6,708,852)

  65 years and over:  6.62% (male 615,253; female 671,103) (2001 est.)

Sudan:
  0-14 years:  44.62% (male 8,227,011; female 7,870,783)

  15-64 years:  53.29% (male 9,619,218; female 9,608,469)

  65 years and over:  2.09% (male 425,898; female 328,994) (2001 est.)

Suriname:
  0-14 years:  31.62% (male 70,314; female 66,924)

  15-64 years:  62.71% (male 138,969; female 133,193)

  65 years and over:  5.67% (male 11,194; female 13,404) (2001 est.)

Svalbard:
  0-14 years:  NA%

  15-64 years:  NA%

  65 years and over:  NA%

Swaziland:
  0-14 years:  45.53% (male 250,327; female 252,479)

  15-64 years:  51.88% (male 276,186; female 296,728)

  65 years and over:  2.59% (male 11,687; female 16,936) (2001 est.)

Sweden:
  0-14 years:  18.19% (male 828,308; female 786,353)

  15-64 years:  64.53% (male 2,911,949; female 2,814,730)

  65 years and over:  17.28% (male 649,296; female 884,417) (2001 est.)

Switzerland:
  0-14 years:  16.97% (male 634,030; female 601,929)

  15-64 years:  67.73% (male 2,505,450; female 2,427,408)

  65 years and over:  15.3% (male 453,366; female 661,091) (2001 est.)

Syria:
  0-14 years:  39.92% (male 3,440,060; female 3,238,576)

  15-64 years:  56.87% (male 4,868,816; female 4,644,870)

  65 years and over:  3.21% (male 261,036; female 275,450) (2001 est.)

Tajikistan:
  0-14 years:  41.18% (male 1,367,194; female 1,341,967)

  15-64 years:  54.22% (male 1,773,605; female 1,793,345)

  65 years and over:  4.6% (male 131,009; female 171,561) (2001 est.)

Tanzania:
  0-14 years:  44.76% (male 8,152,438; female 8,063,520)

  15-64 years:  52.35% (male 9,387,737; female 9,581,518)

  65 years and over:  2.89% (male 473,498; female 573,363) (2001 est.)

Thailand:
  0-14 years:  23.43% (male 7,380,273; female 7,099,506)

  15-64 years:  69.95% (male 21,304,051; female 21,921,383)

  65 years and over:  6.62% (male 1,796,325; female 2,296,213) (2001
  est.)

Togo:
  0-14 years:  45.63% (male 1,179,650; female 1,171,748)

  15-64 years:  51.92% (male 1,302,197; female 1,373,247)

  65 years and over:  2.45% (male 54,651; female 71,595) (2001 est.)

Tokelau:
  0-14 years:  NA%

  15-64 years:  NA%

  65 years and over:  NA%

Tonga:
  0-14 years:  40.93% (male 21,739; female 20,916)

  15-64 years:  54.99% (male 28,231; female 29,082)

  65 years and over:  4.08% (male 1,912; female 2,347) (2001 est.)

Trinidad and Tobago:
  0-14 years:  24.1% (male 143,730; female
  138,160)

  15-64 years:  69.2% (male 415,898; female 393,551)

  65 years and over:  6.7% (male 34,785; female 43,558) (2001 est.)

Tunisia:
  0-14 years:  28.74% (male 1,440,636; female 1,348,133)

  15-64 years:  65.12% (male 3,157,988; female 3,161,596)

  65 years and over:  6.14% (male 296,930; female 299,819) (2001 est.)

Turkey:
  0-14 years:  28.42% (male 9,620,291; female 9,276,347)

  15-64 years:  65.45% (male 22,116,599; female 21,401,165)

  65 years and over:  6.13% (male 1,878,571; female 2,200,997) (2001
  est.)

Turkmenistan:
  0-14 years:  37.88% (male 891,758; female 852,104)

  15-64 years:  58.09% (male 1,313,303; female 1,360,690)

  65 years and over:  4.03% (male 70,800; female 114,589) (2001 est.)

Turks and Caicos Islands:
  0-14 years:  32.58% (male 2,996; female
  2,908)

  15-64 years:  63.51% (male 6,050; female 5,459)

  65 years and over:  3.91% (male 316; female 393) (2001 est.)

Tuvalu:
  0-14 years:  33.28% (male 1,862; female 1,796)

  15-64 years:  61.6% (male 3,241; female 3,529)

  65 years and over:  5.12% (male 236; female 327) (2001 est.)

Uganda:
  0-14 years:  51.08% (male 6,150,038; female 6,100,880)

  15-64 years:  46.78% (male 5,613,499; female 5,607,526)

  65 years and over:  2.14% (male 244,216; female 269,553) (2001 est.)

Ukraine:
  0-14 years:  17.3% (male 4,310,158; female 4,127,677)

  15-64 years:  68.57% (male 15,965,079; female 17,468,035)

  65 years and over:  14.13% (male 2,275,004; female 4,614,521) (2001
  est.)

United Arab Emirates:
  0-14 years:  28.86% (male 354,298; female
  340,498)

  15-64 years:  68.74% (male 1,047,839; female 607,020)

  65 years and over:  2.4% (male 40,626; female 17,179) (2001 est.)

United Kingdom:
  0-14 years:  18.89% (male 5,778,415; female
  5,486,114)

  15-64 years:  65.41% (male 19,712,932; female 19,304,771)

  65 years and over:  15.7% (male 3,895,921; female 5,469,637) (2001
  est.)

United States:
  0-14 years:  21.12% (male 30,034,674; female
  28,681,253)

  15-64 years:  66.27% (male 91,371,753; female 92,907,199)

  65 years and over:  12.61% (male 14,608,948; female 20,455,054)
  (2001 est.)

Uruguay:
  0-14 years:  24.39% (male 419,932; female 399,605)

  15-64 years:  62.61% (male 1,038,785; female 1,064,891)

  65 years and over:  13% (male 180,130; female 256,762) (2001 est.)

Uzbekistan:
  0-14 years:  36.32% (male 4,646,341; female 4,489,265)

  15-64 years:  59.06% (male 7,351,908; female 7,504,626)

  65 years and over:  4.62% (male 466,029; female 696,895) (2001 est.)

Vanuatu:
  0-14 years:  36.35% (male 35,822; female 34,299)

  15-64 years:  60.43% (male 59,764; female 56,808)

  65 years and over:  3.22% (male 3,348; female 2,869) (2001 est.)

Venezuela:
  0-14 years:  32.11% (male 3,962,517; female 3,716,880)

  15-64 years:  63.17% (male 7,581,589; female 7,526,467)

  65 years and over:  4.72% (male 515,687; female 613,670) (2001 est.)

Vietnam:
  0-14 years:  32.13% (male 13,266,585; female 12,415,384)

  15-64 years:  62.44% (male 24,357,343; female 25,556,187)

  65 years and over:  5.43% (male 1,722,094; female 2,621,421) (2001
  est.)

Virgin Islands:
  0-14 years:  27.27% (male 17,121; female 16,204)

  15-64 years:  63.92% (male 35,391; female 42,727)

  65 years and over:  8.81% (male 4,638; female 6,130) (2001 est.)

Wallis and Futuna:
  0-14 years:  NA%

  15-64 years:  NA%

  65 years and over:  NA%

West Bank:
  0-14 years:  44.61% (male 478,232; female 454,439)

  15-64 years:  51.8% (male 552,661; female 530,230)

  65 years and over:  3.59% (male 32,629; female 42,522) (2001 est.)

Western Sahara:
  0-14 years:  NA%

  15-64 years:  NA%

  65 years and over:  NA%

World:
  0-14 years:  29.6% (male 933,647,850; female 886,681,514)

  15-64 years:  63.4% (male 1,975,418,386; female 1,931,021,694)

  65 years and over:  7% (male 188,760,223; female 241,449,691) (2001
  est.)

Yemen:
  0-14 years:  47.21% (male 4,340,436; female 4,195,076)

  15-64 years:  49.79% (male 4,598,301; female 4,402,402)

  65 years and over:  3% (male 274,202; female 267,618) (2001 est.)

Yugoslavia:
  0-14 years:  19.8% (male 1,095,905; female 1,024,123)

  15-64 years:  65.3% (male 3,415,728; female 3,553,343)

  65 years and over:  14.9% (male 681,559; female 906,632) (2001 est.)

Zambia:
  0-14 years:  47.36% (male 2,324,128; female 2,303,349)

  15-64 years:  50.14% (male 2,433,250; female 2,465,747)

  65 years and over:  2.5% (male 105,694; female 138,031) (2001 est.)

Zimbabwe:
  0-14 years:  38.68% (male 2,223,332; female 2,172,479)

  15-64 years:  57.69% (male 3,319,982; female 3,236,286)

  65 years and over:  3.63% (male 208,785; female 204,502) (2001 est.)

Taiwan:
  0-14 years:  21.22% (male 2,470,270; female 2,276,108)

  15-64 years:  69.97% (male 7,944,451; female 7,707,250)

  65 years and over:  8.81% (male 1,034,230; female 938,152) (2001
  est.)

======================================================================

@Agriculture - products



Afghanistan:
  opium poppies, wheat, fruits, nuts; wool, mutton,
  karakul pelts

Albania:
  wheat, corn, potatoes, vegetables, fruits, sugar beets,
  grapes; meat, dairy products

Algeria:
  wheat, barley, oats, grapes, olives, citrus, fruits; sheep,
  cattle

American Samoa:
  bananas, coconuts, vegetables, taro, breadfruit,
  yams, copra, pineapples, papayas; dairy products, livestock

Andorra:
  small quantities of tobacco, rye, wheat, barley, oats,
  vegetables; sheep

Angola:
  bananas, sugarcane, coffee, sisal, corn, cotton, manioc
  (tapioca), tobacco, vegetables, plantains; livestock; forest
  products; fish

Anguilla:
  small quantities of tobacco, vegetables; cattle raising

Antigua and Barbuda:
  cotton, fruits, vegetables, bananas, coconuts,
  cucumbers, mangoes, sugarcane; livestock

Argentina:
  sunflower seeds, lemons, soybeans, grapes, corn, tobacco,
  peanuts, tea, wheat; livestock

Armenia:
  fruit (especially grapes), vegetables; livestock

Aruba:
  aloes; livestock; fish

Australia:
  wheat, barley, sugarcane, fruits; cattle, sheep, poultry

Austria:
  grains, potatoes, sugar beets, wine, fruit; dairy products,
  cattle, pigs, poultry; lumber

Azerbaijan:
  cotton, grain, rice, grapes, fruit, vegetables, tea,
  tobacco; cattle, pigs, sheep, goats

Bahamas, The:
  citrus, vegetables; poultry

Bahrain:
  fruit, vegetables; poultry, dairy products; shrimp, fish

Bangladesh:
  rice, jute, tea, wheat, sugarcane, potatoes, tobacco,
  pulses, oilseeds, spices, fruit; beef, milk, poultry

Barbados:
  sugarcane, vegetables, cotton

Belarus:
  grain, potatoes, vegetables, sugar beets, flax; beef, milk

Belgium:
  sugar beets, fresh vegetables, fruits, grain, tobacco;
  beef, veal, pork, milk

Belize:
  bananas, coca, citrus, sugarcane; lumber; fish, cultured
  shrimp

Benin:
  corn, sorghum, cassava (tapioca), yams, beans, rice, cotton,
  palm oil, peanuts; poultry, livestock

Bermuda:
  bananas, vegetables, citrus, flowers; dairy products

Bhutan:
  rice, corn, root crops, citrus, foodgrains; dairy products,
  eggs

Bolivia:
  soybeans, coffee, coca, cotton, corn, sugarcane, rice,
  potatoes; timber

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  wheat, corn, fruits, vegetables; livestock

Botswana:
  sorghum, corn, millet, pulses, groundnuts (peanuts),
  beans, cowpeas, sunflower seed; livestock

Brazil:
  coffee, soybeans, wheat, rice, corn, sugarcane, cocoa,
  citrus; beef

British Virgin Islands:
  fruits, vegetables; livestock, poultry; fish

Brunei:
  rice, vegetables, fruits, chickens, water buffalo

Bulgaria:
  vegetables, fruits, tobacco, livestock, wine, wheat,
  barley, sunflowers, sugar beets

Burkina Faso:
  peanuts, shea nuts, sesame, cotton, sorghum, millet,
  corn, rice; livestock

Burma:
  paddy rice, corn, oilseed, sugarcane, pulses; hardwood

Burundi:
  coffee, cotton, tea, corn, sorghum, sweet potatoes,
  bananas, manioc (tapioca); beef, milk, hides

Cambodia:
  rice, rubber, corn, vegetables

Cameroon:
  coffee, cocoa, cotton, rubber, bananas, oilseed, grains,
  root starches; livestock; timber

Canada:
  wheat, barley, oilseed, tobacco, fruits, vegetables; dairy
  products; forest products; fish

Cape Verde:
  bananas, corn, beans, sweet potatoes, sugarcane, coffee,
  peanuts; fish

Cayman Islands:
  vegetables, fruit; livestock, turtle farming

Central African Republic:
  cotton, coffee, tobacco, manioc (tapioca),
  yams, millet, corn, bananas; timber

Chad:
  cotton, sorghum, millet, peanuts, rice, potatoes, manioc
  (tapioca); cattle, sheep, goats, camels

Chile:
  wheat, corn, grapes, beans, sugar beets, potatoes, fruit;
  beef, poultry, wool; fish; timber

China:
  rice, wheat, potatoes, sorghum, peanuts, tea, millet, barley,
  cotton, oilseed; pork; fish

Christmas Island:
  NA

Cocos (Keeling) Islands:
  vegetables, bananas, pawpaws, coconuts

Colombia:
  coffee, cut flowers, bananas, rice, tobacco, corn,
  sugarcane, cocoa beans, oilseed, vegetables; forest products; shrimp

Comoros:
  vanilla, cloves, perfume essences, copra, coconuts,
  bananas, cassava (tapioca)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  coffee, sugar, palm oil, rubber,
  tea, quinine, cassava (tapioca), palm oil, bananas, root crops,
  corn, fruits; wood products

Congo, Republic of the:
  cassava (tapioca), sugar, rice, corn,
  peanuts, vegetables, coffee, cocoa; forest products

Cook Islands:
  copra, citrus, pineapples, tomatoes, beans, pawpaws,
  bananas, yams, taro, coffee; pigs, poultry

Costa Rica:
  coffee, pineapples, bananas, sugar, corn, rice, beans,
  potatoes; beef; timber

Cote d'Ivoire:
  coffee, cocoa beans, bananas, palm kernels, corn,
  rice, manioc (tapioca), sweet potatoes, sugar, cotton, rubber; timber

Croatia:
  wheat, corn, sugar beets, sunflower seed, alfalfa, clover,
  olives, citrus, grapes, soy beans, potatoes; livestock, dairy
  products

Cuba:
  sugar, tobacco, citrus, coffee, rice, potatoes, beans;
  livestock

Cyprus:
  potatoes, citrus, vegetables, barley, grapes, olives,
  vegetables

Czech Republic:
  wheat, potatoes, sugar beets, hops, fruit; pigs,
  poultry

Denmark:
  grain, potatoes, rape, sugar beets; pork and beef, dairy
  products; fish

Djibouti:
  fruits, vegetables; goats, sheep, camels

Dominica:
  bananas, citrus, mangoes, root crops, coconuts, cocoa;
  forest and fishery potential not exploited

Dominican Republic:
  sugarcane, coffee, cotton, cocoa, tobacco, rice,
  beans, potatoes, corn, bananas; cattle, pigs, dairy products, beef,
  eggs

Ecuador:
  bananas, coffee, cocoa, rice, potatoes, manioc (tapioca),
  plantains, sugarcane; cattle, sheep, pigs, beef, pork, dairy
  products; balsa wood; fish, shrimp

Egypt:
  cotton, rice, corn, wheat, beans, fruits, vegetables; cattle,
  water buffalo, sheep, goats

El Salvador:
  coffee, sugar, corn, rice, beans, oilseed, cotton,
  sorghum; shrimp; beef, dairy products

Equatorial Guinea:
  coffee, cocoa, rice, yams, cassava (tapioca),
  bananas, palm oil nuts; livestock; timber

Eritrea:
  sorghum, lentils, vegetables, corn, cotton, tobacco,
  coffee, sisal; livestock, goats; fish

Estonia:
  potatoes, fruits, vegetables; livestock and dairy products;
  fish

Ethiopia:
  cereals, pulses, coffee, oilseed, sugarcane, potatoes,
  qat; hides, cattle, sheep, goats

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas):
  fodder and vegetable crops;
  sheep, dairy products

Faroe Islands:
  milk, potatoes, vegetables; sheep; salmon, other fish

Fiji:
  sugarcane, coconuts, cassava (tapioca), rice, sweet potatoes,
  bananas; cattle, pigs, horses, goats; fish

Finland:
  cereals, sugar beets, potatoes; dairy cattle; fish

France:
  wheat, cereals, sugar beets, potatoes, wine grapes; beef,
  dairy products; fish

French Guiana:
  rice, manioc (tapioca), sugar, cocoa, vegetables,
  bananas; cattle, pigs, poultry

French Polynesia:
  coconuts, vanilla, vegetables, fruits; poultry,
  beef, dairy products

Gabon:
  cocoa, coffee, sugar, palm oil, rubber; cattle; okoume (a
  tropical softwood); fish

Gambia, The:
  peanuts, millet, sorghum, rice, corn, sesame, cassava
  (tapioca), palm kernels; cattle, sheep, goats; forest and fishery
  resources not fully exploited

Gaza Strip:
  olives, citrus, vegetables; beef, dairy products

Georgia:
  citrus, grapes, tea, vegetables, potatoes; livestock

Germany:
  potatoes, wheat, barley, sugar beets, fruit, cabbages;
  cattle, pigs, poultry

Ghana:
  cocoa, rice, coffee, cassava (tapioca), peanuts, corn, shea
  nuts, bananas; timber

Gibraltar:
  none

Greece:
  wheat, corn, barley, sugar beets, olives, tomatoes, wine,
  tobacco, potatoes; beef, dairy products

Greenland:
  forage crops, garden and greenhouse vegetables; sheep,
  reindeer; fish

Grenada:
  bananas, cocoa, nutmeg, mace, citrus, avocados, root crops,
  sugarcane, corn, vegetables

Guadeloupe:
  bananas, sugarcane, tropical fruits and vegetables;
  cattle, pigs, goats

Guam:
  fruits, copra, vegetables; eggs, pork, poultry, beef

Guatemala:
  sugarcane, corn, bananas, coffee, beans, cardamom;
  cattle, sheep, pigs, chickens

Guernsey:
  tomatoes, greenhouse flowers, sweet peppers, eggplant,
  fruit; Guernsey cattle

Guinea:
  rice, coffee, pineapples, palm kernels, cassava (tapioca),
  bananas, sweet potatoes; cattle, sheep, goats; timber

Guinea-Bissau:
  rice, corn, beans, cassava (tapioca), cashew nuts,
  peanuts, palm kernels, cotton; timber; fish

Guyana:
  sugar, rice, wheat, vegetable oils; beef, pork, poultry,
  dairy products; forest and fishery potential not exploited

Haiti:
  coffee, mangoes, sugarcane, rice, corn, sorghum; wood

Honduras:
  bananas, coffee, citrus; beef; timber; shrimp

Hong Kong:
  fresh vegetables; poultry

Hungary:
  wheat, corn, sunflower seed, potatoes, sugar beets; pigs,
  cattle, poultry, dairy products

Iceland:
  potatoes, turnips; cattle, sheep; fish

India:
  rice, wheat, oilseed, cotton, jute, tea, sugarcane, potatoes;
  cattle, water buffalo, sheep, goats, poultry; fish

Indonesia:
  rice, cassava (tapioca), peanuts, rubber, cocoa, coffee,
  palm oil, copra; poultry, beef, pork, eggs

Iran:
  wheat, rice, other grains, sugar beets, fruits, nuts, cotton;
  dairy products, wool; caviar

Iraq:
  wheat, barley, rice, vegetables, dates, cotton; cattle, sheep

Ireland:
  turnips, barley, potatoes, sugar beets, wheat; beef, dairy
  products

Israel:
  citrus, vegetables, cotton; beef, poultry, dairy products

Italy:
  fruits, vegetables, grapes, potatoes, sugar beets, soybeans,
  grain, olives; beef, dairy products; fish

Jamaica:
  sugarcane, bananas, coffee, citrus, potatoes, vegetables;
  poultry, goats, milk

Japan:
  rice, sugar beets, vegetables, fruit; pork, poultry, dairy
  products, eggs; fish

Jersey:
  potatoes, cauliflower, tomatoes; beef, dairy products

Jordan:
  wheat, barley, citrus, tomatoes, melons, olives; sheep,
  goats, poultry

Kazakhstan:
  grain (mostly spring wheat), cotton; wool, livestock

Kenya:
  coffee, tea, corn, wheat, sugarcane, fruit, vegetables; dairy
  products, beef, pork, poultry, eggs

Kiribati:
  copra, taro, breadfruit, sweet potatoes, vegetables; fish

Korea, North:
  rice, corn, potatoes, soybeans, pulses; cattle, pigs,
  pork, eggs

Korea, South:
  rice, root crops, barley, vegetables, fruit; cattle,
  pigs, chickens, milk, eggs; fish

Kuwait:
  practically no crops; fish

Kyrgyzstan:
  tobacco, cotton, potatoes, vegetables, grapes, fruits
  and berries; sheep, goats, cattle, wool

Laos:
  sweet potatoes, vegetables, corn, coffee, sugarcane, tobacco,
  cotton; tea, peanuts, rice; water buffalo, pigs, cattle, poultry

Latvia:
  grain, sugar beets, potatoes, vegetables; beef, milk, eggs;
  fish

Lebanon:
  citrus, grapes, tomatoes, apples, vegetables, potatoes,
  olives, tobacco; sheep, goats

Lesotho:
  corn, wheat, pulses, sorghum, barley; livestock

Liberia:
  rubber, coffee, cocoa, rice, cassava (tapioca), palm oil,
  sugarcane, bananas; sheep, goats; timber

Libya:
  wheat, barley, olives, dates, citrus, vegetables, peanuts,
  soybeans; cattle

Liechtenstein:
  wheat, barley, corn, potatoes; livestock, dairy
  products

Lithuania:
  grain, potatoes, sugar beets, flax, vegetables; beef,
  milk, eggs; fish

Luxembourg:
  barley, oats, potatoes, wheat, fruits, wine grapes;
  livestock products

Macau:
  rice, vegetables

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  rice, tobacco, wheat,
  corn, millet, cotton, sesame, mulberry leaves, citrus, vegetables;
  beef, pork, poultry, mutton

Madagascar:
  coffee, vanilla, sugarcane, cloves, cocoa, rice, cassava
  (tapioca), beans, bananas, peanuts; livestock products

Malawi:
  tobacco, sugarcane, cotton, tea, corn, potatoes, cassava
  (tapioca), sorghum, pulses; cattle, goats

Malaysia:
  Peninsular Malaysia - rubber, palm oil, cocoa, rice; Sabah
  - subsistence crops, rubber, timber, coconuts, rice; Sarawak -
  rubber, pepper; timber

Maldives:
  coconuts, corn, sweet potatoes; fish

Mali:
  cotton, millet, rice, corn, vegetables, peanuts; cattle,
  sheep, goats

Malta:
  potatoes, cauliflower, grapes, wheat, barley, tomatoes,
  citrus, cut flowers, green peppers; pork, milk, poultry, eggs

Man, Isle of:
  cereals, vegetables; cattle, sheep, pigs, poultry

Marshall Islands:
  coconuts, tomatoes, melons, cacao, taro,
  breadfruit, fruits; pigs, chickens

Martinique:
  pineapples, avocados, bananas, flowers, vegetables,
  sugarcane

Mauritania:
  dates, millet, sorghum, rice, corn, dates; cattle, sheep

Mauritius:
  sugarcane, tea, corn, potatoes, bananas, pulses; cattle,
  goats; fish

Mayotte:
  vanilla, ylang-ylang (perfume essence), coffee, copra

Mexico:
  corn, wheat, soybeans, rice, beans, cotton, coffee, fruit,
  tomatoes; beef, poultry, dairy products; wood products

Micronesia, Federated States of:
  black pepper, tropical fruits and
  vegetables, coconuts, cassava (tapioca), sweet potatoes; pigs,
  chickens

Moldova:
  vegetables, fruits, wine, grain, sugar beets, sunflower
  seed, tobacco; beef, milk

Monaco:
  none

Mongolia:
  wheat, barley, potatoes, forage crops; sheep, goats,
  cattle, camels, horses

Montserrat:
  cabbages, carrots, cucumbers, tomatoes, onions, peppers;
  livestock products

Morocco:
  barley, wheat, citrus, wine, vegetables, olives; livestock

Mozambique:
  cotton, cashew nuts, sugarcane, tea, cassava (tapioca),
  corn, rice, coconuts, sisal, tropical fruits; beef, poultry

Namibia:
  millet, sorghum, peanuts; livestock; fish

Nauru:
  coconuts

Nepal:
  rice, corn, wheat, sugarcane, root crops; milk, water buffalo
  meat

Netherlands:
  grains, potatoes, sugar beets, fruits, vegetables;
  livestock

Netherlands Antilles:
  aloes, sorghum, peanuts, vegetables, tropical
  fruit

New Caledonia:
  vegetables; beef, deer, other livestock products

New Zealand:
  wheat, barley, potatoes, pulses, fruits, vegetables;
  wool, beef, dairy products; fish

Nicaragua:
  coffee, bananas, sugarcane, cotton, rice, corn, tobacco,
  sesame, soya, beans; beef, veal, pork, poultry, dairy products

Niger:
  cowpeas, cotton, peanuts, millet, sorghum, cassava (tapioca),
  rice; cattle, sheep, goats, camels, donkeys, horses, poultry

Nigeria:
  cocoa, peanuts, palm oil, corn, rice, sorghum, millet,
  cassava (tapioca), yams, rubber; cattle, sheep, goats, pigs; timber;
  fish

Niue:
  coconuts, passion fruit, honey, limes, taro, yams, cassava
  (tapioca), sweet potatoes; pigs, poultry, beef cattle

Norfolk Island:
  Norfolk Island pine seed, Kentia palm seed, cereals,
  vegetables, fruit; cattle, poultry

Northern Mariana Islands:
  coconuts, fruits, vegetables; cattle

Norway:
  barley, other grains, potatoes; beef, milk; fish

Oman:
  dates, limes, bananas, alfalfa, vegetables; camels, cattle;
  fish

Pakistan:
  cotton, wheat, rice, sugarcane, fruits, vegetables; milk,
  beef, mutton, eggs

Palau:
  coconuts, copra, cassava (tapioca), sweet potatoes

Panama:
  bananas, rice, corn, coffee, sugarcane, vegetables;
  livestock; shrimp

Papua New Guinea:
  coffee, cocoa, coconuts, palm kernels, tea,
  rubber, sweet potatoes, fruit, vegetables; poultry, pork

Paraguay:
  cotton, sugarcane, soybeans, corn, wheat, tobacco, cassava
  (yucca), fruits, vegetables; beef, pork, eggs, milk; timber

Peru:
  coffee, cotton, sugarcane, rice, wheat, potatoes, plantains,
  coca; poultry, beef, dairy products, wool; fish

Philippines:
  rice, coconuts, corn, sugarcane, bananas, pineapples,
  mangoes; pork, eggs, beef; fish

Pitcairn Islands:
  wide variety of fruits and vegetables, goats,
  chickens

Poland:
  potatoes, fruits, vegetables, wheat; poultry, eggs, pork

Portugal:
  grain, potatoes, olives, grapes; sheep, cattle, goats,
  poultry, beef, dairy products

Puerto Rico:
  sugarcane, coffee, pineapples, plantains, bananas;
  livestock products, chickens

Qatar:
  fruits, vegetables; poultry, dairy products, beef; fish

Reunion:
  sugarcane, vanilla, tobacco, tropical fruits, vegetables,
  corn

Romania:
  wheat, corn, sugar beets, sunflower seed, potatoes, grapes;
  eggs, sheep

Russia:
  grain, sugar beets, sunflower seed, vegetables, fruits;
  beef, milk

Rwanda:
  coffee, tea, pyrethrum (insecticide made from
  chrysanthemums), bananas, beans, sorghum, potatoes; livestock

Saint Helena:
  corn, potatoes, vegetables; timber; fish, crawfish (on
  Tristan da Cunha)

Saint Kitts and Nevis:
  sugarcane, rice, yams, vegetables, bananas;
  fish

Saint Lucia:
  bananas, coconuts, vegetables, citrus, root crops, cocoa

Saint Pierre and Miquelon:
  vegetables; poultry, cattle, sheep, pigs;
  fish

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:
  bananas, coconuts, sweet potatoes,
  spices; small numbers of cattle, sheep, pigs, goats; fish

Samoa:
  coconuts, bananas, taro, yams

San Marino:
  wheat, grapes, corn, olives; cattle, pigs, horses, beef,
  cheese, hides

Sao Tome and Principe:
  cocoa, coconuts, palm kernels, copra,
  cinnamon, pepper, coffee, bananas, papayas, beans; poultry; fish

Saudi Arabia:
  wheat, barley, tomatoes, melons, dates, citrus;
  mutton, chickens, eggs, milk

Senegal:
  peanuts, millet, corn, sorghum, rice, cotton, tomatoes,
  green vegetables; cattle, poultry, pigs; fish

Seychelles:
  coconuts, cinnamon, vanilla, sweet potatoes, cassava
  (tapioca), bananas; broiler chickens; tuna fish

Sierra Leone:
  rice, coffee, cocoa, palm kernels, palm oil, peanuts;
  poultry, cattle, sheep, pigs; fish

Singapore:
  rubber, copra, fruit, orchids, vegetables; poultry, eggs,
  fish, ornamental fish

Slovakia:
  grains, potatoes, sugar beets, hops, fruit; pigs, cattle,
  poultry; forest products

Slovenia:
  potatoes, hops, wheat, sugar beets, corn, grapes; cattle,
  sheep, poultry

Solomon Islands:
  cocoa, beans, coconuts, palm kernels, rice,
  potatoes, vegetables, fruit; cattle, pigs; timber; fish

Somalia:
  cattle, sheep, goats; bananas, sorghum, corn, sugarcane,
  mangoes, sesame seeds, beans; fish

South Africa:
  corn, wheat, sugarcane, fruits, vegetables; beef,
  poultry, mutton, wool, dairy products

Spain:
  grain, vegetables, olives, wine grapes, sugar beets, citrus;
  beef, pork, poultry, dairy products; fish

Sri Lanka:
  rice, sugarcane, grains, pulses, oilseed, spices, tea,
  rubber, coconuts; milk, eggs, hides, beef

Sudan:
  cotton, groundnuts (peanuts), sorghum, millet, wheat, gum
  arabic, sugarcane, cassara, mangos, papaya, bananas, sweet potatoes,
  sesame; sheep, livestock

Suriname:
  paddy rice, bananas, palm kernels, coconuts, plantains,
  peanuts; beef, chickens; forest products; shrimp

Swaziland:
  sugarcane, cotton, corn, tobacco, rice, citrus,
  pineapples, sorghum, peanuts; cattle, goats, sheep

Sweden:
  grains, sugar beets, potatoes; meat, milk

Switzerland:
  grains, fruits, vegetables; meat, eggs

Syria:
  wheat, barley, cotton, lentils, chickpeas, olives, sugar
  beets; beef, mutton, eggs, poultry, milk

Tajikistan:
  cotton, grain, fruits, grapes, vegetables; cattle,
  sheep, goats

Tanzania:
  coffee, sisal, tea, cotton, pyrethrum (insecticide made
  from chrysanthemums), cashew nuts, tobacco, cloves (Zanzibar), corn,
  wheat, cassava (tapioca), bananas, fruits, vegetables; cattle,
  sheep, goats

Thailand:
  rice, cassava (tapioca), rubber, corn, sugarcane,
  coconuts, soybeans

Togo:
  coffee, cocoa, cotton, yams, cassava (tapioca), corn, beans,
  rice, millet, sorghum; livestock; fish

Tokelau:
  coconuts, copra, breadfruit, papayas, bananas; pigs,
  poultry, goats

Tonga:
  squash, coconuts, copra, bananas, vanilla beans, cocoa,
  coffee, ginger, black pepper; fish

Trinidad and Tobago:
  cocoa, sugarcane, rice, citrus, coffee,
  vegetables; poultry

Tunisia:
  olives, olive oil, grain, dairy products, tomatoes, citrus
  fruit, beef, sugar beets, dates, almonds

Turkey:
  tobacco, cotton, grain, olives, sugar beets, pulse, citrus;
  livestock

Turkmenistan:
  cotton, grain; livestock

Turks and Caicos Islands:
  corn, beans, cassava (tapioca), citrus
  fruits; fish

Tuvalu:
  coconuts; fish

Uganda:
  coffee, tea, cotton, tobacco, cassava (tapioca), potatoes,
  corn, millet, pulses; beef, goat meat, milk, poultry

Ukraine:
  grain, sugar beets, sunflower seeds, vegetables; beef, milk

United Arab Emirates:
  dates, vegetables, watermelons; poultry, eggs,
  dairy products; fish

United Kingdom:
  cereals, oilseed, potatoes, vegetables; cattle,
  sheep, poultry; fish

United States:
  wheat, other grains, corn, fruits, vegetables,
  cotton; beef, pork, poultry, dairy products; forest products; fish

Uruguay:
  wheat, rice, barley, corn, sorghum; livestock; fish

Uzbekistan:
  cotton, vegetables, fruits, grain; livestock

Vanuatu:
  copra, coconuts, cocoa, coffee, taro, yams, coconuts,
  fruits, vegetables; fish, beef

Venezuela:
  corn, sorghum, sugarcane, rice, bananas, vegetables,
  coffee; beef, pork, milk, eggs; fish

Vietnam:
  paddy rice, corn, potatoes, rubber, soybeans, coffee, tea,
  bananas, sugar; poultry, pigs; fish

Virgin Islands:
  fruit, vegetables, sorghum; Senepol cattle

Wallis and Futuna:
  breadfruit, yams, taro, bananas; pigs, goats

West Bank:
  olives, citrus, vegetables; beef, dairy products

Western Sahara:
  fruits and vegetables (grown in the few oases);
  camels, sheep, goats (kept by nomads)

Yemen:
  grain, fruits, vegetables, pulses, qat (mildly narcotic
  shrub), coffee, cotton; dairy products, livestock (sheep, goats,
  cattle, camels), poultry; fish

Yugoslavia:
  cereals, fruits, vegetables, tobacco, olives; cattle,
  sheep, goats

Zambia:
  corn, sorghum, rice, peanuts, sunflower seed, vegetables,
  flowers, tobacco, cotton, sugarcane, cassava (tapioca); cattle,
  goats, pigs, poultry, milk, eggs, hides; coffee

Zimbabwe:
  corn, cotton, tobacco, wheat, coffee, sugarcane, peanuts;
  cattle, sheep, goats, pigs

Taiwan:
  rice, corn, vegetables, fruit, tea; pigs, poultry, beef,
  milk; fish

======================================================================

@Airports



Afghanistan:
  45 (2000 est.)

Albania:
  11 (2000 est.)

Algeria:
  135 (2000 est.)

American Samoa:
  4 (2000 est.)

Andorra:
  none (2000 est.)

Angola:
  247 (2000 est.)

Anguilla:
  3 (2000 est.)

Antarctica:
  19

  note:  27 stations, operated by 16 national governments party to the
  Antarctic Treaty, have aircraft landing facilities for either
  helicopters and/or fixed-wing aircraft; commercial enterprises
  operate two additional aircraft landing facilities; helicopter pads
  are available at 27 stations; runways at 15 locations are gravel,
  sea-ice, blue-ice, or compacted snow suitable for landing wheeled,
  fixed-wing aircraft; of these, 1 is greater than 3 km in length, 6
  are between 2 km and 3 km in length, 3 are between 1 km and 2 km in
  length, 3 are less than 1 km in length, and 2 are of unknown length;
  snow surface skiways, limited to use by ski-equipped, fixed-wing
  aircraft, are available at another 15 locations; of these, 4 are
  greater than 3 km in length, 3 are between 2 km and 3 km in length,
  2 are between 1 km and 2 km in length, 2 are less than 1 km in
  length, and 4 are of unknown length; aircraft landing facilities
  generally subject to severe restrictions and limitations resulting
  from extreme seasonal and geographic conditions; aircraft landing
  facilities do not meet ICAO standards; advance approval from the
  respective governmental or nongovernmental operating organization
  required for landing (2001 est.)

Antigua and Barbuda:
  3 (2000 est.)

Argentina:
  1,359 (2000 est.)

Armenia:
  7 (2000 est.)

Aruba:
  1 (2000 est.)

Australia:
  411 (2000 est.)

Austria:
  55 (2000 est.)

Azerbaijan:
  52 (2000 est.)

Bahamas, The:
  65 (2000 est.)

Bahrain:
  3 (2000 est.)

Baker Island:
  1 abandoned World War II runway of 1,665 m, completely
  covered with vegetation and unusable (2000 est.)

Bangladesh:
  18 (2000 est.)

Barbados:
  1 (2000 est.)

Belarus:
  136 (2000 est.)

Belgium:
  42 (2000 est.)

Belize:
  44 (2000 est.)

Benin:
  5 (2000 est.)

Bermuda:
  1 (2000 est.)

Bhutan:
  2 (2000 est.)

Bolivia:
  1,093 (2000 est.)

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  28 (2000 est.)

Botswana:
  92 (2000 est.)

Brazil:
  3,264 (2000 est.)

British Indian Ocean Territory:
  1 (2000 est.)

British Virgin Islands:
  3 (2000 est.)

Brunei:
  2 (2000 est.)

Bulgaria:
  215 (2000 est.)

Burkina Faso:
  33 (2000 est.)

Burma:
  80 (2000 est.)

Burundi:
  4 (2000 est.)

Cambodia:
  19 (2000 est.)

Cameroon:
  49 (2000 est.)

Canada:
  1,417 (2000 est.)

Cape Verde:
  8 (2000)

Cayman Islands:
  3 (2000 est.)

Central African Republic:
  52 (2000 est.)

Chad:
  50 (2000 est.)

Chile:
  366 (2000 est.)

China:
  489 (2000 est.)

Christmas Island:
  1 (2000 est.)

Cocos (Keeling) Islands:
  1 (2000 est.)

Colombia:
  1,091 (2000 est.)

Comoros:
  4 (2000 est.)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  232 (2000 est.)

Congo, Republic of the:
  33 (2000 est.)

Cook Islands:
  7 (2000 est.)

Costa Rica:
  152 (2000 est.)

Cote d'Ivoire:
  36 (2000 est.)

Croatia:
  67 (2000 est.)

Cuba:
  171 (2000 est.)

Cyprus:
  15 (2000 est.)

Czech Republic:
  114 (2000 est.)

Denmark:
  119 (2000 est.)

Djibouti:
  12 (2000 est.)

Dominica:
  2 (2000 est.)

Dominican Republic:
  29 (2000 est.)

Ecuador:
  180 (2000 est.)

Egypt:
  90 (2000 est.)

El Salvador:
  83 (2000 est.)

Equatorial Guinea:
  3 (2000 est.)

Eritrea:
  20 (2000 est.)

Estonia:
  32 (2000 est.)

Ethiopia:
  86 (2000 est.)

Europa Island:
  1 (2000 est.)

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas):
  5 (2000 est.)

Faroe Islands:
  1 (2000 est.)

Fiji:
  27 (2000 est.)

Finland:
  159 (2000 est.)

France:
  475 (2000 est.)

French Guiana:
  11 (2000 est.)

French Polynesia:
  45 (2000 est.)

French Southern and Antarctic Lands:
  none

Gabon:
  59 (2000 est.)

Gambia, The:
  1 (2000 est.)

Gaza Strip:
  2

  note:  includes Gaza International Airport that opened on 24
  November 1998 as part of agreements stipulated in the September 1995
  Oslo II Accord and the 23 October 1998 Wye River Memorandum (2000
  est.)

Georgia:
  31 (2000 est.)

Germany:
  613 (2000 est.)

Ghana:
  12 (2000 est.)

Gibraltar:
  1 (2000 est.)

Glorioso Islands:
  1 (2000 est.)

Greece:
  81 (2000 est.)

Greenland:
  13 (2000 est.)

Grenada:
  3 (2000 est.)

Guadeloupe:
  9 (2000 est.)

Guam:
  5 (2000 est.)

Guatemala:
  477 (2000 est.)

Guernsey:
  2 (2000 est.)

Guinea:
  15 (2000 est.)

Guinea-Bissau:
  29 (2000 est.)

Guyana:
  51 (2000 est.)

Haiti:
  13 (2000 est.)

Holy See (Vatican City):
  none

Honduras:
  119 (2000 est.)

Hong Kong:
  3 (2000 est.)

Howland Island:
  airstrip constructed in 1937 for scheduled refueling
  stop on the round-the-world flight of Amelia EARHART and Fred NOONAN
  - they left Lae, New Guinea, for Howland Island, but were never seen
  again; the airstrip is no longer serviceable (2000 est.)

Hungary:
  43 (2000 est.)

Iceland:
  87 (2000 est.)

India:
  337 (2000 est.)

Indonesia:
  453 (2000 est.)

Iran:
  317 (2000 est.)

Iraq:
  110 (2000 est.)

Ireland:
  44 (2000 est.)

Israel:
  55 (2000 est.)

Italy:
  135 (2000 est.)

Jamaica:
  35 (2000 est.)

Jan Mayen:
  1 (2000 est.)

Japan:
  173 (2000 est.)

Jersey:
  1 (2000 est.)

Johnston Atoll:
  1; note - six flights per week; three commercial,
  three military (2001 est.)

Jordan:
  18 (2000 est.)

Juan de Nova Island:
  1 (2000 est.)

Kazakhstan:
  449 (2000 est.)

Kenya:
  230 (2000 est.)

Kingman Reef:
  lagoon was used as a halfway station between Hawaii
  and American Samoa by Pan American Airways for flying boats in 1937
  and 1938 (2000 est.)

Kiribati:
  21 (2000 est.)

Korea, North:
  87 (2000 est.)

Korea, South:
  102 (2000 est.)

Kuwait:
  8 (2000 est.)

Kyrgyzstan:
  50 (2000 est.)

Laos:
  51 (2000 est.)

Latvia:
  25 (2000 est.)

Lebanon:
  8 (2000 est.)

Lesotho:
  29 (2000 est.)

Liberia:
  46 (2000 est.)

Libya:
  136 (2000 est.)

Liechtenstein:
  none

Lithuania:
  72 (2000 est.)

Luxembourg:
  2 (2000 est.)

Macau:
  1 (2000 est.)

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  16 (2000 est.)

Madagascar:
  130 (2000 est.)

Malawi:
  44 (2000 est.)

Malaysia:
  115 (2000 est.)

Maldives:
  5 (2000 est.)

Mali:
  27 (2000 est.)

Malta:
  1 (2000 est.)

Man, Isle of:
  1 (2000 est.)

Marshall Islands:
  16 (2000 est.)

Martinique:
  2 (2000 est.)

Mauritania:
  26 (2000 est.)

Mauritius:
  5 (2000 est.)

Mayotte:
  1 (2000 est.)

Mexico:
  1,848 (2000 est.)

Micronesia, Federated States of:
  7 (2000 est.)

Midway Islands:
  3 (2000 est.)

Moldova:
  30 (2000 est.)

Monaco:
  linked to airport in Nice, France, by helicopter service

Mongolia:
  34 (2000 est.)

Montserrat:
  1 (2000 est.)

Morocco:
  69 (2000 est.)

Mozambique:
  168 (2000 est.)

Namibia:
  131 (2000 est.)

Nauru:
  1 (2000 est.)

Nepal:
  45 (2000 est.)

Netherlands:
  28 (2000 est.)

Netherlands Antilles:
  5 (2000 est.)

New Caledonia:
  29 (2000 est.)

New Zealand:
  111 (2000 est.)

Nicaragua:
  182 (2000 est.)

Niger:
  27 (2000 est.)

Nigeria:
  70 (2000 est.)

Niue:
  1 (2000 est.)

Norfolk Island:
  1 (2000 est.)

Northern Mariana Islands:
  6 (2000 est.)

Norway:
  103 (2000 est.)

Oman:
  143 (2000 est.)

Pakistan:
  117 (2000 est.)

Palau:
  3 (2000 est.)

Palmyra Atoll:
  1 (2000 est.)

Panama:
  107 (2000 est.)

Papua New Guinea:
  492 (2000 est.)

Paracel Islands:
  1 (2000 est.)

Paraguay:
  915 (2000 est.)

Peru:
  233 (2000 est.)

Philippines:
  288 (2000 est.)

Pitcairn Islands:
  none

Poland:
  122 (2000 est.)

Portugal:
  66 (2000 est.)

Puerto Rico:
  28 (2000 est.)

Qatar:
  4 (2000 est.)

Reunion:
  2 (2000 est.)

Romania:
  62 (2000 est.)

Russia:
  2,743 (2000 est.)

Rwanda:
  8 (2000 est.)

Saint Helena:
  1 (2000 est.)

Saint Kitts and Nevis:
  2 (2000 est.)

Saint Lucia:
  2 (2000 est.)

Saint Pierre and Miquelon:
  2 (2000 est.)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:
  6 (2000 est.)

Samoa:
  3 (2000 est.)

San Marino:
  none

Sao Tome and Principe:
  2 (2000 est.)

Saudi Arabia:
  206 (2000 est.)

Senegal:
  20 (2000 est.)

Seychelles:
  14 (2000 est.)

Sierra Leone:
  11 (2000 est.)

Singapore:
  9 (2000 est.)

Slovakia:
  35 (2000 est.)

Slovenia:
  14 (2000 est.)

Solomon Islands:
  31 (2000 est.)

Somalia:
  62 (2000 est.)

South Africa:
  741 (2000 est.)

South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands:
  none

Spain:
  110 (2000 est.)

Spratly Islands:
  4 (2000 est.)

Sri Lanka:
  14 (2000 est.)

Sudan:
  61 (2000 est.)

Suriname:
  46 (2000 est.)

Svalbard:
  4 (2000 est.)

Swaziland:
  18 (2000 est.)

Sweden:
  255 (2000 est.)

Switzerland:
  67 (2000 est.)

Syria:
  100 (2000 est.)

Tajikistan:
  53 (2000 est.)

Tanzania:
  126 (2000 est.)

Thailand:
  110 (2000 est.)

Togo:
  9 (2000 est.)

Tokelau:
  none; lagoon landings by amphibious aircraft from Samoa

Tonga:
  6 (2000 est.)

Trinidad and Tobago:
  6 (2000 est.)

Tromelin Island:
  1 (2000 est.)

Tunisia:
  32 (2000 est.)

Turkey:
  121 (2000 est.)

Turkmenistan:
  76 (2000 est.)

Turks and Caicos Islands:
  8 (2000 est.)

Tuvalu:
  1 (2000 est.)

Uganda:
  28 (2000 est.)

Ukraine:
  718 (2000 est.)

United Arab Emirates:
  40 (2000 est.)

United Kingdom:
  489 (2000 est.)

United States:
  14,720 (2000 est.)

Uruguay:
  64 (2000 est.)

Uzbekistan:
  267 (2000 est.)

Vanuatu:
  32 (2000 est.)

Venezuela:
  371 (2000 est.)

Vietnam:
  34 (2000 est.)

Virgin Islands:
  2

  note:  international airports on Saint Thomas and Saint Croix (2000
  est.)

Wake Island:
  1 (2000 est.)

Wallis and Futuna:
  2 (2000 est.)

West Bank:
  3 (2000 est.)

Western Sahara:
  11 (2000 est.)

Yemen:
  50 (2000 est.)

Yugoslavia:
  47 (2000 est.)

Zambia:
  112 (2000 est.)

Zimbabwe:
  455 (2000 est.)

Taiwan:
  39 (2000 est.)

======================================================================

@Airports - with paved runways



Afghanistan:
  total:  10

  over 3,047 m:  3

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  4

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  2

  under 914 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Albania:
  total:  3

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  3 (2000 est.)

Algeria:
  total:  51

  over 3,047 m:  9

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  24

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  12

  914 to 1,523 m:  5

  under 914 m:  1 (2000 est.)

American Samoa:
  total:  2

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  1

  under 914 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Angola:
  total:  31

  over 3,047 m:  4

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  8

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  12

  914 to 1,523 m:  6

  under 914 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Anguilla:
  total:  1

  914 to 1,523 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Antigua and Barbuda:
  total:  2

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  1

  under 914 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Argentina:
  total:  143

  over 3,047 m:  4

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  25

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  57

  914 to 1,523 m:  48

  under 914 m:  9 (2000 est.)

Aruba:
  total:  1

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Australia:
  total:  271

  over 3,047 m:  10

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  12

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  118

  914 to 1,523 m:  122

  under 914 m:  9 (2000 est.)

Austria:
  total:  24

  over 3,047 m:  1

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  5

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

  914 to 1,523 m:  3

  under 914 m:  14 (2000 est.)

Azerbaijan:
  total:  9

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  5

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  4 (2000 est.)

Bahamas, The:
  total:  36

  over 3,047 m:  2

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  2

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  16

  914 to 1,523 m:  13

  under 914 m:  3 (2000 est.)

Bahrain:
  total:  2

  over 3,047 m:  2 (2000 est.)

Bangladesh:
  total:  15

  over 3,047 m:  2

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  3

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  4

  914 to 1,523 m:  1

  under 914 m:  5 (2000 est.)

Barbados:
  total:  1

  over 3,047 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Belarus:
  total:  33

  over 3,047 m:  2

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  19

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

  under 914 m:  11 (2000 est.)

Belgium:
  total:  24

  over 3,047 m:  6

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  8

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  3

  914 to 1,523 m:  1

  under 914 m:  6 (2000 est.)

Belize:
  total:  4

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

  914 to 1,523 m:  1

  under 914 m:  2 (2000 est.)

Benin:
  total:  1

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Bermuda:
  total:  1

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Bhutan:
  total:  1

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Bolivia:
  total:  13

  over 3,047 m:  4

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  3

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  4

  914 to 1,523 m:  2 (2000 est.)

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  total:  9

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  4

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  2

  under 914 m:  3 (2000 est.)

Botswana:
  total:  11

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  2

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  8

  914 to 1,523 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Brazil:
  total:  570

  over 3,047 m:  5

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  21

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  141

  914 to 1,523 m:  370

  under 914 m:  33 (2000 est.)

British Indian Ocean Territory:
  total:  1

  over 3,047 m:  1 (2000 est.)

British Virgin Islands:
  total:  2

  914 to 1,523 m:  1

  under 914 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Brunei:
  total:  1

  over 3,047 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Bulgaria:
  total:  128

  over 3,047 m:  1

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  19

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  15

  914 to 1,523 m:  1

  under 914 m:  92 (2000 est.)

Burkina Faso:
  total:  2

  over 3,047 m:  1

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Burma:
  total:  9

  over 3,047 m:  3

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  1

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  4

  914 to 1,523 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Burundi:
  total:  1

  over 3,047 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Cambodia:
  total:  6

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  2

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  2

  914 to 1,523 m:  2 (2000 est.)

Cameroon:
  total:  11

  over 3,047 m:  2

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  4

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  3

  914 to 1,523 m:  1

  under 914 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Canada:
  total:  517

  over 3,047 m:  18

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  15

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  151

  914 to 1,523 m:  244

  under 914 m:  89 (2000 est.)

Cape Verde:
  total:  8

  over 3,047 m:  1

  914 to 1,523 m:  7 (2000)

Cayman Islands:
  total:  2

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  2 (2000 est.)

Central African Republic:
  total:  3

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  1

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  2 (2000 est.)

Chad:
  total:  7

  over 3,047 m:  2

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  3

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

  under 914 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Chile:
  total:  69

  over 3,047 m:  6

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  6

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  22

  914 to 1,523 m:  21

  under 914 m:  14 (2000 est.)

China:
  total:  324

  over 3,047 m:  27

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  88

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  147

  914 to 1,523 m:  30

  under 914 m:  32 (2000 est.)

Christmas Island:
  total:  1

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Cocos (Keeling) Islands:
  total:  1

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Colombia:
  total:  92

  over 3,047 m:  2

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  8

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  38

  914 to 1,523 m:  36

  under 914 m:  8 (2000 est.)

Comoros:
  total:  4

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  1

  914 to 1,523 m:  3 (2000 est.)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  total:  24

  over 3,047 m:  4

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  3

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  15

  914 to 1,523 m:  2 (2000 est.)

Congo, Republic of the:
  total:  4

  over 3,047 m:  1

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  3 (2000 est.)

Cook Islands:
  total:  1

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Costa Rica:
  total:  29

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  2

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

  914 to 1,523 m:  19

  under 914 m:  7 (2000 est.)

Cote d'Ivoire:
  total:  7

  over 3,047 m:  1

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  2

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  4 (2000 est.)

Croatia:
  total:  22

  over 3,047 m:  2

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  6

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  2

  914 to 1,523 m:  4

  under 914 m:  8 (2000 est.)

Cuba:
  total:  77

  over 3,047 m:  7

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  9

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  16

  914 to 1,523 m:  10

  under 914 m:  35 (2000 est.)

Cyprus:
  total:  12

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  7

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

  914 to 1,523 m:  3

  under 914 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Czech Republic:
  total:  43

  over 3,047 m:  2

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  10

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  14

  914 to 1,523 m:  1

  under 914 m:  16 (2000 est.)

Denmark:
  total:  28

  over 3,047 m:  2

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  7

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  4

  914 to 1,523 m:  12

  under 914 m:  3 (2000 est.)

Djibouti:
  total:  2

  over 3,047 m:  1

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Dominica:
  total:  2

  914 to 1,523 m:  2 (2000 est.)

Dominican Republic:
  total:  13

  over 3,047 m:  3

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  2

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  4

  914 to 1,523 m:  3

  under 914 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Ecuador:
  total:  59

  over 3,047 m:  2

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  5

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  18

  914 to 1,523 m:  15

  under 914 m:  19 (2000 est.)

Egypt:
  total:  69

  over 3,047 m:  12

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  35

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  17

  914 to 1,523 m:  2

  under 914 m:  3 (2000 est.)

El Salvador:
  total:  4

  over 3,047 m:  1

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

  914 to 1,523 m:  2 (2000 est.)

Equatorial Guinea:
  total:  2

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  1

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Eritrea:
  total:  2

  over 3,047 m:  1

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Estonia:
  total:  8

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  7

  under 914 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Ethiopia:
  total:  12

  over 3,047 m:  3

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  5

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  3

  914 to 1,523 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas):
  total:  2

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  1

  under 914 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Faroe Islands:
  total:  1

  914 to 1,523 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Fiji:
  total:  3

  over 3,047 m:  1

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

  914 to 1,523 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Finland:
  total:  69

  over 3,047 m:  3

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  26

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  10

  914 to 1,523 m:  20

  under 914 m:  10 (2000 est.)

France:
  total:  268

  over 3,047 m:  14

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  30

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  94

  914 to 1,523 m:  72

  under 914 m:  58 (2000 est.)

French Guiana:
  total:  4

  over 3,047 m:  1

  914 to 1,523 m:  2

  under 914 m:  1 (2000 est.)

French Polynesia:
  total:  32

  over 3,047 m:  2

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  5

  914 to 1,523 m:  19

  under 914 m:  6 (2000 est.)

Gabon:
  total:  10

  over 3,047 m:  1

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  1

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  7

  914 to 1,523 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Gambia, The:
  total:  1

  over 3,047 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Gaza Strip:
  total:  1

  over 3,047 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Georgia:
  total:  16

  over 3,047 m:  1

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  8

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  2

  914 to 1,523 m:  2

  under 914 m:  3 (2000 est.)

Germany:
  total:  322

  over 3,047 m:  13

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  55

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  67

  914 to 1,523 m:  63

  under 914 m:  124 (2000 est.)

Ghana:
  total:  6

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  1

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  3

  914 to 1,523 m:  2 (2000 est.)

Gibraltar:
  total:  1

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Greece:
  total:  65

  over 3,047 m:  6

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  15

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  19

  914 to 1,523 m:  16

  under 914 m:  9 (2000 est.)

Greenland:
  total:  8

  over 3,047 m:  1

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  1

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

  914 to 1,523 m:  1

  under 914 m:  4 (2000 est.)

Grenada:
  total:  3

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  1

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

  under 914 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Guadeloupe:
  total:  8

  over 3,047 m:  1

  914 to 1,523 m:  2

  under 914 m:  5 (2000 est.)

Guam:
  total:  4

  over 3,047 m:  2

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  1

  914 to 1,523 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Guatemala:
  total:  11

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  3

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

  914 to 1,523 m:  5

  under 914 m:  2 (2000 est.)

Guernsey:
  total:  2

  914 to 1,523 m:  1

  under 914 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Guinea:
  total:  5

  over 3,047 m:  1

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  1

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  3 (2000 est.)

Guinea-Bissau:
  total:  3

  over 3,047 m:  1

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

  914 to 1,523 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Guyana:
  total:  6

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  3

  914 to 1,523 m:  1

  under 914 m:  2 (2000 est.)

Haiti:
  total:  3

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  1

  914 to 1,523 m:  2 (2000 est.)

Honduras:
  total:  12

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  3

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  2

  914 to 1,523 m:  4

  under 914 m:  3 (2000 est.)

Hong Kong:
  total:  3

  over 3,047 m:  2

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Hungary:
  total:  16

  over 3,047 m:  2

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  8

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  4

  914 to 1,523 m:  1

  under 914 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Iceland:
  total:  12

  over 3,047 m:  1

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  4

  914 to 1,523 m:  7 (2000 est.)

India:
  total:  235

  over 3,047 m:  13

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  48

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  81

  914 to 1,523 m:  77

  under 914 m:  16 (2000 est.)

Indonesia:
  total:  136

  over 3,047 m:  4

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  12

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  39

  914 to 1,523 m:  44

  under 914 m:  37 (2000 est.)

Iran:
  total:  117

  over 3,047 m:  38

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  23

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  25

  914 to 1,523 m:  24

  under 914 m:  7 (2000 est.)

Iraq:
  total:  76

  over 3,047 m:  20

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  36

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  6

  914 to 1,523 m:  7

  under 914 m:  7 (2000 est.)

Ireland:
  total:  17

  over 3,047 m:  1

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  1

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  3

  914 to 1,523 m:  5

  under 914 m:  7 (2000 est.)

Israel:
  total:  30

  over 3,047 m:  2

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  4

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  7

  914 to 1,523 m:  10

  under 914 m:  7 (2000 est.)

Italy:
  total:  97

  over 3,047 m:  5

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  32

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  17

  914 to 1,523 m:  31

  under 914 m:  12 (2000 est.)

Jamaica:
  total:  11

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  2

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

  914 to 1,523 m:  3

  under 914 m:  5 (2000 est.)

Japan:
  total:  142

  over 3,047 m:  8

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  36

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  38

  914 to 1,523 m:  30

  under 914 m:  30 (2000 est.)

Jersey:
  total:  1

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Johnston Atoll:
  total:  1

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Jordan:
  total:  15

  over 3,047 m:  7

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  6

  914 to 1,523 m:  1

  under 914 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Kazakhstan:
  total:  28

  over 3,047 m:  6

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  14

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  5

  under 914 m:  3 (2000 est.)

Kenya:
  total:  22

  over 3,047 m:  4

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  1

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  3

  914 to 1,523 m:  13

  under 914 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Kiribati:
  total:  4

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  4 (2000 est.)

Korea, North:
  total:  39

  over 3,047 m:  3

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  26

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  8

  914 to 1,523 m:  1

  under 914 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Korea, South:
  total:  68

  over 3,047 m:  2

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  18

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  16

  914 to 1,523 m:  11

  under 914 m:  21 (2000 est.)

Kuwait:
  total:  4

  over 3,047 m:  2

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  2 (2000 est.)

Kyrgyzstan:
  total:  4

  over 3,047 m:  1

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  1

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

  914 to 1,523 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Laos:
  total:  8

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  1

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  5

  914 to 1,523 m:  2 (2000 est.)

Latvia:
  total:  13

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  7

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

  914 to 1,523 m:  1

  under 914 m:  4 (2000 est.)

Lebanon:
  total:  5

  over 3,047 m:  1

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  2

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

  under 914 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Lesotho:
  total:  4

  over 3,047 m:  1

  914 to 1,523 m:  1

  under 914 m:  2 (2000 est.)

Liberia:
  total:  2

  over 3,047 m:  1

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Libya:
  total:  58

  over 3,047 m:  23

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  6

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  22

  914 to 1,523 m:  5

  under 914 m:  2 (2000 est.)

Lithuania:
  total:  9

  over 3,047 m:  2

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  4

  under 914 m:  3 (2000 est.)

Luxembourg:
  total:  1

  over 3,047 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Macau:
  total:  1

  over 3,047 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  total:  10

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  2

  under 914 m:  8 (2000 est.)

Madagascar:
  total:  29

  over 3,047 m:  1

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  2

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  5

  914 to 1,523 m:  19

  under 914 m:  2 (2000 est.)

Malawi:
  total:  6

  over 3,047 m:  1

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

  914 to 1,523 m:  4 (2000 est.)

Malaysia:
  total:  33

  over 3,047 m:  5

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  4

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  11

  914 to 1,523 m:  6

  under 914 m:  7 (2000 est.)

Maldives:
  total:  2

  over 3,047 m:  1

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Mali:
  total:  7

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  4

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

  914 to 1,523 m:  2 (2000 est.)

Malta:
  total:  1

  over 3,047 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Man, Isle of:
  total:  1

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Marshall Islands:
  total:  4

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  3

  914 to 1,523 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Martinique:
  total:  1

  over 3,047 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Mauritania:
  total:  8

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  3

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  5 (2000 est.)

Mauritius:
  total:  2

  over 3,047 m:  1

  914 to 1,523 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Mayotte:
  total:  1

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Mexico:
  total:  238

  over 3,047 m:  11

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  28

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  90

  914 to 1,523 m:  82

  under 914 m:  27 (2000 est.)

Micronesia, Federated States of:
  total:  6

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  4

  914 to 1,523 m:  2 (2000 est.)

Midway Islands:
  total:  2

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  2 (2000 est.)

Moldova:
  total:  7

  over 3,047 m:  1

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  2

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  3

  under 914 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Mongolia:
  total:  8

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  7

  under 914 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Montserrat:
  total:  1

  under 914 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Morocco:
  total:  26

  over 3,047 m:  10

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  5

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  9

  914 to 1,523 m:  1

  under 914 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Mozambique:
  total:  22

  over 3,047 m:  1

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  3

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  10

  914 to 1,523 m:  3

  under 914 m:  5 (2000 est.)

Namibia:
  total:  21

  over 3,047 m:  2

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  2

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  13

  914 to 1,523 m:  4 (2000 est.)

Nauru:
  total:  1

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Nepal:
  total:  8

  over 3,047 m:  1

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

  914 to 1,523 m:  6 (2000 est.)

Netherlands:
  total:  19

  over 3,047 m:  2

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  7

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  6

  914 to 1,523 m:  3

  under 914 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Netherlands Antilles:
  total:  5

  over 3,047 m:  1

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  2

  914 to 1,523 m:  1

  under 914 m:  1 (2000 est.)

New Caledonia:
  total:  6

  over 3,047 m:  1

  914 to 1,523 m:  4

  under 914 m:  1 (2000 est.)

New Zealand:
  total:  44

  over 3,047 m:  2

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  1

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  10

  914 to 1,523 m:  28

  under 914 m:  3 (2000 est.)

Nicaragua:
  total:  11

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  2

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  3

  914 to 1,523 m:  3

  under 914 m:  3 (2000 est.)

Niger:
  total:  9

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  2

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  6

  under 914 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Nigeria:
  total:  36

  over 3,047 m:  7

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  10

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  10

  914 to 1,523 m:  7

  under 914 m:  2 (2000 est.)

Niue:
  total:  1

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Norfolk Island:
  total:  1

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Northern Mariana Islands:
  total:  3

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  1

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  2 (2000 est.)

Norway:
  total:  67

  over 3,047 m:  1

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  12

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  12

  914 to 1,523 m:  14

  under 914 m:  28 (2000 est.)

Oman:
  total:  6

  over 3,047 m:  4

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  1

  914 to 1,523 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Pakistan:
  total:  82

  over 3,047 m:  12

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  21

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  32

  914 to 1,523 m:  14

  under 914 m:  3 (2000 est.)

Palau:
  total:  1

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Panama:
  total:  42

  over 3,047 m:  1

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  1

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  5

  914 to 1,523 m:  13

  under 914 m:  22 (2000 est.)

Papua New Guinea:
  total:  20

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  2

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  13

  914 to 1,523 m:  4

  under 914 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Paracel Islands:
  total:  1

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Paraguay:
  total:  11

  over 3,047 m:  3

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  4

  914 to 1,523 m:  4 (2000 est.)

Peru:
  total:  46

  over 3,047 m:  6

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  18

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  13

  914 to 1,523 m:  8

  under 914 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Philippines:
  total:  76

  over 3,047 m:  4

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  5

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  28

  914 to 1,523 m:  28

  under 914 m:  11 (2000 est.)

Poland:
  total:  83

  over 3,047 m:  3

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  29

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  42

  914 to 1,523 m:  6

  under 914 m:  3 (2000 est.)

Portugal:
  total:  40

  over 3,047 m:  5

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  9

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  4

  914 to 1,523 m:  17

  under 914 m:  5 (2000 est.)

Puerto Rico:
  total:  19

  over 3,047 m:  3

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  3

  914 to 1,523 m:  7

  under 914 m:  6 (2000 est.)

Qatar:
  total:  2

  over 3,047 m:  2 (2000 est.)

Reunion:
  total:  2

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  1

  914 to 1,523 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Romania:
  total:  25

  over 3,047 m:  3

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  10

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  12 (2000 est.)

Russia:
  total:  471

  over 3,047 m:  56

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  178

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  76

  914 to 1,523 m:  69

  under 914 m:  92 (2000 est.)

Rwanda:
  total:  4

  over 3,047 m:  1

  914 to 1,523 m:  2

  under 914 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Saint Helena:
  total:  1

  over 3,047 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Saint Kitts and Nevis:
  total:  2

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

  914 to 1,523 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Saint Lucia:
  total:  2

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  1

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Saint Pierre and Miquelon:
  total:  2

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

  914 to 1,523 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:
  total:  5

  914 to 1,523 m:  3

  under 914 m:  2 (2000 est.)

Samoa:
  total:  1

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Sao Tome and Principe:
  total:  2

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

  914 to 1,523 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Saudi Arabia:
  total:  70

  over 3,047 m:  31

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  11

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  23

  914 to 1,523 m:  3

  under 914 m:  2 (2000 est.)

Senegal:
  total:  10

  over 3,047 m:  1

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  7

  914 to 1,523 m:  2 (2000 est.)

Seychelles:
  total:  6

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  1

  914 to 1,523 m:  3

  under 914 m:  2 (2000 est.)

Sierra Leone:
  total:  1

  over 3,047 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Singapore:
  total:  9

  over 3,047 m:  2

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  1

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  4

  914 to 1,523 m:  1

  under 914 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Slovakia:
  total:  18

  over 3,047 m:  1

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  3

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  3

  914 to 1,523 m:  3

  under 914 m:  8 (2000 est.)

Slovenia:
  total:  6

  over 3,047 m:  1

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  1

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

  914 to 1,523 m:  2

  under 914 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Solomon Islands:
  total:  2

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

  914 to 1,523 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Somalia:
  total:  5

  over 3,047 m:  4

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  1 (2000 est.)

South Africa:
  total:  142

  over 3,047 m:  9

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  5

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  47

  914 to 1,523 m:  71

  under 914 m:  10 (2000 est.)

Spain:
  total:  75

  over 3,047 m:  15

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  10

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  18

  914 to 1,523 m:  19

  under 914 m:  13 (2000 est.)

Spratly Islands:
  total:  1

  914 to 1,523 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Sri Lanka:
  total:  12

  over 3,047 m:  1

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  5

  914 to 1,523 m:  6 (2000 est.)

Sudan:
  total:  12

  over 3,047 m:  1

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  8

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  3 (2000 est.)

Suriname:
  total:  5

  over 3,047 m:  1

  914 to 1,523 m:  1

  under 914 m:  3 (2000 est.)

Svalbard:
  total:  1

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Swaziland:
  total:  1

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Sweden:
  total:  147

  over 3,047 m:  3

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  11

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  80

  914 to 1,523 m:  28

  under 914 m:  25 (2000 est.)

Switzerland:
  total:  42

  over 3,047 m:  3

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  4

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  13

  914 to 1,523 m:  7

  under 914 m:  15 (2000 est.)

Syria:
  total:  24

  over 3,047 m:  5

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  16

  914 to 1,523 m:  1

  under 914 m:  2 (2000 est.)

Tajikistan:
  total:  2

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

  under 914 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Tanzania:
  total:  11

  over 3,047 m:  2

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  2

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  5

  914 to 1,523 m:  1

  under 914 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Thailand:
  total:  59

  over 3,047 m:  6

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  11

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  21

  914 to 1,523 m:  17

  under 914 m:  4 (2000 est.)

Togo:
  total:  2

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  2 (2000 est.)

Tonga:
  total:  1

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Trinidad and Tobago:
  total:  3

  over 3,047 m:  1

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  1

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Tunisia:
  total:  15

  over 3,047 m:  3

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  6

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  3

  914 to 1,523 m:  3 (2000 est.)

Turkey:
  total:  86

  over 3,047 m:  16

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  29

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  19

  914 to 1,523 m:  16

  under 914 m:  6 (2000 est.)

Turkmenistan:
  total:  13

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  9

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  4 (2000 est.)

Turks and Caicos Islands:
  total:  4

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  3

  914 to 1,523 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Uganda:
  total:  4

  over 3,047 m:  3

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Ukraine:
  total:  114

  over 3,047 m:  14

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  50

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  21

  914 to 1,523 m:  3

  under 914 m:  26 (2000 est.)

United Arab Emirates:
  total:  22

  over 3,047 m:  8

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  3

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  4

  914 to 1,523 m:  3

  under 914 m:  4 (2000 est.)

United Kingdom:
  total:  349

  over 3,047 m:  10

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  33

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  162

  914 to 1,523 m:  89

  under 914 m:  55 (2000 est.)

United States:
  total:  5,174

  over 3,047 m:  182

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  220

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  1,331

  914 to 1,523 m:  2,440

  under 914 m:  1,001 (2000 est.)

Uruguay:
  total:  15

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  1

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  5

  914 to 1,523 m:  8

  under 914 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Uzbekistan:
  total:  10

  over 3,047 m:  3

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  5

  under 914 m:  2 (2000 est.)

Vanuatu:
  total:  2

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  1

  914 to 1,523 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Venezuela:
  total:  124

  over 3,047 m:  4

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  12

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  32

  914 to 1,523 m:  59

  under 914 m:  17 (2000 est.)

Vietnam:
  total:  17

  over 3,047 m:  8

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  3

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  4

  under 914 m:  2 (2000 est.)

Virgin Islands:
  total:  2

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  2 (2000 est.)

Wake Island:
  total:  1

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Wallis and Futuna:
  total:  1

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  1 (2000 est.)

West Bank:
  total:  3

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  1

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

  under 914 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Western Sahara:
  total:  3

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  3 (2000 est.)

Yemen:
  total:  13

  over 3,047 m:  2

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  8

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

  914 to 1,523 m:  1

  under 914 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Yugoslavia:
  total:  19

  over 3,047 m:  2

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  5

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  5

  914 to 1,523 m:  3

  under 914 m:  4 (2000 est.)

Zambia:
  total:  13

  over 3,047 m:  1

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  3

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  5

  914 to 1,523 m:  3

  under 914 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Zimbabwe:
  total:  18

  over 3,047 m:  3

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  2

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  4

  914 to 1,523 m:  9 (2000 est.)

Taiwan:
  total:  35

  over 3,047 m:  8

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  9

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  8

  914 to 1,523 m:  7

  under 914 m:  3 (2000 est.)

======================================================================

@Airports - with unpaved runways



Afghanistan:
  total:  35

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  4

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  15

  914 to 1,523 m:  4

  under 914 m:  12 (2000 est.)

Albania:
  total:  8

  over 3,047 m:  1

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

  914 to 1,523 m:  2

  under 914 m:  4 (2000 est.)

Algeria:
  total:  84

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  3

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  23

  914 to 1,523 m:  40

  under 914 m:  18 (2000 est.)

American Samoa:
  total:  2

  under 914 m:  2 (2000 est.)

Angola:
  total:  216

  over 3,047 m:  2

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  5

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  30

  914 to 1,523 m:  96

  under 914 m:  83 (2000 est.)

Anguilla:
  total:  2

  under 914 m:  2 (2000 est.)

Antarctica:
  total:  19

  over 3,047 m:  6

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  3

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

  914 to 1,523 m:  4

  under 914 m:  5 (2000 est.)

Antigua and Barbuda:
  total:  1

  under 914 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Argentina:
  total:  1,216

  over 3,047 m:  2

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  2

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  56

  914 to 1,523 m:  601

  under 914 m:  555 (2000 est.)

Armenia:
  total:  7

  over 3,047 m:  1

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  2

  914 to 1,523 m:  3

  under 914 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Australia:
  total:  140

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  17

  914 to 1,523 m:  112

  under 914 m:  11 (2000 est.)

Austria:
  total:  31

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

  914 to 1,523 m:  3

  under 914 m:  27 (2000 est.)

Azerbaijan:
  total:  43

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  7

  914 to 1,523 m:  8

  under 914 m:  28 (2000 est.)

Bahamas, The:
  total:  29

  914 to 1,523 m:  6

  under 914 m:  23 (2000 est.)

Bahrain:
  total:  1

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Bangladesh:
  total:  3

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

  under 914 m:  2 (2000 est.)

Belarus:
  total:  103

  over 3,047 m:  3

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  10

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  11

  914 to 1,523 m:  14

  under 914 m:  65 (2000 est.)

Belgium:
  total:  18

  914 to 1,523 m:  2

  under 914 m:  16 (2000 est.)

Belize:
  total:  40

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  1

  914 to 1,523 m:  10

  under 914 m:  29 (2000 est.)

Benin:
  total:  4

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  1

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

  914 to 1,523 m:  2 (2000 est.)

Bhutan:
  total:  1

  914 to 1,523 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Bolivia:
  total:  1,080

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  3

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  65

  914 to 1,523 m:  212

  under 914 m:  800 (2000 est.)

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  total:  19

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

  914 to 1,523 m:  7

  under 914 m:  11 (2000 est.)

Botswana:
  total:  81

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  3

  914 to 1,523 m:  56

  under 914 m:  22 (2000 est.)

Brazil:
  total:  2,694

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  68

  914 to 1,523 m:  1,279

  under 914 m:  1,347 (2000 est.)

British Virgin Islands:
  total:  1

  914 to 1,523 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Brunei:
  total:  1

  914 to 1,523 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Bulgaria:
  total:  87

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  2

  914 to 1,523 m:  10

  under 914 m:  75 (2000 est.)

Burkina Faso:
  total:  31

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  3

  914 to 1,523 m:  12

  under 914 m:  16 (2000 est.)

Burma:
  total:  71

  over 3,047 m:  2

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  15

  914 to 1,523 m:  22

  under 914 m:  32 (2000 est.)

Burundi:
  total:  3

  914 to 1,523 m:  3 (2000 est.)

Cambodia:
  total:  13

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  2

  914 to 1,523 m:  11 (2000 est.)

Cameroon:
  total:  38

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  7

  914 to 1,523 m:  21

  under 914 m:  10 (2000 est.)

Canada:
  total:  900

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  74

  914 to 1,523 m:  362

  under 914 m:  464 (2000 est.)

Cayman Islands:
  total:  1

  914 to 1,523 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Central African Republic:
  total:  49

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  1

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  10

  914 to 1,523 m:  23

  under 914 m:  15 (2000 est.)

Chad:
  total:  43

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  12

  914 to 1,523 m:  20

  under 914 m:  11 (2000 est.)

Chile:
  total:  297

  over 3,047 m:  1

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  4

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  11

  914 to 1,523 m:  62

  under 914 m:  219 (2000 est.)

China:
  total:  165

  over 3,047 m:  1

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  1

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  29

  914 to 1,523 m:  56

  under 914 m:  78 (2000 est.)

Colombia:
  total:  999

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  1

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  64

  914 to 1,523 m:  321

  under 914 m:  613 (2000 est.)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  total:  208

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  20

  914 to 1,523 m:  96

  under 914 m:  92 (2000 est.)

Congo, Republic of the:
  total:  29

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  7

  914 to 1,523 m:  12

  under 914 m:  10 (2000 est.)

Cook Islands:
  total:  6

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  3

  914 to 1,523 m:  3 (2000 est.)

Costa Rica:
  total:  123

  914 to 1,523 m:  28

  under 914 m:  95 (2000 est.)

Cote d'Ivoire:
  total:  29

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  8

  914 to 1,523 m:  12

  under 914 m:  9 (2000 est.)

Croatia:
  total:  45

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

  914 to 1,523 m:  8

  under 914 m:  36 (2000 est.)

Cuba:
  total:  94

  914 to 1,523 m:  31

  under 914 m:  63 (2000 est.)

Cyprus:
  total:  3

  914 to 1,523 m:  1

  under 914 m:  2 (2000 est.)

Czech Republic:
  total:  71

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

  914 to 1,523 m:  28

  under 914 m:  42 (2000 est.)

Denmark:
  total:  91

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

  914 to 1,523 m:  7

  under 914 m:  83 (2000 est.)

Djibouti:
  total:  10

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  2

  914 to 1,523 m:  5

  under 914 m:  3 (2000 est.)

Dominican Republic:
  total:  16

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  2

  914 to 1,523 m:  4

  under 914 m:  10 (2000 est.)

Ecuador:
  total:  121

  914 to 1,523 m:  32

  under 914 m:  89 (2000 est.)

Egypt:
  total:  21

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  2

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  2

  914 to 1,523 m:  7

  under 914 m:  10 (2000 est.)

El Salvador:
  total:  79

  914 to 1,523 m:  17

  under 914 m:  62 (2000 est.)

Equatorial Guinea:
  total:  1

  under 914 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Eritrea:
  total:  18

  over 3,047 m:  2

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  2

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  5

  914 to 1,523 m:  7

  under 914 m:  2 (2000 est.)

Estonia:
  total:  24

  over 3,047 m:  1

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  5

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  7

  914 to 1,523 m:  5

  under 914 m:  6 (2000 est.)

Ethiopia:
  total:  74

  over 3,047 m:  2

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  7

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  10

  914 to 1,523 m:  35

  under 914 m:  20 (2000 est.)

Europa Island:
  total:  1

  914 to 1,523 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas):
  total:  3

  under 914 m:  3 (2000 est.)

Fiji:
  total:  24

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

  914 to 1,523 m:  4

  under 914 m:  19 (2000 est.)

Finland:
  total:  90

  914 to 1,523 m:  6

  under 914 m:  84 (2000 est.)

France:
  total:  207

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  4

  914 to 1,523 m:  73

  under 914 m:  130 (2000 est.)

French Guiana:
  total:  7

  914 to 1,523 m:  2

  under 914 m:  5 (2000 est.)

French Polynesia:
  total:  13

  914 to 1,523 m:  3

  under 914 m:  10 (2000 est.)

Gabon:
  total:  49

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  8

  914 to 1,523 m:  17

  under 914 m:  24 (2000 est.)

Gaza Strip:
  total:  1

  under 914 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Georgia:
  total:  15

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  1

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  4

  914 to 1,523 m:  4

  under 914 m:  6 (2000 est.)

Germany:
  total:  291

  over 3,047 m:  2

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  6

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  5

  914 to 1,523 m:  53

  under 914 m:  225 (2000 est.)

Ghana:
  total:  6

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

  914 to 1,523 m:  3

  under 914 m:  2 (2000 est.)

Glorioso Islands:
  total:  1

  914 to 1,523 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Greece:
  total:  16

  over 3,047 m:  1

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

  914 to 1,523 m:  4

  under 914 m:  10 (2000 est.)

Greenland:
  total:  5

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

  914 to 1,523 m:  3

  under 914 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Guadeloupe:
  total:  1

  under 914 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Guam:
  total:  1

  under 914 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Guatemala:
  total:  466

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  1

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  9

  914 to 1,523 m:  124

  under 914 m:  332 (2000 est.)

Guinea:
  total:  10

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  6

  914 to 1,523 m:  3

  under 914 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Guinea-Bissau:
  total:  26

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

  914 to 1,523 m:  4

  under 914 m:  21 (2000 est.)

Guyana:
  total:  45

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

  914 to 1,523 m:  8

  under 914 m:  36 (2000 est.)

Haiti:
  total:  10

  914 to 1,523 m:  2

  under 914 m:  8 (2000 est.)

Honduras:
  total:  107

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  2

  914 to 1,523 m:  21

  under 914 m:  84 (2000 est.)

Hungary:
  total:  27

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  3

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  4

  914 to 1,523 m:  12

  under 914 m:  8 (2000 est.)

Iceland:
  total:  75

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  3

  914 to 1,523 m:  20

  under 914 m:  52 (2000 est.)

India:
  total:  102

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  1

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  6

  914 to 1,523 m:  40

  under 914 m:  55 (2000 est.)

Indonesia:
  total:  317

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  6

  914 to 1,523 m:  28

  under 914 m:  283 (2000 est.)

Iran:
  total:  200

  over 3,047 m:  2

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  3

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  13

  914 to 1,523 m:  122

  under 914 m:  60 (2000 est.)

Iraq:
  total:  34

  over 3,047 m:  3

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  5

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  4

  914 to 1,523 m:  10

  under 914 m:  12 (2000 est.)

Ireland:
  total:  27

  914 to 1,523 m:  2

  under 914 m:  25 (2000 est.)

Israel:
  total:  25

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

  914 to 1,523 m:  4

  under 914 m:  20 (2000 est.)

Italy:
  total:  38

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  2

  914 to 1,523 m:  18

  under 914 m:  18 (2000 est.)

Jamaica:
  total:  24

  914 to 1,523 m:  2

  under 914 m:  22 (2000 est.)

Jan Mayen:
  total:  1

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Japan:
  total:  31

  914 to 1,523 m:  4

  under 914 m:  27 (2000 est.)

Jordan:
  total:  3

  under 914 m:  3 (2000 est.)

Juan de Nova Island:
  total:  1

  914 to 1,523 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Kazakhstan:
  total:  421

  over 3,047 m:  11

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  18

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  45

  914 to 1,523 m:  101

  under 914 m:  246 (2000 est.)

Kenya:
  total:  208

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  1

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  14

  914 to 1,523 m:  109

  under 914 m:  84 (2000 est.)

Kiribati:
  total:  17

  914 to 1,523 m:  12

  under 914 m:  5 (2000 est.)

Korea, North:
  total:  48

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  3

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  24

  914 to 1,523 m:  13

  under 914 m:  8 (2000 est.)

Korea, South:
  total:  34

  914 to 1,523 m:  2

  under 914 m:  32 (2000 est.)

Kuwait:
  total:  4

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

  under 914 m:  3 (2000 est.)

Kyrgyzstan:
  total:  46

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  3

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  5

  914 to 1,523 m:  6

  under 914 m:  32 (2000 est.)

Laos:
  total:  43

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

  914 to 1,523 m:  17

  under 914 m:  25 (2000 est.)

Latvia:
  total:  12

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  1

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  2

  914 to 1,523 m:  2

  under 914 m:  7 (2000 est.)

Lebanon:
  total:  3

  914 to 1,523 m:  2

  under 914 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Lesotho:
  total:  25

  914 to 1,523 m:  4

  under 914 m:  21 (2000 est.)

Liberia:
  total:  44

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  3

  914 to 1,523 m:  5

  under 914 m:  36 (2000 est.)

Libya:
  total:  78

  over 3,047 m:  4

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  2

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  14

  914 to 1,523 m:  40

  under 914 m:  18 (2000 est.)

Lithuania:
  total:  63

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  3

  914 to 1,523 m:  5

  under 914 m:  55 (2000 est.)

Luxembourg:
  total:  1

  under 914 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  total:  6

  914 to 1,523 m:  3

  under 914 m:  3 (2000 est.)

Madagascar:
  total:  101

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  2

  914 to 1,523 m:  56

  under 914 m:  43 (2000 est.)

Malawi:
  total:  38

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

  914 to 1,523 m:  14

  under 914 m:  23 (2000 est.)

Malaysia:
  total:  82

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

  914 to 1,523 m:  8

  under 914 m:  73 (2000 est.)

Maldives:
  total:  3

  914 to 1,523 m:  3 (2000 est.)

Mali:
  total:  20

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  4

  914 to 1,523 m:  7

  under 914 m:  9 (2000 est.)

Marshall Islands:
  total:  12

  914 to 1,523 m:  9

  under 914 m:  3 (2000 est.)

Martinique:
  total:  1

  under 914 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Mauritania:
  total:  18

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  2

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  4

  914 to 1,523 m:  9

  under 914 m:  3 (2000 est.)

Mauritius:
  total:  3

  914 to 1,523 m:  1

  under 914 m:  2 (2000 est.)

Mexico:
  total:  1,610

  over 3,047 m:  1

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  1

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  65

  914 to 1,523 m:  470

  under 914 m:  1,073 (2000 est.)

Micronesia, Federated States of:
  total:  1

  914 to 1,523 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Midway Islands:
  total:  1

  914 to 1,523 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Moldova:
  total:  23

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  4

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

  914 to 1,523 m:  4

  under 914 m:  14 (2000 est.)

Mongolia:
  total:  26

  over 3,047 m:  3

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  5

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  10

  914 to 1,523 m:  3

  under 914 m:  5 (2000 est.)

Morocco:
  total:  43

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  1

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  11

  914 to 1,523 m:  20

  under 914 m:  11 (2000 est.)

Mozambique:
  total:  146

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  1

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  16

  914 to 1,523 m:  37

  under 914 m:  92 (2000 est.)

Namibia:
  total:  110

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  2

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  21

  914 to 1,523 m:  69

  under 914 m:  18 (2000 est.)

Nepal:
  total:  37

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

  914 to 1,523 m:  7

  under 914 m:  29 (2000 est.)

Netherlands:
  total:  9

  914 to 1,523 m:  3

  under 914 m:  6 (2000 est.)

New Caledonia:
  total:  23

  914 to 1,523 m:  12

  under 914 m:  11 (2000 est.)

New Zealand:
  total:  67

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

  914 to 1,523 m:  24

  under 914 m:  42 (2000 est.)

Nicaragua:
  total:  171

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

  914 to 1,523 m:  25

  under 914 m:  145 (2000 est.)

Niger:
  total:  18

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

  914 to 1,523 m:  15

  under 914 m:  2 (2000 est.)

Nigeria:
  total:  34

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  2

  914 to 1,523 m:  14

  under 914 m:  18 (2000 est.)

Northern Mariana Islands:
  total:  3

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  1

  under 914 m:  2 (2000 est.)

Norway:
  total:  36

  914 to 1,523 m:  5

  under 914 m:  31 (2000 est.)

Oman:
  total:  137

  over 3,047 m:  2

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  6

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  56

  914 to 1,523 m:  37

  under 914 m:  36 (2000 est.)

Pakistan:
  total:  35

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  7

  914 to 1,523 m:  11

  under 914 m:  17 (2000 est.)

Palau:
  total:  2

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  2 (2000 est.)

Palmyra Atoll:
  total:  1

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Panama:
  total:  65

  914 to 1,523 m:  13

  under 914 m:  52 (2000 est.)

Papua New Guinea:
  total:  472

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  13

  914 to 1,523 m:  57

  under 914 m:  402 (2000 est.)

Paraguay:
  total:  904

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  29

  914 to 1,523 m:  340

  under 914 m:  535 (2000 est.)

Peru:
  total:  187

  over 3,047 m:  1

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  1

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  25

  914 to 1,523 m:  65

  under 914 m:  95 (2000 est.)

Philippines:
  total:  212

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  1

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

  914 to 1,523 m:  81

  under 914 m:  129 (2000 est.)

Poland:
  total:  39

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  1

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  4

  914 to 1,523 m:  13

  under 914 m:  21 (2000 est.)

Portugal:
  total:  26

  914 to 1,523 m:  1

  under 914 m:  25 (2000 est.)

Puerto Rico:
  total:  9

  914 to 1,523 m:  2

  under 914 m:  7 (2000 est.)

Qatar:
  total:  2

  914 to 1,523 m:  1

  under 914 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Romania:
  total:  37

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  2

  914 to 1,523 m:  12

  under 914 m:  23 (2000 est.)

Russia:
  total:  2,272

  over 3,047 m:  28

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  118

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  204

  914 to 1,523 m:  324

  under 914 m:  1,598 (2000 est.)

Rwanda:
  total:  4

  914 to 1,523 m:  1

  under 914 m:  3 (2000 est.)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:
  total:  1

  under 914 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Samoa:
  total:  2

  under 914 m:  2 (2000 est.)

Saudi Arabia:
  total:  136

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  5

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  77

  914 to 1,523 m:  39

  under 914 m:  15 (2000 est.)

Senegal:
  total:  10

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  5

  914 to 1,523 m:  4

  under 914 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Seychelles:
  total:  8

  914 to 1,523 m:  4

  under 914 m:  4 (2000 est.)

Sierra Leone:
  total:  10

  914 to 1,523 m:  7

  under 914 m:  3 (2000 est.)

Slovakia:
  total:  17

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  1

  914 to 1,523 m:  9

  under 914 m:  7 (2000 est.)

Slovenia:
  total:  8

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  2

  914 to 1,523 m:  2

  under 914 m:  4 (2000 est.)

Solomon Islands:
  total:  29

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

  914 to 1,523 m:  10

  under 914 m:  18 (2000 est.)

Somalia:
  total:  57

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  4

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  13

  914 to 1,523 m:  29

  under 914 m:  11 (2000 est.)

South Africa:
  total:  599

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  33

  914 to 1,523 m:  304

  under 914 m:  262 (2000 est.)

Spain:
  total:  35

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

  914 to 1,523 m:  9

  under 914 m:  25 (2000 est.)

Spratly Islands:
  total:  3

  914 to 1,523 m:  1

  under 914 m:  2 (2000 est.)

Sri Lanka:
  total:  2

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

  under 914 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Sudan:
  total:  49

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  15

  914 to 1,523 m:  25

  under 914 m:  9 (2000 est.)

Suriname:
  total:  41

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

  914 to 1,523 m:  5

  under 914 m:  35 (2000 est.)

Svalbard:
  total:  3

  under 914 m:  3 (2000 est.)

Swaziland:
  total:  17

  914 to 1,523 m:  7

  under 914 m:  10 (2000 est.)

Sweden:
  total:  108

  914 to 1,523 m:  5

  under 914 m:  103 (2000 est.)

Switzerland:
  total:  25

  under 914 m:  25 (2000 est.)

Syria:
  total:  76

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  2

  914 to 1,523 m:  11

  under 914 m:  63 (2000 est.)

Tajikistan:
  total:  51

  over 3,047 m:  1

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  2

  914 to 1,523 m:  12

  under 914 m:  36 (2000 est.)

Tanzania:
  total:  115

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  17

  914 to 1,523 m:  63

  under 914 m:  35 (2000 est.)

Thailand:
  total:  51

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

  914 to 1,523 m:  16

  under 914 m:  34 (2000 est.)

Togo:
  total:  7

  914 to 1,523 m:  5

  under 914 m:  2 (2000 est.)

Tonga:
  total:  5

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

  914 to 1,523 m:  2

  under 914 m:  2 (2000 est.)

Trinidad and Tobago:
  total:  3

  914 to 1,523 m:  1

  under 914 m:  2 (2000 est.)

Tromelin Island:
  total:  1

  under 914 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Tunisia:
  total:  17

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  2

  914 to 1,523 m:  8

  under 914 m:  7 (2000 est.)

Turkey:
  total:  35

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

  914 to 1,523 m:  8

  under 914 m:  26 (2000 est.)

Turkmenistan:
  total:  63

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  7

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  5

  914 to 1,523 m:  10

  under 914 m:  41 (2000 est.)

Turks and Caicos Islands:
  total:  4

  914 to 1,523 m:  2

  under 914 m:  2 (2000 est.)

Tuvalu:
  total:  1

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Uganda:
  total:  24

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  1

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  6

  914 to 1,523 m:  9

  under 914 m:  8 (2000 est.)

Ukraine:
  total:  604

  over 3,047 m:  13

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  37

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  52

  914 to 1,523 m:  45

  under 914 m:  457 (2000 est.)

United Arab Emirates:
  total:  18

  over 3,047 m:  1

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  1

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  4

  914 to 1,523 m:  9

  under 914 m:  3 (2000 est.)

United Kingdom:
  total:  140

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

  914 to 1,523 m:  23

  under 914 m:  116 (2000 est.)

United States:
  total:  9,546

  over 3,047 m:  3

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  6

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  164

  914 to 1,523 m:  1,675

  under 914 m:  7,698 (2000 est.)

Uruguay:
  total:  49

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  2

  914 to 1,523 m:  16

  under 914 m:  31 (2000 est.)

Uzbekistan:
  total:  257

  over 3,047 m:  3

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  8

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  11

  914 to 1,523 m:  13

  under 914 m:  222

Vanuatu:
  total:  30

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  2

  914 to 1,523 m:  11

  under 914 m:  17 (2000 est.)

Venezuela:
  total:  247

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  10

  914 to 1,523 m:  97

  under 914 m:  140 (2000 est.)

Vietnam:
  total:  17

  over 3,047 m:  1

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

  914 to 1,523 m:  7

  under 914 m:  8 (2000 est.)

Wallis and Futuna:
  total:  1

  914 to 1,523 m:  1 (2000 est.)

Western Sahara:
  total:  8

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

  914 to 1,523 m:  4

  under 914 m:  3 (2000 est.)

Yemen:
  total:  37

  over 3,047 m:  2

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  9

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  8

  914 to 1,523 m:  13

  under 914 m:  5 (2000 est.)

Yugoslavia:
  total:  28

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  2

  914 to 1,523 m:  12

  under 914 m:  14 (2000 est.)

Zambia:
  total:  99

  2,438 to 3,047 m:  1

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  2

  914 to 1,523 m:  65

  under 914 m:  31 (2000 est.)

Zimbabwe:
  total:  437

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  4

  914 to 1,523 m:  209

  under 914 m:  224 (2000 est.)

Taiwan:
  total:  4

  1,524 to 2,437 m:  1

  under 914 m:  3 (2000 est.)

======================================================================

@Area



Afghanistan:
  total:  647,500 sq km

  land:  647,500 sq km

  water:  0 sq km

Albania:
  total:  28,748 sq km

  land:  27,398 sq km

  water:  1,350 sq km

Algeria:
  total:  2,381,740 sq km

  land:  2,381,740 sq km

  water:  0 sq km

American Samoa:
  total:  199 sq km

  land:  199 sq km

  water:  0 sq km

  note:  includes Rose Island and Swains Island

Andorra:
  total:  468 sq km

  land:  468 sq km

  water:  0 sq km

Angola:
  total:  1,246,700 sq km

  land:  1,246,700 sq km

  water:  0 sq km

Anguilla:
  total:  91 sq km

  land:  91 sq km

  water:  0 sq km

Antarctica:
  total:  14 million sq km

  land:  14 million sq km (280,000 sq km ice-free, 13.72 million sq km
  ice-covered) (est.)

  note:  fifth-largest continent, following Asia, Africa, North
  America, and South America, but larger than Australia and the
  subcontinent of Europe

Antigua and Barbuda:
  total:  442 sq km (Antigua 281 sq km; Barbuda
  161 sq km)

  land:  442 sq km

  water:  0 sq km

  note:  includes Redonda

Arctic Ocean:
  total:  14.056 million sq km

  note:  includes Baffin Bay, Barents Sea, Beaufort Sea, Chukchi Sea,
  East Siberian Sea, Greenland Sea, Hudson Bay, Hudson Strait, Kara
  Sea, Laptev Sea, Northwest Passage, and other tributary water bodies

Argentina:
  total:  2,766,890 sq km

  land:  2,736,690 sq km

  water:  30,200 sq km

Armenia:
  total:  29,800 sq km

  land:  28,400 sq km

  water:  1,400 sq km

Aruba:
  total:  193 sq km

  land:  193 sq km

  water:  0 sq km

Ashmore and Cartier Islands:
  total:  5 sq km

  land:  5 sq km

  water:  0 sq km

  note:  includes Ashmore Reef (West, Middle, and East Islets) and
  Cartier Island

Atlantic Ocean:
  total:  76.762 million sq km

  note:  includes Baltic Sea, Black Sea, Caribbean Sea, Davis Strait,
  Denmark Strait, part of the Drake Passage, Gulf of Mexico,
  Mediterranean Sea, North Sea, Norwegian Sea, almost all of the
  Scotia Sea, and other tributary water bodies

Australia:
  total:  7,686,850 sq km

  land:  7,617,930 sq km

  water:  68,920 sq km

  note:  includes Lord Howe Island and Macquarie Island

Austria:
  total:  83,858 sq km

  land:  82,738 sq km

  water:  1,120 sq km

Azerbaijan:
  total:  86,600 sq km

  land:  86,100 sq km

  water:  500 sq km

  note:  includes the exclave of Naxcivan Autonomous Republic and the
  Nagorno-Karabakh region; the region's autonomy was abolished by
  Azerbaijani Supreme Soviet on 26 November 1991

Bahamas, The:
  total:  13,940 sq km

  land:  10,070 sq km

  water:  3,870 sq km

Bahrain:
  total:  620 sq km

  land:  620 sq km

  water:  0 sq km

Baker Island:
  total:  1.4 sq km

  land:  1.4 sq km

  water:  0 sq km

Bangladesh:
  total:  144,000 sq km

  land:  133,910 sq km

  water:  10,090 sq km

Barbados:
  total:  430 sq km

  land:  430 sq km

  water:  0 sq km

Bassas da India:
  total:  0.2 sq km

  land:  0.2 sq km

  water:  0 sq km

Belarus:
  total:  207,600 sq km

  land:  207,600 sq km

  water:  0 sq km

Belgium:
  total:  30,510 sq km

  land:  30,230 sq km

  water:  280 sq km

Belize:
  total:  22,966 sq km

  land:  22,806 sq km

  water:  160 sq km

Benin:
  total:  112,620 sq km

  land:  110,620 sq km

  water:  2,000 sq km

Bermuda:
  total:  58.8 sq km

  land:  58.8 sq km

  water:  0 sq km

Bhutan:
  total:  47,000 sq km

  land:  47,000 sq km

  water:  0 sq km

Bolivia:
  total:  1,098,580 sq km

  land:  1,084,390 sq km

  water:  14,190 sq km

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  total:  51,129 sq km

  land:  51,129 sq km

  water:  0 sq km

Botswana:
  total:  600,370 sq km

  land:  585,370 sq km

  water:  15,000 sq km

Bouvet Island:
  total:  58.5 sq km

  land:  58.5 sq km

  water:  0 sq km

Brazil:
  total:  8,511,965 sq km

  land:  8,456,510 sq km

  water:  55,455 sq km

  note:  includes Arquipelago de Fernando de Noronha, Atol das Rocas,
  Ilha da Trindade, Ilhas Martin Vaz, and Penedos de Sao Pedro e Sao
  Paulo

British Indian Ocean Territory:
  total:  60 sq km

  land:  60 sq km

  water:  0 sq km

  note:  includes the entire Chagos Archipelago

British Virgin Islands:
  total:  150 sq km

  land:  150 sq km

  water:  0 sq km

  note:  includes the island of Anegada

Brunei:
  total:  5,770 sq km

  land:  5,270 sq km

  water:  500 sq km

Bulgaria:
  total:  110,910 sq km

  land:  110,550 sq km

  water:  360 sq km

Burkina Faso:
  total:  274,200 sq km

  land:  273,800 sq km

  water:  400 sq km

Burma:
  total:  678,500 sq km

  land:  657,740 sq km

  water:  20,760 sq km

Burundi:
  total:  27,830 sq km

  land:  25,650 sq km

  water:  2,180 sq km

Cambodia:
  total:  181,040 sq km

  land:  176,520 sq km

  water:  4,520 sq km

Cameroon:
  total:  475,440 sq km

  land:  469,440 sq km

  water:  6,000 sq km

Canada:
  total:  9,976,140 sq km

  land:  9,220,970 sq km

  water:  755,170 sq km

Cape Verde:
  total:  4,033 sq km

  land:  4,033 sq km

  water:  0 sq km

Cayman Islands:
  total:  259 sq km

  land:  259 sq km

  water:  0 sq km

Central African Republic:
  total:  622,984 sq km

  land:  622,984 sq km

  water:  0 sq km

Chad:
  total:  1.284 million sq km

  land:  1,259,200 sq km

  water:  24,800 sq km

Chile:
  total:  756,950 sq km

  land:  748,800 sq km

  water:  8,150 sq km

  note:  includes Easter Island (Isla de Pascua) and Isla Sala y Gomez

China:
  total:  9,596,960 sq km

  land:  9,326,410 sq km

  water:  270,550 sq km

Christmas Island:
  total:  135 sq km

  land:  135 sq km

  water:  0 sq km

Clipperton Island:
  total:  7 sq km

  land:  7 sq km

  water:  0 sq km

Cocos (Keeling) Islands:
  total:  14 sq km

  land:  14 sq km

  water:  0 sq km

  note:  includes the two main islands of West Island and Home Island

Colombia:
  total:  1,138,910 sq km

  land:  1,038,700 sq km

  water:  100,210 sq km

  note:  includes Isla de Malpelo, Roncador Cay, Serrana Bank, and
  Serranilla Bank

Comoros:
  total:  2,170 sq km

  land:  2,170 sq km

  water:  0 sq km

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  total:  2,345,410 sq km

  land:  2,267,600 sq km

  water:  77,810 sq km

Congo, Republic of the:
  total:  342,000 sq km

  land:  341,500 sq km

  water:  500 sq km

Cook Islands:
  total:  240 sq km

  land:  240 sq km

  water:  0 sq km

Coral Sea Islands:
  total:  less than 3 sq km

  land:  less than 3 sq km

  water:  0 sq km

  note:  includes numerous small islands and reefs scattered over a
  sea area of about 1 million sq km, with the Willis Islets the most
  important

Costa Rica:
  total:  51,100 sq km

  land:  50,660 sq km

  water:  440 sq km

  note:  includes Isla del Coco

Cote d'Ivoire:
  total:  322,460 sq km

  land:  318,000 sq km

  water:  4,460 sq km

Croatia:
  total:  56,542 sq km

  land:  56,414 sq km

  water:  128 sq km

Cuba:
  total:  110,860 sq km

  land:  110,860 sq km

  water:  0 sq km

Cyprus:
  total:  9,250 sq km (of which 3,355 sq km are in the Turkish
  Cypriot area)

  land:  9,240 sq km

  water:  10 sq km

Czech Republic:
  total:  78,866 sq km

  land:  77,276 sq km

  water:  1,590 sq km

Denmark:
  total:  43,094 sq km

  land:  42,394 sq km

  water:  700 sq km

  note:  includes the island of Bornholm in the Baltic Sea and the
  rest of metropolitan Denmark (the Jutland Peninsula, and the major
  islands of Sjaeland and Fyn), but excludes the Faroe Islands and
  Greenland

Djibouti:
  total:  22,000 sq km

  land:  21,980 sq km

  water:  20 sq km

Dominica:
  total:  754 sq km

  land:  754 sq km

  water:  0 sq km

Dominican Republic:
  total:  48,730 sq km

  land:  48,380 sq km

  water:  350 sq km

Ecuador:
  total:  283,560 sq km

  land:  276,840 sq km

  water:  6,720 sq km

  note:  includes Galapagos Islands

Egypt:
  total:  1,001,450 sq km

  land:  995,450 sq km

  water:  6,000 sq km

El Salvador:
  total:  21,040 sq km

  land:  20,720 sq km

  water:  320 sq km

Equatorial Guinea:
  total:  28,051 sq km

  land:  28,051 sq km

  water:  0 sq km

Eritrea:
  total:  121,320 sq km

  land:  121,320 sq km

  water:  0 sq km

Estonia:
  total:  45,226 sq km

  land:  43,211 sq km

  water:  2,015 sq km

  note:  includes 1,520 islands in the Baltic Sea

Ethiopia:
  total:  1,127,127 sq km

  land:  1,119,683 sq km

  water:  7,444 sq km

Europa Island:
  total:  28 sq km

  land:  28 sq km

  water:  0 sq km

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas):
  total:  12,173 sq km

  land:  12,173 sq km

  water:  0 sq km

  note:  includes the two main islands of East and West Falkland and
  about 200 small islands

Faroe Islands:
  total:  1,399 sq km

  land:  1,399 sq km

  water:  0 sq km (some lakes and streams)

Fiji:
  total:  18,270 sq km

  land:  18,270 sq km

  water:  0 sq km

Finland:
  total:  337,030 sq km

  land:  305,470 sq km

  water:  31,560 sq km

France:
  total:  547,030 sq km

  land:  545,630 sq km

  water:  1,400 sq km

  note:  includes only metropolitan France, but excludes the overseas
  administrative divisions

French Guiana:
  total:  91,000 sq km

  land:  89,150 sq km

  water:  1,850 sq km

French Polynesia:
  total:  4,167 sq km (118 islands and atolls)

  land:  3,660 sq km

  water:  507 sq km

French Southern and Antarctic Lands:
  total:  7,781 sq km

  land:  7,781 sq km

  water:  0 sq km

  note:  includes Ile Amsterdam, Ile Saint-Paul, Iles Crozet and Iles
  Kerguelen; excludes "Adelie Land" claim of about 500,000 sq km in
  Antarctica that is not recognized by the US

Gabon:
  total:  267,667 sq km

  land:  257,667 sq km

  water:  10,000 sq km

Gambia, The:
  total:  11,300 sq km

  land:  10,000 sq km

  water:  1,300 sq km

Gaza Strip:
  total:  360 sq km

  land:  360 sq km

  water:  0 sq km

Georgia:
  total:  69,700 sq km

  land:  69,700 sq km

  water:  0 sq km

Germany:
  total:  357,021 sq km

  land:  349,223 sq km

  water:  7,798 sq km

Ghana:
  total:  238,540 sq km

  land:  230,020 sq km

  water:  8,520 sq km

Gibraltar:
  total:  6.5 sq km

  land:  6.5 sq km

  water:  0 sq km

Glorioso Islands:
  total:  5 sq km

  land:  5 sq km

  water:  0 sq km

  note:  includes Ile Glorieuse, Ile du Lys, Verte Rocks, Wreck Rock,
  and South Rock

Greece:
  total:  131,940 sq km

  land:  130,800 sq km

  water:  1,140 sq km

Greenland:
  total:  2,175,600 sq km

  land:  2,175,600 sq km (341,700 sq km ice-free, 1,833,900 sq km
  ice-covered) (est.)

Grenada:
  total:  340 sq km

  land:  340 sq km

  water:  0 sq km

Guadeloupe:
  total:  1,780 sq km

  land:  1,706 sq km

  water:  74 sq km

  note:  Guadeloupe is an archipelago of nine inhabited islands,
  including Basse-Terre, Grande-Terre, Marie-Galante, La Desirade,
  Iles des Saintes (2), Saint-Barthelemy, Iles de la Petite Terre, and
  Saint-Martin (French part of the island of Saint Martin

Guam:
  total:  549 sq km

  land:  549 sq km

  water:  0 sq km

Guatemala:
  total:  108,890 sq km

  land:  108,430 sq km

  water:  460 sq km

Guernsey:
  total:  194 sq km

  land:  194 sq km

  water:  0 sq km

  note:  includes Alderney, Guernsey, Herm, Sark, and some other
  smaller islands

Guinea:
  total:  245,857 sq km

  land:  245,857 sq km

  water:  0 sq km

Guinea-Bissau:
  total:  36,120 sq km

  land:  28,000 sq km

  water:  8,120 sq km

Guyana:
  total:  214,970 sq km

  land:  196,850 sq km

  water:  18,120 sq km

Haiti:
  total:  27,750 sq km

  land:  27,560 sq km

  water:  190 sq km

Heard Island and McDonald Islands:
  total:  412 sq km

  land:  412 sq km

  water:  0 sq km

Holy See (Vatican City):
  total:  0.44 sq km

  land:  0.44 sq km

  water:  0 sq km

Honduras:
  total:  112,090 sq km

  land:  111,890 sq km

  water:  200 sq km

Hong Kong:
  total:  1,092 sq km

  land:  1,042 sq km

  water:  50 sq km

Howland Island:
  total:  1.6 sq km

  land:  1.6 sq km

  water:  0 sq km

Hungary:
  total:  93,030 sq km

  land:  92,340 sq km

  water:  690 sq km

Iceland:
  total:  103,000 sq km

  land:  100,250 sq km

  water:  2,750 sq km

India:
  total:  3,287,590 sq km

  land:  2,973,190 sq km

  water:  314,400 sq km

Indian Ocean:
  total:  68.556 million sq km

  note:  includes Andaman Sea, Arabian Sea, Bay of Bengal, Great
  Australian Bight, Gulf of Aden, Gulf of Oman, Mozambique Channel,
  Persian Gulf, Red Sea, Strait of Malacca, and other tributary water
  bodies

Indonesia:
  total:  1,919,440 sq km

  land:  1,826,440 sq km

  water:  93,000 sq km

Iran:
  total:  1.648 million sq km

  land:  1.636 million sq km

  water:  12,000 sq km

Iraq:
  total:  437,072 sq km

  land:  432,162 sq km

  water:  4,910 sq km

Ireland:
  total:  70,280 sq km

  land:  68,890 sq km

  water:  1,390 sq km

Israel:
  total:  20,770 sq km

  land:  20,330 sq km

  water:  440 sq km

Italy:
  total:  301,230 sq km

  land:  294,020 sq km

  water:  7,210 sq km

  note:  includes Sardinia and Sicily

Jamaica:
  total:  10,990 sq km

  land:  10,830 sq km

  water:  160 sq km

Jan Mayen:
  total:  373 sq km

  land:  373 sq km

  water:  0 sq km

Japan:
  total:  377,835 sq km

  land:  374,744 sq km

  water:  3,091 sq km

  note:  includes Bonin Islands (Ogasawara-gunto), Daito-shoto,
  Minami-jima, Okino-tori-shima, Ryukyu Islands (Nansei-shoto), and
  Volcano Islands (Kazan-retto)

Jarvis Island:
  total:  4.5 sq km

  land:  4.5 sq km

  water:  0 sq km

Jersey:
  total:  116 sq km

  land:  116 sq km

  water:  0 sq km

Johnston Atoll:
  total:  2.8 sq km

  land:  2.8 sq km

  water:  0 sq km

Jordan:
  total:  92,300 sq km

  land:  91,971 sq km

  water:  329 sq km

Juan de Nova Island:
  total:  4.4 sq km

  land:  4.4 sq km

  water:  0 sq km

Kazakhstan:
  total:  2,717,300 sq km

  land:  2,669,800 sq km

  water:  47,500 sq km

Kenya:
  total:  582,650 sq km

  land:  569,250 sq km

  water:  13,400 sq km

Kingman Reef:
  total:  1 sq km

  land:  1 sq km

  water:  0 sq km

Kiribati:
  total:  717 sq km

  land:  717 sq km

  water:  0 sq km

  note:  includes three island groups - Gilbert Islands, Line Islands,
  Phoenix Islands

Korea, North:
  total:  120,540 sq km

  land:  120,410 sq km

  water:  130 sq km

Korea, South:
  total:  98,480 sq km

  land:  98,190 sq km

  water:  290 sq km

Kuwait:
  total:  17,820 sq km

  land:  17,820 sq km

  water:  0 sq km

Kyrgyzstan:
  total:  198,500 sq km

  land:  191,300 sq km

  water:  7,200 sq km

Laos:
  total:  236,800 sq km

  land:  230,800 sq km

  water:  6,000 sq km

Latvia:
  total:  64,589 sq km

  land:  64,589 sq km

  water:  0 sq km

Lebanon:
  total:  10,400 sq km

  land:  10,230 sq km

  water:  170 sq km

Lesotho:
  total:  30,355 sq km

  land:  30,355 sq km

  water:  0 sq km

Liberia:
  total:  111,370 sq km

  land:  96,320 sq km

  water:  15,050 sq km

Libya:
  total:  1,759,540 sq km

  land:  1,759,540 sq km

  water:  0 sq km

Liechtenstein:
  total:  160 sq km

  land:  160 sq km

  water:  0 sq km

Lithuania:
  total:  65,200 sq km

  land:  65,200 sq km

  water:  0 sq km

Luxembourg:
  total:  2,586 sq km

  land:  2,586 sq km

  water:  0 sq km

Macau:
  total:  21 sq km

  land:  21 sq km

  water:  0 sq km

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  total:  25,333 sq km

  land:  24,856 sq km

  water:  477 sq km

Madagascar:
  total:  587,040 sq km

  land:  581,540 sq km

  water:  5,500 sq km

Malawi:
  total:  118,480 sq km

  land:  94,080 sq km

  water:  24,400 sq km

Malaysia:
  total:  329,750 sq km

  land:  328,550 sq km

  water:  1,200 sq km

Maldives:
  total:  300 sq km

  land:  300 sq km

  water:  0 sq km

Mali:
  total:  1.24 million sq km

  land:  1.22 million sq km

  water:  20,000 sq km

Malta:
  total:  316 sq km

  land:  316 sq km

  water:  0 sq km

Man, Isle of:
  total:  572 sq km

  land:  572 sq km

  water:  0 sq km

Marshall Islands:
  total:  181.3 sq km

  land:  181.3 sq km

  water:  0 sq km

  note:  includes the atolls of Bikini, Enewetak, and Kwajalein

Martinique:
  total:  1,100 sq km

  land:  1,060 sq km

  water:  40 sq km

Mauritania:
  total:  1,030,700 sq km

  land:  1,030,400 sq km

  water:  300 sq km

Mauritius:
  total:  1,860 sq km

  land:  1,850 sq km

  water:  10 sq km

  note:  includes Agalega Islands, Cargados Carajos Shoals (Saint
  Brandon), and Rodrigues

Mayotte:
  total:  374 sq km

  land:  374 sq km

  water:  0 sq km

Mexico:
  total:  1,972,550 sq km

  land:  1,923,040 sq km

  water:  49,510 sq km

Micronesia, Federated States of:
  total:  702 sq km

  land:  702 sq km

  water:  0 sq km

  note:  includes Pohnpei (Ponape), Truk (Chuuk) Islands, Yap Islands,
  and Kosrae

Midway Islands:
  total:  6.2 sq km

  land:  6.2 sq km

  water:  0 sq km

  note:  includes Eastern Island, Sand Island, and Spit Island

Moldova:
  total:  33,843 sq km

  land:  33,371 sq km

  water:  472 sq km

Monaco:
  total:  1.95 sq km

  land:  1.95 sq km

  water:  0 sq km

Mongolia:
  total:  1.565 million sq km

  land:  1.565 million sq km

  water:  0 sq km

Montserrat:
  total:  100 sq km

  land:  100 sq km

  water:  0 sq km

Morocco:
  total:  446,550 sq km

  land:  446,300 sq km

  water:  250 sq km

Mozambique:
  total:  801,590 sq km

  land:  784,090 sq km

  water:  17,500 sq km

Namibia:
  total:  825,418 sq km

  land:  825,418 sq km

  water:  0 sq km

Nauru:
  total:  21 sq km

  land:  21 sq km

  water:  0 sq km

Navassa Island:
  total:  5.2 sq km

  land:  5.2 sq km

  water:  0 sq km

Nepal:
  total:  140,800 sq km

  land:  136,800 sq km

  water:  4,000 sq km

Netherlands:
  total:  41,526 sq km

  land:  33,883 sq km

  water:  7,643 sq km

Netherlands Antilles:
  total:  960 sq km

  land:  960 sq km

  water:  0 sq km

  note:  includes Bonaire, Curacao, Saba, Sint Eustatius, and Sint
  Maarten (Dutch part of the island of Saint Martin)

New Caledonia:
  total:  19,060 sq km

  land:  18,575 sq km

  water:  485 sq km

New Zealand:
  total:  268,680 sq km

  land:  268,670 sq km

  water:  10 sq km

  note:  includes Antipodes Islands, Auckland Islands, Bounty Islands,
  Campbell Island, Chatham Islands, and Kermadec Islands

Nicaragua:
  total:  129,494 sq km

  land:  120,254 sq km

  water:  9,240 sq km

Niger:
  total:  1.267 million sq km

  land:  1,266,700 sq km

  water:  300 sq km

Nigeria:
  total:  923,768 sq km

  land:  910,768 sq km

  water:  13,000 sq km

Niue:
  total:  260 sq km

  land:  260 sq km

  water:  0 sq km

Norfolk Island:
  total:  34.6 sq km

  land:  34.6 sq km

  water:  0 sq km

Northern Mariana Islands:
  total:  477 sq km

  land:  477 sq km

  water:  0 sq km

  note:  includes 14 islands including Saipan, Rota, and Tinian

Norway:
  total:  324,220 sq km

  land:  307,860 sq km

  water:  16,360 sq km

Oman:
  total:  212,460 sq km

  land:  212,460 sq km

  water:  0 sq km

Pacific Ocean:
  total:  155.557 million sq km

  note:  includes Bali Sea, Bering Sea, Bering Strait, Coral Sea, East
  China Sea, Flores Sea, Gulf of Alaska, Gulf of Tonkin, Java Sea,
  Philippine Sea, Savu Sea, Sea of Japan, Sea of Okhotsk, South China
  Sea, Tasman Sea, Timor Sea, and other tributary water bodies

Pakistan:
  total:  803,940 sq km

  land:  778,720 sq km

  water:  25,220 sq km

Palau:
  total:  458 sq km

  land:  458 sq km

  water:  0 sq km

Palmyra Atoll:
  total:  11.9 sq km

  land:  11.9 sq km

  water:  0 sq km

Panama:
  total:  78,200 sq km

  land:  75,990 sq km

  water:  2,210 sq km

Papua New Guinea:
  total:  462,840 sq km

  land:  452,860 sq km

  water:  9,980 sq km

Paracel Islands:
  total:  NA sq km

  land:  NA sq km

  water:  0 sq km

Paraguay:
  total:  406,750 sq km

  land:  397,300 sq km

  water:  9,450 sq km

Peru:
  total:  1,285,220 sq km

  land:  1.28 million sq km

  water:  5,220 sq km

Philippines:
  total:  300,000 sq km

  land:  298,170 sq km

  water:  1,830 sq km

Pitcairn Islands:
  total:  47 sq km

  land:  47 sq km

  water:  0 sq km

Poland:
  total:  312,685 sq km

  land:  304,465 sq km

  water:  8,220 sq km

Portugal:
  total:  92,391 sq km

  land:  91,951 sq km

  water:  440 sq km

  note:  includes Azores and Madeira Islands

Puerto Rico:
  total:  9,104 sq km

  land:  8,959 sq km

  water:  145 sq km

Qatar:
  total:  11,437 sq km

  land:  11,437 sq km

  water:  0 sq km

Reunion:
  total:  2,512 sq km

  land:  2,502 sq km

  water:  10 sq km

Romania:
  total:  237,500 sq km

  land:  230,340 sq km

  water:  7,160 sq km

Russia:
  total:  17,075,200 sq km

  land:  16,995,800 sq km

  water:  79,400 sq km

Rwanda:
  total:  26,338 sq km

  land:  24,948 sq km

  water:  1,390 sq km

Saint Helena:
  total:  410 sq km

  land:  410 sq km

  water:  0 sq km

  note:  includes St. Helena Island, Ascension, and the island group
  of Tristan da Cunha, which consists of Tristan da Cunha Island,
  Gough Island, Inaccessible Island, and the three Nightingale Islands

Saint Kitts and Nevis:
  total:  261 sq km (Saint Kitts 168 sq km;
  Nevis 93 sq km)

  land:  261 sq km

  water:  0 sq km

Saint Lucia:
  total:  620 sq km

  land:  610 sq km

  water:  10 sq km

Saint Pierre and Miquelon:
  total:  242 sq km

  land:  242 sq km

  water:  0 sq km

  note:  includes eight small islands in the Saint Pierre and the
  Miquelon groups

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:
  total:  389 sq km (Saint Vincent
  344 sq km)

  land:  389 sq km

  water:  0 sq km

Samoa:
  total:  2,860 sq km

  land:  2,850 sq km

  water:  10 sq km

San Marino:
  total:  61.2 sq km

  land:  61.2 sq km

  water:  0 sq km

Sao Tome and Principe:
  total:  1,001 sq km

  land:  1,001 sq km

  water:  0 sq km

Saudi Arabia:
  total:  1,960,582 sq km

  land:  1,960,582 sq km

  water:  0 sq km

Senegal:
  total:  196,190 sq km

  land:  192,000 sq km

  water:  4,190 sq km

Seychelles:
  total:  455 sq km

  land:  455 sq km

  water:  0 sq km

Sierra Leone:
  total:  71,740 sq km

  land:  71,620 sq km

  water:  120 sq km

Singapore:
  total:  647.5 sq km

  land:  637.5 sq km

  water:  10 sq km

Slovakia:
  total:  48,845 sq km

  land:  48,800 sq km

  water:  45 sq km

Slovenia:
  total:  20,253 sq km

  land:  20,253 sq km

  water:  0 sq km

Solomon Islands:
  total:  28,450 sq km

  land:  27,540 sq km

  water:  910 sq km

Somalia:
  total:  637,657 sq km

  land:  627,337 sq km

  water:  10,320 sq km

South Africa:
  total:  1,219,912 sq km

  land:  1,219,912 sq km

  water:  0 sq km

  note:  includes Prince Edward Islands (Marion Island and Prince
  Edward Island)

South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands:
  total:  3,903 sq km

  land:  3,903 sq km

  water:  0 sq km

  note:  includes Shag Rocks, Black Rock, Clerke Rocks, South Georgia
  Island, Bird Island, and the South Sandwich Islands, which consist
  of some nine islands

Southern Ocean:
  total:  20.327 million sq km

  note:  includes Amundsen Sea, Bellingshausen Sea, part of the Drake
  Passage, Ross Sea, a small part of the Scotia Sea, Weddell Sea, and
  other tributary water bodies

Spain:
  total:  504,782 sq km

  land:  499,542 sq km

  water:  5,240 sq km

  note:  includes Balearic Islands, Canary Islands, and five places of
  sovereignty (plazas de soberania) on and off the coast of Morocco -
  Ceuta, Melilla, Islas Chafarinas, Penon de Alhucemas, and Penon de
  Velez de la Gomera

Spratly Islands:
  total:  less than 5 sq km

  land:  less than 5 sq km

  water:  0 sq km

  note:  includes 100 or so islets, coral reefs, and sea mounts
  scattered over an area of nearly 410,000 sq km of the central South
  China Sea

Sri Lanka:
  total:  65,610 sq km

  land:  64,740 sq km

  water:  870 sq km

Sudan:
  total:  2,505,810 sq km

  land:  2.376 million sq km

  water:  129,810 sq km

Suriname:
  total:  163,270 sq km

  land:  161,470 sq km

  water:  1,800 sq km

Svalbard:
  total:  62,049 sq km

  land:  62,049 sq km

  water:  0 sq km

  note:  includes Spitsbergen and Bjornoya (Bear Island)

Swaziland:
  total:  17,363 sq km

  land:  17,203 sq km

  water:  160 sq km

Sweden:
  total:  449,964 sq km

  land:  410,934 sq km

  water:  39,030 sq km

Switzerland:
  total:  41,290 sq km

  land:  39,770 sq km

  water:  1,520 sq km

Syria:
  total:  185,180 sq km

  land:  184,050 sq km

  water:  1,130 sq km

  note:  includes 1,295 sq km of Israeli-occupied territory

Tajikistan:
  total:  143,100 sq km

  land:  142,700 sq km

  water:  400 sq km

Tanzania:
  total:  945,087 sq km

  land:  886,037 sq km

  water:  59,050 sq km

  note:  includes the islands of Mafia, Pemba, and Zanzibar

Thailand:
  total:  514,000 sq km

  land:  511,770 sq km

  water:  2,230 sq km

Togo:
  total:  56,785 sq km

  land:  54,385 sq km

  water:  2,400 sq km

Tokelau:
  total:  10 sq km

  land:  10 sq km

  water:  0 sq km

Tonga:
  total:  748 sq km

  land:  718 sq km

  water:  30 sq km

Trinidad and Tobago:
  total:  5,128 sq km

  land:  5,128 sq km

  water:  0 sq km

Tromelin Island:
  total:  1 sq km

  land:  1 sq km

  water:  0 sq km

Tunisia:
  total:  163,610 sq km

  land:  155,360 sq km

  water:  8,250 sq km

Turkey:
  total:  780,580 sq km

  land:  770,760 sq km

  water:  9,820 sq km

Turkmenistan:
  total:  488,100 sq km

  land:  488,100 sq km

  water:  0 sq km

Turks and Caicos Islands:
  total:  430 sq km

  land:  430 sq km

  water:  0 sq km

Tuvalu:
  total:  26 sq km

  land:  26 sq km

  water:  0 sq km

Uganda:
  total:  236,040 sq km

  land:  199,710 sq km

  water:  36,330 sq km

Ukraine:
  total:  603,700 sq km

  land:  603,700 sq km

  water:  0 sq km

United Arab Emirates:
  total:  82,880 sq km

  land:  82,880 sq km

  water:  0 sq km

United Kingdom:
  total:  244,820 sq km

  land:  241,590 sq km

  water:  3,230 sq km

  note:  includes Rockall and Shetland Islands

United States:
  total:  9,629,091 sq km

  land:  9,158,960 sq km

  water:  470,131 sq km

  note:  includes only the 50 states and District of Columbia

Uruguay:
  total:  176,220 sq km

  land:  173,620 sq km

  water:  2,600 sq km

Uzbekistan:
  total:  447,400 sq km

  land:  425,400 sq km

  water:  22,000 sq km

Vanuatu:
  total:  12,200 sq km

  land:  12,200 sq km

  water:  0 sq km

  note:  includes more than 80 islands

Venezuela:
  total:  912,050 sq km

  land:  882,050 sq km

  water:  30,000 sq km

Vietnam:
  total:  329,560 sq km

  land:  325,360 sq km

  water:  4,200 sq km

Virgin Islands:
  total:  352 sq km

  land:  349 sq km

  water:  3 sq km

Wake Island:
  total:  6.5 sq km

  land:  6.5 sq km

  water:  0 sq km

Wallis and Futuna:
  total:  274 sq km

  land:  274 sq km

  water:  0 sq km

  note:  includes Ile Uvea (Wallis Island), Ile Futuna (Futuna
  Island), Ile Alofi, and 20 islets

West Bank:
  total:  5,860 sq km

  land:  5,640 sq km

  water:  220 sq km

  note:  includes West Bank, Latrun Salient, and the northwest quarter
  of the Dead Sea, but excludes Mt. Scopus; East Jerusalem and
  Jerusalem No Man's Land are also included only as a means of
  depicting the entire area occupied by Israel in 1967

Western Sahara:
  total:  266,000 sq km

  land:  266,000 sq km

  water:  0 sq km

World:
  total:  510.072 million sq km

  land:  148.94 million sq km

  water:  361.132 million sq km

  note:  70.8% of the world's surface is water, 29.2% is land

Yemen:
  total:  527,970 sq km

  land:  527,970 sq km

  water:  0 sq km

  note:  includes Perim, Socotra, the former Yemen Arab Republic (YAR
  or North Yemen), and the former People's Democratic Republic of
  Yemen (PDRY or South Yemen)

Yugoslavia:
  total:  102,350 sq km

  land:  102,136 sq km

  water:  214 sq km

Zambia:
  total:  752,614 sq km

  land:  740,724 sq km

  water:  11,890 sq km

Zimbabwe:
  total:  390,580 sq km

  land:  386,670 sq km

  water:  3,910 sq km

Taiwan:
  total:  35,980 sq km

  land:  32,260 sq km

  water:  3,720 sq km

  note:  includes the Pescadores, Matsu, and Quemoy

======================================================================

@Area - comparative



Afghanistan:
  slightly smaller than Texas

Albania:
  slightly smaller than Maryland

Algeria:
  slightly less than 3.5 times the size of Texas

American Samoa:
  slightly larger than Washington, DC

Andorra:
  2.5 times the size of Washington, DC

Angola:
  slightly less than twice the size of Texas

Anguilla:
  about half the size of Washington, DC

Antarctica:
  slightly less than 1.5 times the size of the US

Antigua and Barbuda:
  2.5 times the size of Washington, DC

Arctic Ocean:
  slightly less than 1.5 times the size of the US

Argentina:
  slightly less than three-tenths the size of the US

Armenia:
  slightly smaller than Maryland

Aruba:
  slightly larger than Washington, DC

Ashmore and Cartier Islands:
  about eight times the size of The Mall
  in Washington, DC

Atlantic Ocean:
  slightly less than 6.5 times the size of the US

Australia:
  slightly smaller than the contiguous 48 states of the US

Austria:
  slightly smaller than Maine

Azerbaijan:
  slightly smaller than Maine

Bahamas, The:
  slightly smaller than Connecticut

Bahrain:
  3.5 times the size of Washington, DC

Baker Island:
  about 2.5 times the size of The Mall in Washington, DC

Bangladesh:
  slightly smaller than Wisconsin

Barbados:
  2.5 times the size of Washington, DC

Bassas da India:
  about one-third the size of The Mall in Washington,
  DC

Belarus:
  slightly smaller than Kansas

Belgium:
  about the size of Maryland

Belize:
  slightly smaller than Massachusetts

Benin:
  slightly smaller than Pennsylvania

Bermuda:
  about 0.3 times the size of Washington, DC

Bhutan:
  about half the size of Indiana

Bolivia:
  slightly less than three times the size of Montana

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  slightly smaller than West Virginia

Botswana:
  slightly smaller than Texas

Bouvet Island:
  about 0.3 times the size of Washington, DC

Brazil:
  slightly smaller than the US

British Indian Ocean Territory:
  about 0.3 times the size of
  Washington, DC

British Virgin Islands:
  about 0.9 times the size of Washington, DC

Brunei:
  slightly smaller than Delaware

Bulgaria:
  slightly larger than Tennessee

Burkina Faso:
  slightly larger than Colorado

Burma:
  slightly smaller than Texas

Burundi:
  slightly smaller than Maryland

Cambodia:
  slightly smaller than Oklahoma

Cameroon:
  slightly larger than California

Canada:
  slightly larger than the US

Cape Verde:
  slightly larger than Rhode Island

Cayman Islands:
  1.5 times the size of Washington, DC

Central African Republic:
  slightly smaller than Texas

Chad:
  slightly more than three times the size of California

Chile:
  slightly smaller than twice the size of Montana

China:
  slightly smaller than the US

Christmas Island:
  about 0.7 times the size of Washington, DC

Clipperton Island:
  about 12 times the size of The Mall in
  Washington, DC

Cocos (Keeling) Islands:
  about 24 times the size of The Mall in
  Washington, DC

Colombia:
  slightly less than three times the size of Montana

Comoros:
  slightly more than 12 times the size of Washington, DC

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  slightly less than one-fourth the
  size of the US

Congo, Republic of the:
  slightly smaller than Montana

Cook Islands:
  1.3 times the size of Washington, DC

Coral Sea Islands:
  NA

Costa Rica:
  slightly smaller than West Virginia

Cote d'Ivoire:
  slightly larger than New Mexico

Croatia:
  slightly smaller than West Virginia

Cuba:
  slightly smaller than Pennsylvania

Cyprus:
  about 0.6 times the size of Connecticut

Czech Republic:
  slightly smaller than South Carolina

Denmark:
  slightly less than twice the size of Massachusetts

Djibouti:
  slightly smaller than Massachusetts

Dominica:
  slightly more than four times the size of Washington, DC

Dominican Republic:
  slightly more than twice the size of New
  Hampshire

Ecuador:
  slightly smaller than Nevada

Egypt:
  slightly more than three times the size of New Mexico

El Salvador:
  slightly smaller than Massachusetts

Equatorial Guinea:
  slightly smaller than Maryland

Eritrea:
  slightly larger than Pennsylvania

Estonia:
  slightly smaller than New Hampshire and Vermont combined

Ethiopia:
  slightly less than twice the size of Texas

Europa Island:
  about 0.16 times the size of Washington, DC

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas):
  slightly smaller than Connecticut

Faroe Islands:
  eight times the size of Washington, DC

Fiji:
  slightly smaller than New Jersey

Finland:
  slightly smaller than Montana

France:
  slightly less than twice the size of Colorado

French Guiana:
  slightly smaller than Indiana

French Polynesia:
  slightly less than one-third the size of
  Connecticut

French Southern and Antarctic Lands:
  slightly less than 1.3 times
  the size of Delaware

Gabon:
  slightly smaller than Colorado

Gambia, The:
  slightly less than twice the size of Delaware

Gaza Strip:
  slightly more than twice the size of Washington, DC

Georgia:
  slightly smaller than South Carolina

Germany:
  slightly smaller than Montana

Ghana:
  slightly smaller than Oregon

Gibraltar:
  about 11 times the size of The Mall in Washington, DC

Glorioso Islands:
  about eight times the size of The Mall in
  Washington, DC

Greece:
  slightly smaller than Alabama

Greenland:
  slightly more than three times the size of Texas

Grenada:
  twice the size of Washington, DC

Guadeloupe:
  10 times the size of Washington, DC

Guam:
  three times the size of Washington, DC

Guatemala:
  slightly smaller than Tennessee

Guernsey:
  slightly larger than Washington, DC

Guinea:
  slightly smaller than Oregon

Guinea-Bissau:
  slightly less than three times the size of Connecticut

Guyana:
  slightly smaller than Idaho

Haiti:
  slightly smaller than Maryland

Heard Island and McDonald Islands:
  slightly more than two times the
  size of Washington, DC

Holy See (Vatican City):
  about 0.7 times the size of The Mall in
  Washington, DC

Honduras:
  slightly larger than Tennessee

Hong Kong:
  six times the size of Washington, DC

Howland Island:
  about three times the size of The Mall in
  Washington, DC

Hungary:
  slightly smaller than Indiana

Iceland:
  slightly smaller than Kentucky

India:
  slightly more than one-third the size of the US

Indian Ocean:
  about 5.5 times the size of the US

Indonesia:
  slightly less than three times the size of Texas

Iran:
  slightly larger than Alaska

Iraq:
  slightly more than twice the size of Idaho

Ireland:
  slightly larger than West Virginia

Israel:
  slightly smaller than New Jersey

Italy:
  slightly larger than Arizona

Jamaica:
  slightly smaller than Connecticut

Jan Mayen:
  slightly more than twice the size of Washington, DC

Japan:
  slightly smaller than California

Jarvis Island:
  about eight times the size of The Mall in Washington,
  DC

Jersey:
  about 0.7 times the size of Washington, DC

Johnston Atoll:
  about 4.7 times the size of The Mall in Washington,
  DC

Jordan:
  slightly smaller than Indiana

Juan de Nova Island:
  about seven times the size of The Mall in
  Washington, DC

Kazakhstan:
  slightly less than four times the size of Texas

Kenya:
  slightly more than twice the size of Nevada

Kingman Reef:
  about 1.7 times the size of The Mall in Washington, DC

Kiribati:
  four times the size of Washington, DC

Korea, North:
  slightly smaller than Mississippi

Korea, South:
  slightly larger than Indiana

Kuwait:
  slightly smaller than New Jersey

Kyrgyzstan:
  slightly smaller than South Dakota

Laos:
  slightly larger than Utah

Latvia:
  slightly larger than West Virginia

Lebanon:
  about 0.7 times the size of Connecticut

Lesotho:
  slightly smaller than Maryland

Liberia:
  slightly larger than Tennessee

Libya:
  slightly larger than Alaska

Liechtenstein:
  about 0.9 times the size of Washington, DC

Lithuania:
  slightly larger than West Virginia

Luxembourg:
  slightly smaller than Rhode Island

Macau:
  about 0.1 times the size of Washington, DC

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  slightly larger than
  Vermont

Madagascar:
  slightly less than twice the size of Arizona

Malawi:
  slightly smaller than Pennsylvania

Malaysia:
  slightly larger than New Mexico

Maldives:
  about 1.7 times the size of Washington, DC

Mali:
  slightly less than twice the size of Texas

Malta:
  slightly less than twice the size of Washington, DC

Man, Isle of:
  slightly more than three times the size of Washington,
  DC

Marshall Islands:
  about the size of Washington, DC

Martinique:
  slightly more than six times the size of Washington, DC

Mauritania:
  slightly larger than three times the size of New Mexico

Mauritius:
  almost 11 times the size of Washington, DC

Mayotte:
  slightly more than twice the size of Washington, DC

Mexico:
  slightly less than three times the size of Texas

Micronesia, Federated States of:
  four times the size of Washington,
  DC

Midway Islands:
  about nine times the size of The Mall in Washington,
  DC

Moldova:
  slightly larger than Maryland

Monaco:
  about three times the size of The Mall in Washington, DC

Mongolia:
  slightly smaller than Alaska

Montserrat:
  about 0.6 times the size of Washington, DC

Morocco:
  slightly larger than California

Mozambique:
  slightly less than twice the size of California

Namibia:
  slightly more than half the size of Alaska

Nauru:
  about 0.1 times the size of Washington, DC

Navassa Island:
  about nine times the size of The Mall in Washington,
  DC

Nepal:
  slightly larger than Arkansas

Netherlands:
  slightly less than twice the size of New Jersey

Netherlands Antilles:
  more than five times the size of Washington, DC

New Caledonia:
  slightly smaller than New Jersey

New Zealand:
  about the size of Colorado

Nicaragua:
  slightly smaller than the state of New York

Niger:
  slightly less than twice the size of Texas

Nigeria:
  slightly more than twice the size of California

Niue:
  1.5 times the size of Washington, DC

Norfolk Island:
  about 0.2 times the size of Washington, DC

Northern Mariana Islands:
  2.5 times the size of Washington, DC

Norway:
  slightly larger than New Mexico

Oman:
  slightly smaller than Kansas

Pacific Ocean:
  about 15 times the size of the US; covers about 28%
  of the global surface; larger than the total land area of the world

Pakistan:
  slightly less than twice the size of California

Palau:
  slightly more than 2.5 times the size of Washington, DC

Palmyra Atoll:
  about 20 times the size of The Mall in Washington, DC

Panama:
  slightly smaller than South Carolina

Papua New Guinea:
  slightly larger than California

Paracel Islands:
  NA

Paraguay:
  slightly smaller than California

Peru:
  slightly smaller than Alaska

Philippines:
  slightly larger than Arizona

Pitcairn Islands:
  about 0.3 times the size of Washington, DC

Poland:
  slightly smaller than New Mexico

Portugal:
  slightly smaller than Indiana

Puerto Rico:
  slightly less than three times the size of Rhode Island

Qatar:
  slightly smaller than Connecticut

Reunion:
  slightly smaller than Rhode Island

Romania:
  slightly smaller than Oregon

Russia:
  slightly less than 1.8 times the size of the US

Rwanda:
  slightly smaller than Maryland

Saint Helena:
  slightly more than two times the size of Washington, DC

Saint Kitts and Nevis:
  1.5 times the size of Washington, DC

Saint Lucia:
  3.5 times the size of Washington, DC

Saint Pierre and Miquelon:
  1.5 times the size of Washington, DC

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:
  twice the size of Washington, DC

Samoa:
  slightly smaller than Rhode Island

San Marino:
  about 0.3 times the size of Washington, DC

Sao Tome and Principe:
  more than five times the size of Washington,
  DC

Saudi Arabia:
  slightly more than one-fifth the size of the US

Senegal:
  slightly smaller than South Dakota

Seychelles:
  2.5 times the size of Washington, DC

Sierra Leone:
  slightly smaller than South Carolina

Singapore:
  slightly more than 3.5 times the size of Washington, DC

Slovakia:
  about twice the size of New Hampshire

Slovenia:
  slightly smaller than New Jersey

Solomon Islands:
  slightly smaller than Maryland

Somalia:
  slightly smaller than Texas

South Africa:
  slightly less than twice the size of Texas

South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands:
  slightly larger than
  Rhode Island

Southern Ocean:
  slightly more than twice the size of the US

Spain:
  slightly more than twice the size of Oregon

Spratly Islands:
  NA

Sri Lanka:
  slightly larger than West Virginia

Sudan:
  slightly more than one-quarter the size of the US

Suriname:
  slightly larger than Georgia

Svalbard:
  slightly smaller than West Virginia

Swaziland:
  slightly smaller than New Jersey

Sweden:
  slightly larger than California

Switzerland:
  slightly less than twice the size of New Jersey

Syria:
  slightly larger than North Dakota

Tajikistan:
  slightly smaller than Wisconsin

Tanzania:
  slightly larger than twice the size of California

Thailand:
  slightly more than twice the size of Wyoming

Togo:
  slightly smaller than West Virginia

Tokelau:
  about 17 times the size of The Mall in Washington, DC

Tonga:
  four times the size of Washington, DC

Trinidad and Tobago:
  slightly smaller than Delaware

Tromelin Island:
  about 1.7 times the size of The Mall in Washington,
  DC

Tunisia:
  slightly larger than Georgia

Turkey:
  slightly larger than Texas

Turkmenistan:
  slightly larger than California

Turks and Caicos Islands:
  2.5 times the size of Washington, DC

Tuvalu:
  0.1 times the size of Washington, DC

Uganda:
  slightly smaller than Oregon

Ukraine:
  slightly smaller than Texas

United Arab Emirates:
  slightly smaller than Maine

United Kingdom:
  slightly smaller than Oregon

United States:
  about one-half the size of Russia; about three-tenths
  the size of Africa; about one-half the size of South America (or
  slightly larger than Brazil); slightly larger than China; about two
  and one-half times the size of Western Europe

Uruguay:
  slightly smaller than the state of Washington

Uzbekistan:
  slightly larger than California

Vanuatu:
  slightly larger than Connecticut

Venezuela:
  slightly more than twice the size of California

Vietnam:
  slightly larger than New Mexico

Virgin Islands:
  twice the size of Washington, DC

Wake Island:
  about 11 times the size of The Mall in Washington, DC

Wallis and Futuna:
  1.5 times the size of Washington, DC

West Bank:
  slightly smaller than Delaware

Western Sahara:
  about the size of Colorado

World:
  land area about 16 times the size of the US

Yemen:
  slightly larger than twice the size of Wyoming

Yugoslavia:
  slightly smaller than Kentucky

Zambia:
  slightly larger than Texas

Zimbabwe:
  slightly larger than Montana

Taiwan:
  slightly smaller than Maryland and Delaware combined

======================================================================

@Background



Afghanistan:
  Afghanistan was invaded and occupied by the Soviet
  Union in 1979. The USSR was forced to withdraw 10 years later by
  anti-communist mujahidin forces supplied and trained by the US,
  Saudi Arabia, Pakistan, and others. Fighting subsequently continued
  among the various mujahidin factions, but the fundamentalist Islamic
  Taliban movement has been able to seize most of the country. In
  addition to the continuing civil strife, the country suffers from
  enormous poverty, a crumbling infrastructure, and widespread land
  mines.

Albania:
  In 1990 Albania ended 44 years of xenophobic communist rule
  and established a multiparty democracy. The transition has proven
  difficult as corrupt governments have tried to deal with high
  unemployment, a dilapidated infrastructure, widespread gangsterism,
  and disruptive political opponents. International observers judged
  local elections in 2000 to be acceptable and a step toward
  democratic development, but serious deficiencies remain to be
  corrected before the the 2001 parliamentary elections.

Algeria:
  After a century of rule by France, Algeria became
  independent in 1962. The surprising first round success of the
  fundamentalist FIS (Islamic Salvation Front) party in December 1991
  balloting caused the army to intervene, crack down on the FIS, and
  postpone the subsequent elections. The FIS response has resulted in
  a continuous low-grade civil conflict with the secular state
  apparatus, which nonetheless has allowed elections featuring
  pro-government and moderate religious-based parties. FIS's armed
  wing, the Islamic Salvation Army, disbanded itself in January 2000
  and many armed militants surrendered under an amnesty program
  designed to promote national reconciliation. Nevertheless, residual
  fighting continues. Other concerns include large-scale unemployment
  and the need to diversify the petroleum-based economy.

American Samoa:
  Settled as early as 1000 B. C., Samoa was
  "discovered" by European explorers in the 18th century.
  International rivalries in the latter half of the 19th century were
  settled by an 1899 treaty in which Germany and the US divided the
  Samoan archipelago. The US formally occupied its portion - a smaller
  group of eastern islands with the excellent harbor of Pago Pago -
  the following year.

Andorra:
  Long isolated and impoverished, mountainous Andorra has
  achieved considerable prosperity since World War II through its
  tourist industry. Many immigrants (legal and illegal) are attracted
  to the thriving economy with its lack of income taxes.

Angola:
  Civil war has been the norm in Angola since independence
  from Portugal in 1975. A 1994 peace accord between the government
  and the National Union for the Total Independence of Angola (UNITA)
  provided for the integration of former UNITA insurgents into the
  government and armed forces. A national unity government was
  installed in April of 1997, but serious fighting resumed in late
  1998, rendering hundreds of thousands of people homeless. Up to 1.5
  million lives may have been lost in fighting over the past quarter
  century.

Anguilla:
  Colonized by English settlers from Saint Kitts in 1650,
  Anguilla was administered by Great Britain until the early 19th
  century, when the island - against the wishes of the inhabitants -
  was incorporated into a single British dependency along with Saint
  Kitts and Nevis. Several attempts at separation failed. In 1971, two
  years after a revolt, Anguilla was finally allowed to secede; this
  arrangement was formally recognized in 1980 with Anguilla becoming a
  separate British dependency.

Antarctica:
  Speculation over the existence of a "southern land" was
  not confirmed until the early 1820s when British and American
  commercial operators and British and Russian national expeditions
  began exploring the Peninsula region and areas south of the
  Antarctic Circle. Not until 1838 was it established that Antarctica
  was indeed a continent and not just a group of islands. Various
  "firsts" were achieved in the early 20th century, including: 1902,
  first balloon flight (by British explorer Robert Falcon SCOTT);
  1912, first to the South Pole (five Norwegian explorers under Roald
  AMUNDSEN); 1928, first fixed-wing aircraft flight (by Australian
  adventurer/explorer Sir Hubert WILKINS); 1929, first flight over the
  South Pole (by Americans Richard BYRD and Bernt BALCHEN); and 1935,
  first transantarctic flight (American Lincoln ELLSWORTH). Following
  World War II, there was an upsurge in scientific research on the
  continent. A number of countries have set up year-round research
  stations on Antarctica. Seven have made territorial claims, but no
  other country recognizes these claims. In order to form a legal
  framework for the activities of nations on the continent, an
  Antarctic Treaty was negotiated that neither denies nor gives
  recognition to existing territorial claims; signed in 1959, it
  entered into force in 1961.

Antigua and Barbuda:
  The islands of Antigua and Barbuda became an
  independent state within the British Commonwealth of Nations in
  1981. Some 3,000 refugees fleeing a volcanic eruption on nearby
  Montserrat have settled in Antigua and Barbuda since 1995.

Arctic Ocean:
  The Arctic Ocean is the smallest of the world's five
  oceans (after the Pacific Ocean, Atlantic Ocean, Indian Ocean, and
  the recently delimited Southern Ocean). The Northwest Passage (US
  and Canada) and Northern Sea Route (Norway and Russia) are two
  important seasonal waterways. A sparse network of air, ocean, river,
  and land routes circumscribes the Arctic Ocean.

Argentina:
  Following independence from Spain in 1816, Argentina
  experienced periods of internal political conflict between
  conservatives and liberals and between civilian and military
  factions. After World War II, a long period of Peronist dictatorship
  was followed by a military junta that took power in 1976. Democracy
  returned in 1983, and numerous elections since then have underscored
  Argentina's progress in democratic consolidation.

Armenia:
  An Orthodox Christian country, Armenia was incorporated
  into Russia in 1828 and the USSR in 1920. Armenian leaders remain
  preoccupied by the long conflict with Azerbaijan over
  Nagorno-Karabakh, a primarily Armenian-populated exclave, assigned
  to Soviet Azerbaijan in the 1920s by Moscow. Armenia and Azerbaijan
  began fighting over the exclave in 1988; the struggle escalated
  after both countries attained independence from the Soviet Union in
  1991. By May 1994, when a cease-fire took hold, Armenian forces held
  not only Nagorno-Karabakh but also a significant portion of
  Azerbaijan proper. The economies of both sides have been hurt by
  their inability to make substantial progress toward a peaceful
  resolution.

Aruba:
  Discovered and claimed for Spain in 1499, Aruba was acquired
  by the Dutch in 1636. The island's economy has been dominated by
  three main industries. A 19th century gold rush was followed by
  prosperity brought on by the opening in 1924 of an oil refinery. The
  last decades of the 20th century saw a boom in the tourism industry.
  Aruba seceded from the Netherlands Antilles in 1986 and became a
  separate, autonomous member of the Kingdom of the Netherlands.
  Movement toward full independence was halted at Aruba's request in
  1990.

Ashmore and Cartier Islands:
  These uninhabited islands came under
  Australian authority in 1931; formal administration began two years
  later. Ashmore Reef supports a rich and diverse avian and marine
  habitat; in 1983 it became a National Nature Reserve. Recent
  geological explorations have indicated promising petroleum
  formations.

Atlantic Ocean:
  The Atlantic Ocean is the second-largest of the
  world's five oceans (after the Pacific Ocean, but larger than the
  Indian Ocean, Southern Ocean, and Arctic Ocean). The Kiel Canal
  (Germany), Oresund (Denmark-Sweden), Bosporus (Turkey), Strait of
  Gibraltar (Morocco-Spain), and the St. Lawrence Seaway (Canada-US)
  are important strategic access waterways. The decision by the
  International Hydrographic Organization in the spring of 2000 to
  delimit a fifth world ocean, the Southern Ocean, removed the portion
  of the Atlantic Ocean south of 60 degrees south.

Australia:
  Australia became a commonwealth of the British Empire in
  1901. It was able to take advantage of its natural resources to
  rapidly develop its agricultural and manufacturing industries and to
  make a major contribution to the British effort in World Wars I and
  II. Long-term concerns include pollution, particularly depletion of
  the ozone layer, and management and conservation of coastal areas,
  especially the Great Barrier Reef. A referendum to change
  Australia's status, from a commonwealth headed by the British
  monarch to an independent republic, was defeated in 1999.

Austria:
  Once the center of power for the large Austro-Hungarian
  Empire, Austria was reduced to a small republic after its defeat in
  World War I. Following annexation by Nazi Germany in 1938 and
  subsequent occupation by the victorious Allies, Austria's 1955 State
  Treaty declared the country "permanently neutral" as a condition of
  Soviet military withdrawal. Neutrality, once ingrained as part of
  the Austrian cultural identity, has been called into question since
  the Soviet collapse of 1991 and Austria's increasingly prominent
  role in European affairs. A prosperous country, Austria joined the
  European Union in 1995 and the euro monetary system in 1999.

Azerbaijan:
  Azerbaijan - a nation of Turkic Muslims - has been an
  independent republic since the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991.
  Despite a cease-fire, in place since 1994, Azerbaijan has yet to
  resolve its conflict with Armenia over the Azerbaijani
  Nagorno-Karabakh enclave (largely Armenian populated). Azerbaijan
  has lost almost 20% of its territory and must support some 750,000
  refugees and internally displaced persons (IDPs) as a result of the
  conflict. Corruption is ubiquitous and the promise of widespread
  wealth from Azerbaijan's undeveloped petroleum resources remains
  largely unfulfilled.

Bahamas, The:
  Since attaining independence from the UK in 1973, The
  Bahamas have prospered through tourism and international banking and
  investment management. Because of its geography, the country is a
  major transshipment point for illegal drugs, particularly shipments
  to the US, and its territory is used for smuggling illegal migrants
  into the US.

Bahrain:
  Bahrain's small size and central location among Persian
  Gulf countries require it to play a delicate balancing act in
  foreign affairs among its larger neighbors. Possessing minimal oil
  reserves, Bahrain has turned to petroleum processing and refining,
  and has transformed itself into an international banking center. The
  new amir is pushing economic and political reforms, and has worked
  to improve relations with the Shi'a community. In 2001, the
  International Court of Justice awarded the Hawar Islands, long
  disputed with Qatar, to Bahrain.

Baker Island:
  The US took possession of the island in 1857, and its
  guano deposits were mined by US and British companies during the
  second half of the 19th century. In 1935, a short-lived attempt at
  colonization was begun on this island - as well as on nearby Howland
  Island - but was disrupted by World War II and thereafter abandoned.
  Presently the island is a National Wildlife Refuge run by the US
  Department of the Interior; a day beacon is situated near the middle
  of the west coast.

Bangladesh:
  Bangladesh came into existence in 1971 when Bengali East
  Pakistan seceded from its union with West Pakistan. About a third of
  this extremely poor country annually floods during the monsoon rainy
  season, hampering economic development.

Barbados:
  The island was uninhabited when first settled by the
  British in 1627. Its economy remained heavily dependent on sugar,
  rum, and molasses production through most of the 20th century. In
  the 1990s, tourism and manufacturing surpassed the sugar industry in
  economic importance.

Bassas da India:
  This atoll is a volcanic rock surrounded by reefs
  and is awash at high tide. A French possession since 1897, it was
  placed under the administration of a commissioner residing in
  Reunion in 1968.

Belarus:
  After seven decades as a constituent republic of the USSR,
  Belarus attained its independence in 1991. It has retained closer
  political and economic ties to Russia than any of the other former
  Soviet republics. Belarus and Russia signed a treaty on a two-state
  union on 8 December 1999 envisioning greater political and economic
  integration but, to date, neither side has actively sought to
  implement the accord.

Belgium:
  Belgium became independent from the Netherlands in 1830 and
  was occupied by Germany during World Wars I and II. It has prospered
  in the past half century as a modern, technologically advanced
  European state and member of NATO and the EU. Tensions between the
  Dutch-speaking Flemings of the north and the French-speaking
  Walloons of the south have led in recent years to constitutional
  amendments granting these regions formal recognition and autonomy.

Belize:
  Territorial disputes between the UK and Guatemala delayed
  the independence of Belize (formerly British Honduras) until 1981.
  Guatemala refused to recognize the new nation until 1992. Tourism
  has become the mainstay of the economy. The country remains plagued
  by high unemployment, growing involvement in the South American drug
  trade, and increased urban crime.

Benin:
  Dahomey gained its independence from France in 1960; the name
  was changed to Benin in 1975. From 1974 to 1989 the country was a
  socialist state; free elections were reestablished in 1991.

Bermuda:
  Bermuda was first settled in 1609 by shipwrecked English
  colonists headed for Virginia. Tourism to the island to escape North
  American winters first developed in Victorian times. Bermuda has
  developed into a highly successful offshore financial center. A
  referendum on independence was soundly defeated in 1995.

Bhutan:
  Under British influence a monarchy was set up in 1907; three
  years later a treaty was signed whereby the country became a British
  protectorate. Independence was attained in 1949, with India
  subsequently guiding foreign relations and supplying aid. A refugee
  issue of some 100,000 Bhutanese in Nepal remains unresolved; 90% of
  these displaced persons are housed in seven United Nations Office of
  the High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) camps. Maoist Assamese
  separatists from India, who have established themselves in the
  southeast portion of Bhutan, have drawn Indian cross-border
  incursions.

Bolivia:
  Bolivia, named after independence fighter Simon BOLIVAR,
  broke away from Spanish rule in 1825; much of its subsequent history
  has consisted of a series of nearly 200 coups and counter-coups.
  Comparatively democratic civilian rule was established in the 1980s,
  but leaders have faced difficult problems of deep-seated poverty,
  social unrest, and drug production. Current goals include attracting
  foreign investment, strengthening the educational system, continuing
  the privatization program, and waging an anti-corruption campaign.

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  Bosnia and Herzegovina's declaration of
  sovereignty in October 1991, was followed by a referendum for
  independence from the former Yugoslavia in February 1992. The
  Bosnian Serbs - supported by neighboring Serbia - responded with
  armed resistance aimed at partitioning the republic along ethnic
  lines and joining Serb-held areas to form a "greater Serbia." In
  March 1994, Bosniaks and Croats reduced the number of warring
  factions from three to two by signing an agreement creating a joint
  Bosniak/Croat Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. On 21 November
  1995, in Dayton, Ohio, the warring parties signed a peace agreement
  that brought to a halt the three years of interethnic civil strife
  (the final agreement was signed in Paris on 14 December 1995). The
  Dayton Agreement retained Bosnia and Herzegovina's international
  boundaries and created a joint multi-ethnic and democratic
  government. This national government is charged with conducting
  foreign, economic, and fiscal policy. Also recognized was a second
  tier of government comprised of two entities roughly equal in size:
  the Bosniak/Croat Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the
  Bosnian Serb-led Republika Srpska (RS). The Federation and RS
  governments are charged with overseeing internal functions. In
  1995-96, a NATO-led international peacekeeping force (IFOR) of
  60,000 troops served in Bosnia to implement and monitor the military
  aspects of the agreement. IFOR was succeeded by a smaller, NATO-led
  Stabilization Force (SFOR) whose mission is to deter renewed
  hostilities. SFOR remains in place at a level of approximately
  21,000 troops.

Botswana:
  Formerly the British protectorate of Bechuanaland,
  Botswana adopted its new name upon independence in 1966. The
  economy, one of the most robust on the continent, is dominated by
  diamond mining.

Bouvet Island:
  This uninhabited volcanic island is almost entirely
  covered by glaciers and is difficult to approach. It was discovered
  in 1739 by a French naval officer after whom the island was named.
  No claim was made until 1825 when the British flag was raised. In
  1928, the UK waived its claim in favor of Norway, which had occupied
  the island the previous year. In 1971, Bouvet Island and the
  adjacent territorial waters were designated a nature reserve. Since
  1977, Norway has run an automated meteorological station on the
  island.

Brazil:
  Following three centuries under the rule of Portugal, Brazil
  became an independent nation in 1822. By far the largest and most
  populous country in South America, Brazil has overcome more than
  half a century of military intervention in the governance of the
  country to pursue industrial and agricultural growth and development
  of the interior. Exploiting vast natural resources and a large labor
  pool, Brazil became Latin America's leading economic power by the
  1970s. Highly unequal income distribution remains a pressing problem.

British Indian Ocean Territory:
  Established as a territory of the UK
  in 1965, a number of the British Indian Ocean Territory (BIOT)
  islands were transferred to the Seychelles when it attained
  independence in 1976. Subsequently, BIOT has consisted only of the
  six main island groups comprising the Chagos Archipelago. The
  largest and most southerly of the islands, Diego Garcia, contains a
  joint UK-US naval support facility. All of the remaining islands are
  uninhabited. Former agricultural workers, earlier resident in the
  islands, were relocated primarily to Mauritius but also to the
  Seychelles, between 1967 and 1973. In 2000, a British High Court
  ruling invalidated the local immigration order which had excluded
  them from the archipelago, but upheld the special military status of
  Diego Garcia.

British Virgin Islands:
  First settled by the Dutch in 1648, the
  islands were soon after (1672) annexed by the English. The economy
  is closely tied to the larger and more populous US Virgin Islands to
  the west; the US dollar is the legal currency.

Brunei:
  The Sultanate of Brunei's heyday occurred between the 15th
  and 17th centuries, when its control extended over coastal areas of
  northwest Borneo and the southern Philippines. Brunei subsequently
  entered a period of decline brought on by internal strife over royal
  succession, colonial expansion of European powers, and piracy. In
  1888, Brunei became a British protectorate; independence was
  achieved in 1984. Brunei benefits from extensive petroleum and
  natural gas fields, the source of one of the highest per capita GDPs
  in the less developed countries. The same family has now ruled in
  Brunei for over six centuries.

Bulgaria:
  Bulgaria earned its independence from the Ottoman Empire
  in 1878, but having fought on the losing side in both World Wars, it
  fell within the Soviet sphere of influence and became a People's
  Republic in 1946. Communist domination ended in 1990, when Bulgaria
  held its first multi-party election since World War II and began the
  contentious process of moving toward political democracy and a
  market economy while combating inflation, unemployment, corruption,
  and crime. Today, reforms and democratization keep Bulgaria on a
  path toward eventual integration into NATO and the EU - with which
  it began accession negotiations in 2000.

Burkina Faso:
  Independence from France came to Burkina Faso
  (formerly Upper Volta) in 1960. Governmental instability during the
  1970s and 1980s was followed by multiparty elections in the early
  1990s. Several hundred thousand farm workers migrate south every
  year to Cote d'Ivoire and Ghana.

Burma:
  Despite multiparty elections in 1990 that resulted in the
  main opposition party winning a decisive victory, the military junta
  ruling the country refused to hand over power. Key opposition leader
  and Nobel Peace Prize recipient AUNG San Suu Kyi, under house arrest
  from 1989 to 1995, was again placed under house detention in
  September 2000; her supporters are routinely harassed or jailed.

Burundi:
  Between 1993 and 2000, wide-spread, often intense ethnic
  violence between Hutu and Tutsi factions in Burundi created hundreds
  of thousands of refugees and left tens of thousands dead. Although
  some refugees have returned from neighboring countries, continued
  ethnic strife has forced many others to flee. Burundian troops,
  seeking to secure their borders, have intervened in the conflict in
  the Democratic Republic of the Congo.

Cambodia:
  Following a five-year struggle, communist Khmer Rouge
  forces captured Phnom Penh in 1975 and ordered the evacuation of all
  cities and towns; over 1 million displaced people died from
  execution or enforced hardships. A 1978 Vietnamese invasion drove
  the Khmer Rouge into the countryside and touched off 13 years of
  fighting. UN-sponsored elections in 1993 helped restore some
  semblance of normalcy, as did the rapid diminishment of the Khmer
  Rouge in the mid-1990s. A coalition government, formed after
  national elections in 1998, brought renewed political stability and
  the surrender of remaining Khmer Rouge forces.

Cameroon:
  The former French Cameroon and part of British Cameroon
  merged in 1961 to form the present country. Cameroon has generally
  enjoyed stability, which has permitted the development of
  agriculture, roads, and railways, as well as a petroleum industry.
  Despite movement toward democratic reform, political power remains
  firmly in the hands of an ethnic oligarchy.

Canada:
  A land of vast distances and rich natural resources, Canada
  became a self-governing dominion in 1867 while retaining ties to the
  British crown. Economically and technologically the nation has
  developed in parallel with the US, its neighbor to the south across
  an unfortified border. Its paramount political problem continues to
  be the relationship of the province of Quebec, with its
  French-speaking residents and unique culture, to the remainder of
  the country.

Cape Verde:
  The uninhabited islands were discovered and colonized by
  the Portuguese in the 15th century; they subsequently became a
  trading center for African slaves. Most Cape Verdeans descend from
  both groups. Independence was achieved in 1975.

Cayman Islands:
  The Cayman Islands were colonized from Jamaica by
  the British during the 18th and 19th centuries. Administered by
  Jamaica from 1863, they remained a British dependency after 1962
  when the former became independent.

Central African Republic:
  The former French colony of Ubangi-Shari
  became the Central African Republic upon independence in 1960. After
  three tumultuous decades of misrule - mostly by military governments
  - a civilian government was installed in 1993.

Chad:
  Chad, part of France's African holdings until 1960, endured
  three decades of ethnic warfare as well as invasions by Libya before
  a semblance of peace was finally restored in 1990. The government
  eventually suppressed or came to terms with most political-military
  groups, settled a territorial dispute with Libya on terms favorable
  to Chad, drafted a democratic constitution, and held multiparty
  presidential and National Assembly elections in 1996 and 1997
  respectively. In 1998 a new rebellion broke out in northern Chad,
  which continued to escalate throughout 2000. Despite movement toward
  democratic reform, power remains in the hands of a northern ethnic
  oligarchy.

Chile:
  A three-year-old Marxist government was overthrown in 1973 by
  a dictatorial military regime led by Augusto PINOCHET, which ruled
  until a freely elected president was installed in 1990. Sound
  economic policies, first implemented by the PINOCHET dictatorship,
  led to unprecedented growth in 1991-97 and have helped secure the
  country's commitment to democratic and representative government.
  Growth slowed in 1998-99, but recovered strongly in 2000.

China:
  For centuries China has stood as a leading civilization,
  outpacing the rest of the world in the arts and sciences. But in the
  first half of the 20th century, China was beset by major famines,
  civil unrest, military defeats, and foreign occupation. After World
  War II, the Communists under MAO Zedong established a dictatorship
  that, while ensuring China's sovereignty, imposed strict controls
  over everyday life and cost the lives of tens of millions of people.
  After 1978, his successor DENG Xiaoping gradually introduced
  market-oriented reforms and decentralized economic decision making.
  Output quadrupled in the next 20 years and China now has the world's
  second largest GDP. Political controls remain tight even while
  economic controls continue to weaken.

Christmas Island:
  Named in 1643 for the day of its discovery, the
  island was annexed and settlement was begun by the UK in 1888.
  Phosphate mining began in the 1890s. The UK transferred sovereignty
  to Australia in 1958. The phosphate mine, closed in 1987, was
  reopened four years later, but the need for an alternative industry
  has spurred investment in tourism. Old mining areas are being
  restored, and almost two-thirds of the island has been declared a
  national park.

Clipperton Island:
  This isolated island was named for John
  CLIPPERTON, a pirate who made it his hideout early in the 18th
  century. Annexed by France in 1855, it was seized by Mexico in 1897.
  Arbitration eventually awarded the island to France, which took
  possession in 1935.

Cocos (Keeling) Islands:
  The islands were discovered in 1609, but
  remained uninhabited until the 19th century. Annexed by the UK in
  1857, they were transferred to the Australian Government in 1955.
  The population on the two inhabited islands is split between the
  mostly Europeans on West Island and the Malays on Home Island.

Colombia:
  Colombia was one of the three countries that emerged from
  the collapse of Gran Colombia in 1830 (the others being Ecuador and
  Venezuela). A 40-year insurgent campaign to overthrow the Colombian
  Government escalated during the 1990s, undergirded in part by funds
  from the drug trade. Although the violence is deadly and large
  swaths of the countryside are under guerrilla influence, the
  movement lacks the military strength or popular support necessary to
  overthrow the government. While Bogota continues to try to negotiate
  a settlement, neighboring countries worry about the violence
  spilling over their borders.

Comoros:
  Unstable Comoros has endured 19 coups or attempted coups
  since gaining independence from France in 1975. In 1997, the islands
  of Anjouan and Moheli declared their independence from Comoros. In
  1999, military chief Col. AZALI seized power. He has pledged to
  resolve the secessionist crisis through the 2000 Fomboni Accord, a
  confederal arrangement that the Organization of African Unity has
  yet to recognize.

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  Since 1994 the Democratic
  Republic of the Congo (DROC; formerly called Zaire) has been rent by
  ethnic strife and civil war, touched off by a massive inflow of
  refugees from the fighting in Rwanda and Burundi. The government of
  former president MOBUTU Sese Seko was toppled by a rebellion led by
  Laurent KABILA in May 1997; his regime was subsequently challenged
  by a Rwanda- and Uganda-backed rebellion in August 1998. Troops from
  Zimbabwe, Angola, Namibia, Chad, and Sudan intervened to support the
  Kinshasa regime. A cease-fire was signed on 10 July 1999, but
  sporadic fighting continued. KABILA was assassinated in January 2001
  and his son Joseph KABILA was named head of state. The new president
  quickly began overtures to end the war.

Congo, Republic of the:
  Upon independence in 1960, the former French
  region of Middle Congo became the Republic of the Congo. A quarter
  century of experimentation with Marxism was abandoned in 1990 and a
  democratically elected government installed in 1992. A brief civil
  war in 1997 restored former Marxist President SASSOU-NGUESSO.

Cook Islands:
  Named after Captain Cook, who sighted them in 1770,
  the islands became a British protectorate in 1888. By 1900,
  administrative control was transferred to New Zealand; in 1965
  residents chose self-government in free association with New
  Zealand. The emigration of skilled workers to New Zealand and
  government deficits are continuing problems.

Coral Sea Islands:
  Scattered over some 1 million square kilometers
  of ocean, the Coral Sea Islands were declared a territory of
  Australia in 1969. They are uninhabited except for a small
  meteorological staff on Willis Island. Automated weather stations,
  beacons, and a lighthouse occupy many other islands and reefs.

Costa Rica:
  Costa Rica is a Central American success story: since
  the late 19th century, only two brief periods of violence have
  marred its democratic development. Although still a largely
  agricultural country, it has achieved a relatively high standard of
  living. Land ownership is widespread. Tourism is a rapidly expanding
  industry.

Cote d'Ivoire:
  Close ties to France since independence in 1960, the
  development of cocoa production for export, and foreign investment
  made Cote d'Ivoire one of the most prosperous of the tropical
  African states. Falling cocoa prices and political turmoil, however,
  sparked an economic downturn in 1999 and 2000. On 25 December 1999,
  a military coup - the first ever in Cote d'Ivoire's history -
  overthrew the government led by President Henri Konan BEDIE.
  Presidential and legislative elections held in October and December
  2000 provoked violence due to the exclusion of opposition leader
  Alassane OUATTARA. In October 2000, Laurent GBAGBO replaced junta
  leader Robert GUEI as president, ending 10 months of military rule.

Croatia:
  In 1918, the Croats, Serbs, and Slovenes formed a kingdom
  known after 1929 as Yugoslavia. Following World War II, Yugoslavia
  became an independent communist state under the strong hand of
  Marshal TITO. Although Croatia declared its independence from
  Yugoslavia in 1991, it took four years of sporadic, but often
  bitter, fighting before occupying Serb armies were mostly cleared
  from Croatian lands. Under UN supervision the last Serb-held enclave
  in eastern Slavonia was returned to Croatia in 1998.

Cuba:
  Fidel CASTRO led a rebel army to victory in 1959; his iron
  rule has held the country together since. Cuba's communist
  revolution, with Soviet support, was exported throughout Latin
  America and Africa during the 1960s, 70s, and 80s. The country is
  now slowly recovering from a severe economic recession in 1990,
  following the withdrawal of former Soviet subsidies, worth $4
  billion to $6 billion annually. Havana portrays its difficulties as
  the result of the US embargo in place since 1961. Illicit migration
  to the US - using homemade rafts, alien smugglers, or falsified
  visas - is a continuing problem. Some 3,000 Cubans took to the
  Straits of Florida in 2000; the US Coast Guard interdicted only
  about 35% of these.

Cyprus:
  Independence from the UK was approved in 1960 with
  constitutional guarantees by the Greek Cypriot majority to the
  Turkish Cypriot minority. In 1974, a Greek-sponsored attempt to
  seize the government was met by military intervention from Turkey,
  which soon controlled almost 40% of the island. In 1983, the
  Turkish-held area declared itself the "Turkish Republic of Northern
  Cyprus", but it is recognized only by Turkey. UN-led talks on the
  status of Cyprus resumed in December 1999 to prepare the ground for
  meaningful negotiations leading to a comprehensive settlement.

Czech Republic:
  After World War II, Czechoslovakia fell within the
  Soviet sphere of influence. In 1968, an invasion by Warsaw Pact
  troops ended the efforts of the country's leaders to liberalize
  party rule and create "socialism with a human face." Anti-Soviet
  demonstrations the following year ushered in a period of harsh
  repression. With the collapse of Soviet authority in 1989,
  Czechoslovakia regained its freedom through a peaceful "Velvet
  Revolution." On 1 January 1993, the country underwent a "velvet
  divorce" into its two national components, the Czech Republic and
  Slovakia. Now a member of NATO, the Czech Republic has moved toward
  integration in world markets, a development that poses both
  opportunities and risks.

Denmark:
  Once the seat of Viking raiders and later a major north
  European power, Denmark has evolved into a modern, prosperous nation
  that is participating in the political and economic integration of
  Europe. So far, however, the country has opted out of some aspects
  of the European Union's Maastricht Treaty, including the economic
  and monetary system (EMU) and issues concerning certain internal
  affairs.

Djibouti:
  The French Territory of the Afars and the Issas became
  Djibouti in 1977. A peace accord in 1994 ended a three-year uprising
  by Afars rebels.

Dominica:
  Dominica was the last of the Caribbean islands to be
  colonized by Europeans, due chiefly to the fierce resistance of the
  native Caribs. France ceded possession to Great Britain in 1763,
  which made the island a colony in 1805. In 1980, two years after
  independence, Dominica's fortunes improved when a corrupt and
  tyrannical administration was replaced by that of Mary Eugenia
  CHARLES, the first female prime minister in the Caribbean, who
  remained in office for 15 years.

Dominican Republic:
  A legacy of unsettled, mostly
  non-representative, rule for much of the 20th century was brought to
  an end in 1996 when free and open elections ushered in a new
  government.

Ecuador:
  The "Republic of the Equator" was one of three countries
  that emerged from the collapse of Gran Colombia in 1830 (the others
  being Colombia and Venezuela). Between 1904 and 1942, Ecuador lost
  territories in a series of conflicts with its neighbors. A border
  war with Peru that flared in 1995 was resolved in 1999.

Egypt:
  Nominally independent from the UK in 1922, Egypt acquired
  full sovereignty following World War II. The completion of the Aswan
  High Dam in 1971 and the resultant Lake Nasser have altered the
  time-honored place of the Nile river in the agriculture and ecology
  of Egypt. A rapidly growing population (the largest in the Arab
  world), limited arable land, and dependence on the Nile all continue
  to overtax resources and stress society. The government has
  struggled to ready the economy for the new millennium through
  economic reform and massive investment in communications and
  physical infrastructure.

El Salvador:
  El Salvador achieved independence from Spain in 1821
  and from the Central American Federation in 1839. A 12-year civil
  war, which cost the lives of some 75,000 people, was brought to a
  close in 1992 when the government and leftist rebels signed a treaty
  that provided for military and political reforms.

Equatorial Guinea:
  Composed of a mainland portion and five inhabited
  islands, Equatorial Guinea has been ruled by ruthless leaders who
  have badly mismanaged the economy since independence from 190 years
  of Spanish rule in 1968. Although nominally a constitutional
  democracy since 1991, the 1996 presidential and 1999 legislative
  elections were widely seen as being flawed.

Eritrea:
  Eritrea was awarded to Ethiopia in 1952 as part of a
  federation. Ethiopia's annexation of Eritrea as a province 10 years
  later sparked a 30-year struggle for independence that ended in 1991
  with Eritrean rebels defeating governmental forces; independence was
  overwhelmingly approved in a 1993 referendum. A two and a half year
  border war with Ethiopia that erupted in 1998 ended under UN
  auspices on 12 December 2000.

Estonia:
  After centuries of Swedish and Russian rule, Estonia
  attained independence in 1918. Forcibly incorporated into the USSR
  in 1940, it regained its freedom in 1991 with the collapse of the
  Soviet Union. Since the last Russian troops left in 1994, Estonia
  has been free to promote economic and political ties with Western
  Europe.

Ethiopia:
  Unique among African countries, the ancient Ethiopian
  monarchy maintained its freedom from colonial rule, one exception
  being the Italian occupation of 1936-41. In 1974 a military junta,
  the Derg, deposed Emperor Haile SELASSIE (who had ruled since 1930)
  and established a socialist state. Torn by bloody coups, uprisings,
  wide-scale drought, and massive refugee problems, the regime was
  finally toppled by a coalition of rebel forces, the Ethiopian
  People's Revolutionary Democratic Front (EPRDF), in 1991. A
  constitution was adopted in 1994 and Ethiopia's first multiparty
  elections were held in 1995. A two and a half year border war with
  Eritrea that ended with a peace treaty on 12 December 2000 has
  strengthened the ruling coalition, but has hurt the nation's economy.

Europa Island:
  A French possession since 1897, the island is heavily
  wooded; it is the site of a small military garrison that staffs a
  weather station.

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas):
  Although first sighted by an
  English navigator in 1592, the first landing (English) did not occur
  until almost a century later in 1690, and the first settlement
  (French) was not established until 1764. The colony was turned over
  to Spain two years later and the islands have since been the subject
  of a territorial dispute, first between Britain and Spain, then
  between Britain and Argentina. The UK asserted its claim to the
  islands by establishing a naval garrison there in 1833. Argentina
  invaded the islands on 2 April 1982. The British responded with an
  expeditionary force that landed seven weeks later and after fierce
  fighting forced Argentine surrender on 14 June 1982.

Faroe Islands:
  The population of the Faroe Islands is largely
  descended from Viking settlers who arrived in the 9th century. The
  islands have been connected politically to Denmark since the 14th
  century. A high degree of self-government was attained in 1948.

Fiji:
  Fiji became independent in 1970, after nearly a century as a
  British colony. Democratic rule was interrupted by two military
  coups in 1987, caused by concern over a government perceived as
  dominated by the Indian community (descendants of contract laborers
  brought to the islands by the British in the 19th century). A 1990
  constitution favored native Melanesian control of Fiji, but led to
  heavy Indian emigration; the population loss resulted in economic
  difficulties, but ensured that Melanesians became the majority.
  Amendments enacted in 1997 made the constitution more equitable.
  Free and peaceful elections in 1999 resulted in a government led by
  an Indo-Fijian, but a coup in May of 2000 ushered in a prolonged
  period of political turmoil. New elections are scheduled for August
  2001.

Finland:
  Ruled by Sweden from the 12th to the 19th centuries and by
  Russia from 1809, Finland finally won its independence in 1917.
  During World War II, it was able to successfully defend its freedom
  and fend off invasions by the Soviet Union and Germany. In the
  subsequent half century, the Finns have made a remarkable
  transformation from a farm/forest economy to a diversified modern
  industrial economy; per capita income is now on par with Western
  Europe. As a member of the European Union, Finland was the only
  Nordic state to join the euro system at its initiation in January
  1999.

France:
  Although ultimately a victor in World Wars I and II, France
  suffered extensive losses in its empire, wealth, manpower, and rank
  as a dominant nation-state. Nevertheless, France today is one of the
  most modern countries in the world and is a leader among European
  nations. Since 1958, it has constructed a presidential democracy
  resistant to the instabilities experienced in earlier parliamentary
  democracies. In recent years, its reconciliation and cooperation
  with Germany have proved central to the economic integration of
  Europe, including the advent of the euro in January 1999. Presently,
  France is at the forefront of European states seeking to exploit the
  momentum of monetary union to advance the creation of a more unified
  and capable European defense and security apparatus.

French Guiana:
  First settled by the French in 1604, French Guiana
  was the site of notorious penal settlements until 1951. The European
  Space Agency launches its communication satellites from Kourou.

French Polynesia:
  The French annexed various Polynesian island
  groups during the 19th century. In September 1995, France stirred up
  widespread protests by resuming nuclear testing on the Mururoa atoll
  after a three-year moratorium. The tests were suspended in January
  1996.

French Southern and Antarctic Lands:
  The Southern Lands consist of
  two archipelagos, Iles Crozet and Iles Kerguelen, and two volcanic
  islands, Ile Amsterdam and Ile Saint-Paul. They contain no permanent
  inhabitants and are visited only by researchers studying the native
  fauna. The Antarctic portion consists of "Adelie Land," a thin slice
  of the Antarctic continent discovered and claimed by the French in
  1840.

Gabon:
  Ruled by autocratic presidents since independence from France
  in 1960, Gabon introduced a multiparty system and a new constitution
  in the early 1990s that allowed for a more transparent electoral
  process and for reforms of governmental institutions. A small
  population, abundant natural resources, and foreign private
  investment have helped make Gabon one of the more prosperous black
  African countries.

Gambia, The:
  The Gambia gained its independence from the UK in 1965;
  it formed a short-lived federation of Senegambia with Senegal
  between 1982 and 1989. In 1991 the two nations signed a friendship
  and cooperation treaty. A military coup in 1994 overthrew the
  president and banned political activity, but a new 1996 constitution
  and presidential elections, followed by parliamentary balloting in
  1997, have completed a nominal return to civilian rule.

Gaza Strip:
  The Israel-PLO Declaration of Principles on Interim
  Self-Government Arrangements (the DOP), signed in Washington on 13
  September 1993, provided for a transitional period not exceeding
  five years of Palestinian interim self-government in the Gaza Strip
  and the West Bank. Under the DOP, Israel agreed to transfer certain
  powers and responsibilities to the Palestinian Authority, which
  includes the Palestinian Legislative Council elected in January
  1996, as part of the interim self-governing arrangements in the West
  Bank and Gaza Strip. A transfer of powers and responsibilities for
  the Gaza Strip and Jericho took place pursuant to the Israel-PLO 4
  May 1994 Cairo Agreement on the Gaza Strip and the Jericho Area and
  in additional areas of the West Bank pursuant to the Israel-PLO 28
  September 1995 Interim Agreement, the Israel-PLO 15 January 1997
  Protocol Concerning Redeployment in Hebron, the Israel-PLO 23
  October 1998 Wye River Memorandum, and the 4 September 1999 Sharm
  el-Sheikh Agreement. The DOP provides that Israel will retain
  responsibility during the transitional period for external security
  and for internal security and public order of settlements and
  Israeli citizens. Permanent status is to be determined through
  direct negotiations, which resumed in September 1999 after a
  three-year hiatus. An intifadah broke out in September 2000; the
  resulting widespread violence in the West Bank and Gaza Strip,
  Israel's military response, and instability in the Palestinian
  Authority are undermining progress toward a permanent settlement.

Georgia:
  Georgia was absorbed into the Russian Empire in the 19th
  century. Independent for three years (1918-1921) following the
  Russian revolution, it was forcibly incorporated into the USSR until
  the Soviet Union dissolved in 1991. Russian troops remain garrisoned
  at four military bases and as peacekeepers in the separatist regions
  of Abkhazia and South Ossetia (but are scheduled to withdraw from
  two of the bases by July 2001). Despite a badly degraded
  transportation network - brought on by ethnic conflict, criminal
  activities, and fuel shortages - the country continues to move
  toward a market economy and greater integration with Western
  institutions.

Germany:
  As Western Europe's richest and most populous nation,
  Germany remains a key member of the continent's economic, political,
  and defense organizations. European power struggles immersed the
  country in two devastating World Wars in the first half of the 20th
  century and left the country occupied by the victorious Allied
  powers of the US, UK, France, and the Soviet Union in 1945. With the
  advent of the Cold War, two German states were formed in 1949: the
  western Federal Republic of Germany (FRG) and the eastern German
  Democratic Republic (GDR). The democratic FRG embedded itself in key
  Western economic and security organizations, the EC and NATO, while
  the communist GDR was on the front line of the Soviet-led Warsaw
  Pact. The decline of the USSR and the end of the Cold War allowed
  for German unification in 1990. Since then Germany has expended
  considerable funds to bring eastern productivity and wages up to
  western standards. In January 1999, Germany and 10 other EU
  countries formed a common European currency, the euro.

Ghana:
  Formed from the merger of the British colony of the Gold
  Coast and the Togoland trust territory, Ghana in 1957 became the
  first country in colonial Africa to gain its independence. A long
  series of coups resulted in the suspension of the constitution in
  1981 and the banning of political parties. A new constitution,
  restoring multiparty politics, was approved in 1992. Lt. Jerry
  RAWLINGS, head of state since 1981, won presidential elections in
  1992 and 1996, but was constitutionally prevented from running for a
  third term in 2000. He was succeeded by John KUFUOR.

Gibraltar:
  Strategically important, Gibraltar was ceded to Great
  Britain by Spain in the 1713 Treaty of Utrecht; the British garrison
  was formally declared a colony in 1830. In a 1967 referendum,
  Gibraltarians ignored Spanish pressure and voted overwhelmingly to
  remain a British dependency.

Glorioso Islands:
  A French possession since 1892, the Glorioso
  Islands are composed of two lushly vegetated islands (Ile Glorieuse
  and Ile du Lys) and three rock islets. A military garrison operates
  a weather and radio station on Ile Glorieuse.

Greece:
  Greece achieved its independence from the Ottoman Empire in
  1829. During the second half of the 19th century and the first half
  of the 20th century, it gradually added neighboring islands and
  territories with Greek-speaking populations. Following the defeat of
  communist rebels in 1949, Greece joined NATO in 1952. A military
  dictatorship, which in 1967 suspended many political liberties and
  forced the king to flee the country, lasted seven years. Democratic
  elections in 1974 and a referendum created a parliamentary republic
  and abolished the monarchy; Greece joined the European Community or
  EC in 1981 (which became the EU in 1992).

Greenland:
  The world's largest island, about 84% ice-capped,
  Greenland was granted self-government in 1978 by the Danish
  parliament. The law went into effect the following year. Denmark
  continues to exercise control of Greenland's foreign affairs.

Grenada:
  One of the smallest independent countries in the western
  hemisphere, Grenada was seized by a Marxist military council on 19
  October 1983. Six days later the island was invaded by US forces and
  those of six other Caribbean nations, which quickly captured the
  ringleaders and their hundreds of Cuban advisers. Free elections
  were reinstituted the following year.

Guadeloupe:
  Guadeloupe has been a French possession since 1635. The
  island of Saint-Martin is divided with the Netherlands (whose
  southern portion is named Sint Maarten and is part of the
  Netherlands Antilles).

Guam:
  Guam was ceded to the US by Spain in 1898. Captured by the
  Japanese in 1941, it was retaken by the US three years later. The
  military installation on the island is one of the most strategically
  important US bases in the Pacific.

Guatemala:
  Guatemala was freed of Spanish colonial rule in 1821.
  During the second half of the 20th century, it experienced a variety
  of military and civilian governments as well as a 36-year guerrilla
  war. In 1996, the government signed a peace agreement formally
  ending the conflict, which had led to the death of more than 100,000
  people and had created some 1 million refugees.

Guernsey:
  The island of Guernsey and the other Channel Islands
  represent the last remnants of the medieval Dukedom of Normandy,
  which held sway in both France and England. The islands were the
  only British soil occupied by German troops in World War II.

Guinea:
  Independent from France since 1958, Guinea did not hold
  democratic elections until 1993 when Gen. Lansana CONTE (head of the
  military government) was elected president of the civilian
  government. He was reelected in 1998. Unrest in Sierra Leone has
  spilled over into Guinea, threatening stability and creating a
  humanitarian emergency.

Guinea-Bissau:
  In 1994, 20 years after independence from Portugal,
  the country's first multiparty legislative and presidential
  elections were held. An army uprising that triggered a bloody civil
  war in 1998, created hundreds of thousands of displaced persons. The
  president was ousted by a military junta in May 1999. An interim
  government turned over power in February 2000 when opposition leader
  Koumba YALLA took office following two rounds of transparent
  presidential elections. Guinea-Bissau's transition back to democracy
  will be complicated by a crippled economy devastated by civil war
  and the military's predilection for governmental meddling.

Guyana:
  Guyana achieved independence from the UK in 1966 and became
  a republic in 1970. In 1989 Guyana launched an Economic Recovery
  Program, which marked a dramatic reversal from a state-controlled,
  socialist economy towards a more open, free market system. Results
  through the first decade have proven encouraging.

Haiti:
  One of the poorest countries in the Western Hemisphere, Haiti
  has been plagued by political violence for most of its history. Over
  three decades of dictatorship followed by military rule ended in
  1990 when Jean-Bertrand ARISTIDE was elected president. Most of his
  term was usurped by a military takeover, but he was able to return
  to office in 1994 and oversee the installation of a close associate
  to the presidency in 1996. ARISTIDE won a second term as president
  in 2000, and took office early the following year.

Heard Island and McDonald Islands:
  These uninhabited, barren islands
  were transferred from the UK to Australia in 1947. Populated by
  large numbers of seal and bird species, the islands have been
  designated a nature preserve.

Holy See (Vatican City):
  Popes in their secular role ruled much of
  the Italian peninsula for more than a thousand years until the mid
  19th century, when many of the Papal States were seized by the newly
  united Kingdom of Italy. In 1870, the pope's holdings were further
  circumscribed when Rome itself was annexed. Disputes between a
  series of "prisoner" popes and Italy were resolved in 1929 by three
  Lateran Treaties, which established the independent state of Vatican
  City and granted Roman Catholicism special status in Italy. In 1984,
  a concordat between the Vatican and Italy modified certain of the
  earlier treaty provisions, including the primacy of Roman
  Catholicism as the Italian state religion. Present concerns of the
  Holy See include the failing health of Pope John Paul II,
  interreligious dialogue and reconciliation, and the adjustment of
  church doctrine in an era of rapid change and globalization. About 1
  billion people worldwide profess the Catholic faith.

Honduras:
  Part of Spain's vast empire in the New World, Honduras
  became an independent nation in 1821. After two and one-half decades
  of mostly military rule, a freely elected civilian government came
  to power in 1982. During the 1980s, Honduras proved a haven for
  anti-Sandinista contras fighting the Marxist Nicaraguan Government
  and an ally to Salvadoran Government forces fighting against leftist
  guerrillas.

Hong Kong:
  Occupied by the UK in 1841, Hong Kong was formally ceded
  by China the following year; various adjacent lands were added later
  in the 19th century. Pursuant to an agreement signed by China and
  the UK on 19 December 1984, Hong Kong became the Hong Kong Special
  Administrative Region (SAR) of China on 1 July 1997. In this
  agreement, China has promised that, under its "one country, two
  systems" formula, China's socialist economic system will not be
  practiced in Hong Kong and that Hong Kong will enjoy a high degree
  of autonomy in all matters except foreign and defense affairs for
  the next 50 years.

Howland Island:
  Discovered by the US early in the 19th century, the
  island was officially claimed by the US in 1857. Both US and British
  companies mined for guano until about 1890. Earhart Light is a day
  beacon near the middle of the west coast that was partially
  destroyed during World War II, but has since been rebuilt; it is
  named in memory of famed aviatrix Amelia EARHART. The island is
  administered by the US Department of the Interior as a National
  Wildlife Refuge.

Hungary:
  Hungary was part of the polyglot Austro-Hungarian Empire,
  which collapsed during World War I. The country fell under communist
  rule following World War II. In 1956, a revolt and announced
  withdrawal from the Warsaw Pact were met with a massive military
  intervention by Moscow. In the more open GORBACHEV years, Hungary
  led the movement to dissolve the Warsaw Pact and steadily shifted
  toward multiparty democracy and a market-oriented economy. Following
  the collapse of the USSR in 1991, Hungary developed close political
  and economic ties to Western Europe. It joined NATO in 1999 and is a
  frontrunner in a future expansion of the EU.

Iceland:
  Settled by Norwegian and Celtic (Scottish and Irish)
  immigrants during the late 9th and 10th centuries A.D., Iceland
  boasts the world's oldest functioning legislative assembly, the
  Althing, established in 930. Independent for over 300 years, Iceland
  was subsequently ruled by Norway and Denmark. Fallout from the Askja
  volcano of 1875 devastated the Icelandic economy and caused
  widespread famine. Over the next quarter century, 20% of the
  island's population emigrated, mostly to Canada and the US. Limited
  home rule from Denmark was granted in 1874 and complete independence
  attained in 1944. Literacy, longevity, income, and social cohesion
  are first-rate by world standards.

India:
  The Indus Valley civilization, one of the oldest in the
  world, goes back at least 5,000 years. Aryan tribes from the
  northwest invaded about 1500 B.C.; their merger with the earlier
  inhabitants created classical Indian culture. Arab incursions
  starting in the 8th century and Turkish in 12th were followed by
  European traders beginning in the late 15th century. By the 19th
  century, Britain had assumed political control of virtually all
  Indian lands. Nonviolent resistance to British colonialism under
  Mohandas GANDHI and Jawaharlal NEHRU led to independence in 1947.
  The subcontinent was divided into the secular state of India and the
  smaller Muslim state of Pakistan. A third war between the two
  countries in 1971 resulted in East Pakistan becoming the separate
  nation of Bangladesh. Fundamental concerns in India include the
  ongoing dispute with Pakistan over Kashmir, massive overpopulation,
  environmental degradation, extensive poverty, and ethnic strife, all
  this despite impressive gains in economic investment and output.

Indian Ocean:
  The Indian Ocean is the third-largest of the world's
  five oceans (after the Pacific Ocean and Atlantic Ocean, but larger
  than the Southern Ocean and Arctic Ocean). Four critically important
  access waterways are the Suez Canal (Egypt), Bab el Mandeb
  (Djibouti-Yemen), Strait of Hormuz (Iran-Oman), and Strait of
  Malacca (Indonesia-Malaysia). The decision by the International
  Hydrographic Organization in the spring of 2000 to delimit a fifth
  ocean, the Southern Ocean, removed the portion of the Indian Ocean
  south of 60 degrees south.

Indonesia:
  The world's largest archipelago, Indonesia achieved
  independence from the Netherlands in 1949. Current issues include:
  implementing IMF-mandated reforms of the banking sector, effecting a
  transition to a popularly elected government after four decades of
  authoritarianism, addressing charges of cronyism and corruption,
  holding the military accountable for human rights violations, and
  resolving growing separatist pressures in Aceh and Irian Jaya. On 30
  August 1999 a provincial referendum for independence was
  overwhelmingly approved by the people of Timor Timur. Concurrence
  followed by Indonesia's national legislature, and the name East
  Timor was provisionally adopted. The independent status of East
  Timor - now under UN administration - has yet to be formally
  established.

Iran:
  Known as Persia until 1935, Iran became an Islamic republic in
  1979 after the ruling shah was forced into exile. Conservative
  clerical forces subsequently crushed westernizing liberal elements.
  Militant Iranian students seized the US Embassy in Tehran on 4
  November 1979 and held it until 20 January 1981. During 1980-88,
  Iran fought a bloody, indecisive war with Iraq over disputed
  territory. The key current issue is how rapidly the country should
  open up to the modernizing influences of the outside world.

Iraq:
  Formerly part of the Ottoman Empire, Iraq became an
  independent kingdom in 1932. A "republic" was proclaimed in 1958,
  but in actuality a series of military strongmen have ruled the
  country since then, the latest being SADDAM Husayn. Territorial
  disputes with Iran led to an inconclusive and costly eight-year war
  (1980-1988). In August 1990 Iraq seized Kuwait, but was expelled by
  US-led, UN coalition forces during January-February 1991. The
  victors did not occupy Iraq, however, thus allowing the regime to
  stay in control. Following Kuwait's liberation, the UN Security
  Council (UNSC) required Iraq to scrap all weapons of mass
  destruction and long-range missiles and to allow UN verification
  inspections. UN trade sanctions remain in effect due to incomplete
  Iraqi compliance with relevant UNSC resolutions.

Ireland:
  A failed 1916 Easter Monday Rebellion touched off several
  years of guerrilla warfare that in 1921 resulted in independence
  from the UK for the 26 southern counties; the six northern counties
  (Ulster) remained part of Great Britain. In 1948 Ireland withdrew
  from the British Commonwealth; it joined the European Community in
  1973. Irish governments have sought the peaceful unification of
  Ireland and have cooperated with Britain against terrorist groups. A
  peace settlement for Northern Ireland, approved in 1998, was
  implemented the following year.

Israel:
  Following World War II, the British withdrew from their
  mandate of Palestine, and the UN partitioned the area into Arab and
  Jewish states, an arrangement rejected by the Arabs. Subsequently,
  the Israelis defeated the Arabs in a series of wars without ending
  the deep tensions between the two sides. The territories occupied by
  Israel since the 1967 war are not included in the Israel country
  profile, unless otherwise noted. In keeping with the framework
  established at the Madrid Conference in October 1991, bilateral
  negotiations are being conducted between Israel and Palestinian
  representatives (from the Israeli-occupied West Bank and Gaza Strip)
  and Israel and Syria, to achieve a permanent settlement. On 25 April
  1982, Israel withdrew from the Sinai pursuant to the 1979
  Israel-Egypt Peace Treaty. Outstanding territorial and other
  disputes with Jordan were resolved in the 26 October 1994
  Israel-Jordan Treaty of Peace. On 25 May 2000, Israel withdrew
  unilaterally from southern Lebanon, which it had occupied since 1982.

Italy:
  Italy became a nation-state belatedly - in 1861 when the
  city-states of the peninsula, along with Sardinia and Sicily, were
  united under King Victor EMMANUEL. An era of parliamentary
  government came to a close in the early 1920s when Benito MUSSOLINI
  established a Fascist dictatorship. His disastrous alliance with
  Nazi Germany led to Italy's defeat in World War II. A democratic
  republic replaced the monarchy in 1946 and economic revival
  followed. Italy was a charter member of NATO and the European
  Economic Community (EEC). It has been at the forefront of European
  economic and political unification, joining the European Monetary
  Union in 1999. Persistent problems include illegal immigration, the
  ravages of organized crime, corruption, high unemployment, and the
  low incomes and technical standards of southern Italy compared with
  the more prosperous north.

Jamaica:
  Jamaica gained full independence within the British
  Commonwealth in 1962. Deteriorating economic conditions during the
  1970s led to recurrent violence and a dropoff in tourism. Elections
  in 1980 saw the democratic socialists voted out of office.
  Subsequent governments have been open market oriented. Political
  violence marred elections during the 1990s.

Jan Mayen:
  This desolate, mountainous island was named after a Dutch
  whaling captain who indisputably discovered it in 1614 (earlier
  claims are inconclusive). Visited only occasionally by seal hunters
  and trappers over the following centuries, the island came under
  Norwegian sovereignty in 1929. The long dormant Beerenberg volcano
  resumed activity in 1970; it is the northernmost active volcano on
  earth.

Japan:
  While retaining its time-honored culture, Japan rapidly
  absorbed Western technology during the late 19th and early 20th
  centuries. After its devastating defeat in World War II, Japan
  recovered to become the second most powerful economy in the world
  and a staunch ally of the US. While the emperor retains his throne
  as a symbol of national unity, actual power rests in networks of
  powerful politicians, bureaucrats, and business executives. The
  economy experienced a major slowdown in the 1990s following three
  decades of unprecedented growth.

Jarvis Island:
  First discovered by the British in 1821, the
  uninhabited island was annexed by the US in 1858, but abandoned in
  1879 after tons of guano had been removed. The UK annexed the island
  in 1889, but never carried out plans for further exploitation. The
  US occupied and reclaimed the island in 1935. Abandoned after World
  War II, the island is currently a National Wildlife Refuge
  administered by the US Department of the Interior; a day beacon is
  situated near the middle of the west coast.

Jersey:
  The island of Jersey and the other Channel Islands represent
  the last remnants of the medieval Dukedom of Normandy that held sway
  in both France and England. These islands were the only British soil
  occupied by German troops in World War II.

Johnston Atoll:
  Both the US and the Kingdom of Hawaii annexed
  Johnston Atoll in 1858, but it was the US that mined the guano
  deposits until the late 1880s. The US Navy took over the atoll in
  1934, and subsequently the US Air Force assumed control in 1948. The
  site was used for high altitude nuclear tests in the 1950s and
  1960s, and until late in 2000 the atoll was maintained as a storage
  and disposal site for chemical weapons. Munitions destruction is now
  complete, and cleanup and closure of the facility is progressing.

Jordan:
  For most of its history since independence from British
  administration in 1946, Jordan was ruled by King HUSSEIN
  (1953-1999). A pragmatic ruler, he successfully navigated competing
  pressures from the major powers (US, USSR, and UK), various Arab
  states, Israel, and a large internal Palestinian population, through
  several wars and coup attempts. In 1989 he resumed parliamentary
  elections and gradually permitted political liberalization; in 1994
  a formal peace treaty was signed with Israel. King ABDALLAH II - the
  eldest son of King HUSSEIN and Princess MUNA - assumed the throne
  following his father's death in February 1999. Since then, he has
  consolidated his power and established his domestic priorities.

Juan de Nova Island:
  Named after a famous 15th century Spanish
  navigator and explorer, the island has been a French possession
  since 1897. It has been exploited for its guano and phosphate.
  Presently a small military garrison oversees a meteorological
  station.

Kazakhstan:
  Native Kazakhs, a mix of Turkic and Mongol nomadic
  tribes who migrated into the region in the 13th century, were rarely
  united as a single nation. The area was conquered by Russia in the
  18th century and Kazakhstan became a Soviet Republic in 1936. During
  the 1950s and 1960s agricultural "Virgin Lands" program, Soviet
  citizens were encouraged to help cultivate Kazakhstan's northern
  pastures. This influx of immigrants (mostly Russians, but also some
  other deported nationalities) skewed the ethnic mixture and enabled
  non-Kazakhs to outnumber natives. Independence has caused many of
  these newcomers to emigrate. Current issues include: developing a
  cohesive national identity; expanding the development of the
  country's vast energy resources and exporting them to world markets;
  and continuing to strengthen relations with neighboring states and
  other foreign powers.

Kenya:
  Revered president and liberation struggle icon Jomo KENYATTA
  led Kenya from independence until his death in 1978, when current
  President Daniel Toroitich arap MOI took power in a constitutional
  succession. The country was a de facto one-party state from 1969
  until 1982 when the ruling Kenya African National Union (KANU) made
  itself the sole legal party in Kenya. MOI acceded to internal and
  external pressure for political liberalization in late 1991. The
  ethnically fractured opposition failed to dislodge KANU from power
  in elections in 1992 and 1997, which were marred by violence and
  fraud, but are viewed as having generally reflected the will of the
  Kenyan people. The country faces a period of political uncertainty
  because MOI is constitutionally required to step down at the next
  elections that have to be held by early 2003.

Kingman Reef:
  The US annexed the reef in 1922. Its sheltered lagoon
  served as a way station for flying boats on Hawaii-to-American Samoa
  flights during the late 1930s. There is no flora on the reef, which
  is frequently awash, but it does support an abundant and diverse
  marine fauna. In 2001, the waters surrounding the reef were
  designated a National Wildlife Refuge.

Kiribati:
  The Gilbert Islands were granted self-rule by the UK in
  1971 and complete independence in 1979 under the new name of
  Kiribati. The US relinquished all claims to the sparsely inhabited
  Phoenix and Line Island groups in a 1979 treaty of friendship with
  Kiribati.

Korea, North:
  Following World War II, Korea was split into a
  northern, communist half and a southern, Western-oriented half. KIM
  Chong-il has ruled North Korea since his father and the country's
  founder, president KIM Il-song, died in 1994. After decades of
  mismanagement, the North relies heavily on international food aid to
  feed its population, while continuing to expend resources to
  maintain an army of about 1 million. North Korea's long-range
  missile development and research into nuclear and chemical weapons
  are of major concern to the international community.

Korea, South:
  After World War II, a republic was set up in the
  southern half of the Korean Peninsula while a communist-style
  government was installed in the north. The Korean War (1950-53) had
  US and other UN forces intervene to defend South Korea from North
  Korean attacks supported by the Chinese. An armistice was signed in
  1953 splitting the peninsula at the 38th parallel known as the DMZ.
  Thereafter, South Korea achieved rapid economic growth, with per
  capita income rising to 13 times the level of North Korea. In 1997,
  the nation suffered a severe financial crisis from which it
  continues to make a solid recovery. South Korea has also maintained
  its commitment to democratize its political processes. In June 2000,
  a historic first south-north summit took place between the south's
  President KIM Dae-jung and the north's leader KIM Chong-il. In
  December 2000, President KIM Dae-jung won the Noble Peace Prize for
  his lifeling committment to democracy and human rights in Asia. He
  is the first Korean to win a Nobel Prize.

Kuwait:
  Kuwait was attacked and overrun by Iraq on 2 August 1990.
  Following several weeks of aerial bombardment, a US-led UN coalition
  began a ground assault on 23 February 1991 that completely liberated
  Kuwait in four days. Kuwait has spent more than $5 billion to repair
  oil infrastructure damaged during 1990-91.

Kyrgyzstan:
  A Central Asian country of incredible natural beauty and
  proud nomadic traditions, Kyrgyzstan was annexed by Russia in 1864;
  it achieved independence from the Soviet Union in 1991. Current
  concerns include: privatization of state-owned enterprises,
  expansion of democracy and political freedoms, inter-ethnic
  relations, and terrorism.

Laos:
  In 1975 the communist Pathet Lao took control of the
  government, ending a six-century-old monarchy. Initial closer ties
  to Vietnam and socialization were replaced with a gradual return to
  private enterprise, an easing of foreign investment laws, and the
  admission into ASEAN in 1997.

Latvia:
  After a brief period of independence between the two World
  Wars, Latvia was annexed by the USSR in 1940. It reestablished its
  independence in 1991 following the breakup of the Soviet Union.
  Although the last Russian troops left in 1994, the status of the
  Russian minority (some 30% of the population) remains of concern to
  Moscow. Latvia continues to revamp its economy for eventual
  integration into various Western European political and economic
  institutions.

Lebanon:
  Lebanon has made progress toward rebuilding its political
  institutions and regaining its national sovereignty since 1991 and
  the end of the devastating 16-year civil war. Under the Ta'if Accord
  - the blueprint for national reconciliation - the Lebanese have
  established a more equitable political system, particularly by
  giving Muslims a greater say in the political process while
  institutionalizing sectarian divisions in the government. Since the
  end of the war, the Lebanese have conducted several successful
  elections, most of the militias have been weakened or disbanded, and
  the Lebanese Armed Forces (LAF) have extended central government
  authority over about two-thirds of the country. Hizballah, the
  radical Shi'a party, retains its weapons. Syria maintains about
  25,000 troops in Lebanon based mainly in Beirut, North Lebanon, and
  the Bekaa Valley. Syria's troop deployment was legitimized by the
  Arab League during Lebanon's civil war and in the Ta'if Accord.
  Damascus justifies its continued military presence in Lebanon by
  citing the continued weakness of the LAF, Beirut's requests, and the
  failure of the Lebanese Government to implement all of the
  constitutional reforms in the Ta'if Accord. Israel's withdrawal from
  its security zone in southern Lebanon in May of 2000, however, has
  emboldened some Lebanese Christians and Druze to demand that Syria
  withdraw its forces as well.

Lesotho:
  Basutoland was renamed the Kingdom of Lesotho upon
  independence from the UK in 1966. Constitutional government was
  restored in 1993 after 23 years of military rule.

Liberia:
  Seven years of civil strife were brought to a close in 1996
  when free and open presidential and legislative elections were held.
  President TAYLOR now holds strong executive power with no real
  political opposition. The years of fighting coupled with the flight
  of most businesses have disrupted formal economic activity. A still
  unsettled domestic security situation has slowed the process of
  rebuilding the social and economic structure of this war-torn
  country.

Libya:
  Since he took power in a 1969 military coup, Col. Muammar Abu
  Minyar al-QADHAFI has espoused his own political system - a
  combination of socialism and Islam - which he calls the Third
  International Theory. Viewing himself as a revolutionary leader, he
  used oil funds during the 1970s and 1980s to promote his ideology
  outside Libya, even supporting subversives and terrorists abroad to
  hasten the end of Marxism and capitalism. Libyan military adventures
  failed, e.g., the prolonged foray of Libyan troops into the Aozou
  Strip in northern Chad was finally repulsed in 1987. Libyan support
  for terrorism decreased after UN sanctions were imposed in 1992.
  Those sanctions were suspended in April 1999.

Liechtenstein:
  The Principality of Liechtenstein was established
  within the Holy Roman Empire in 1719; it became a sovereign state in
  1806. Until the end of World War I, it was closely tied to Austria,
  but the economic devastation caused by that conflict forced
  Liechtenstein to conclude a customs and monetary union with
  Switzerland. Since World War II (in which Liechtenstein remained
  neutral) the country's low taxes have spurred outstanding economic
  growth. However, shortcomings in banking regulatory oversight have
  resulted in concerns about the use of the financial institutions for
  money laundering.

Lithuania:
  Independent between the two World Wars, Lithuania was
  annexed by the USSR in 1940. On 11 March 1990, Lithuania became the
  first of the Soviet republics to declare its independence, but this
  proclamation was not generally recognized until September of 1991
  (following the abortive coup in Moscow). The last Russian troops
  withdrew in 1993. Lithuania subsequently has restructured its
  economy for eventual integration into Western European institutions.

Luxembourg:
  Founded in 963, Luxembourg became a grand duchy in 1815
  and an independent state under the Netherlands. It lost more than
  half of its territory to Belgium in 1839, but gained a larger
  measure of autonomy. Full independence was attained in 1867. Overrun
  by Germany in both World Wars, it ended its neutrality in 1948 when
  it entered into the Benelux Customs Union and when it joined NATO
  the following year. In 1957, Luxembourg became one of the six
  founding countries of the European Economic Community (later the
  European Union) and in 1999 it joined the euro currency area.

Macau:
  Colonized by the Portuguese in the 16th century, Macau was
  the first European settlement in the Far East. Pursuant to an
  agreement signed by China and Portugal on 13 April 1987, Macau
  became the Macau Special Administrative Region (SAR) of China on 20
  December 1999. China has promised that, under its "one country, two
  systems" formula, China's socialist economic system will not be
  practiced in Macau and that Macau will enjoy a high degree of
  autonomy in all matters except foreign and defense affairs.

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  International
  recognition of The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia's (FYROM)
  independence from Yugoslavia in 1991 was delayed by Greece's
  objection to the new state's use of what it considered a Hellenic
  name and symbols. Greece finally lifted its trade blockade in 1995,
  and the two countries agreed to normalize relations, despite
  continued disagreement over FYROM's use of "Macedonia." FYROM's
  large Albanian minority and the de facto independence of neighboring
  Kosovo continue to be sources of ethnic tension.

Madagascar:
  Formerly an independent kingdom, Madagascar became a
  French colony in 1886, but regained its independence in 1960. During
  1992-93, free presidential and National Assembly elections were
  held, ending 17 years of single-party rule. In 1997 in the second
  presidential race, Didier RATSIRAKA, the leader during the 1970s and
  1980s, was returned to the presidency.

Malawi:
  Established in 1891, the British protectorate of Nyasaland
  became the independent nation of Malawi in 1964. After three decades
  of one-party rule, the country held multiparty elections in 1994
  under a provisional constitution, which took full effect the
  following year. National multiparty elections were held again in
  1999.

Malaysia:
  Malaysia was created in 1963 through the merging of Malaya
  (independent in 1957) and the former British Singapore, both of
  which formed West Malaysia, and Sabah and Sarawak in north Borneo,
  which composed East Malaysia. The first three years of independence
  were marred by hostilities with Indonesia. Singapore separated from
  the union in 1965.

Maldives:
  The Maldives were long a sultanate, first under Dutch and
  then under British protection. They became a republic in 1968, three
  years after independence. Tourism and fishing are being developed on
  the archipelago.

Mali:
  The Sudanese Republic and Senegal became independent of France
  in 1960 as the Mali Federation. When Senegal withdrew after only a
  few months, the Sudanese Republic was renamed Mali. Rule by
  dictatorship was brought to a close in 1991 with a transitional
  government, and in 1992 when Mali's first democratic presidential
  election was held. Since his reelection in 1997, President KONARE
  has continued to push through political and economic reforms and to
  fight corruption. In 1999 he indicated he would not run for a third
  term.

Malta:
  Great Britain formally acquired possession of Malta in 1814.
  The island staunchly supported the UK through both World Wars and
  remained in the Commonwealth when it became independent in 1964. A
  decade later Malta became a republic. Over the last 15 years, the
  island has become a major freight transshipment point, financial
  center, and tourist destination. It is an official candidate for EU
  membership.

Man, Isle of:
  Part of the Norwegian Kingdom of the Hebrides until
  the 13th century when it was ceded to Scotland, the isle came under
  the British crown in 1765. Current concerns include reviving the
  almost extinct Manx Celtic language.

Marshall Islands:
  After almost four decades under US administration
  as the easternmost part of the UN Trust Territory of the Pacific
  Islands, the Marshall Islands attained independence in 1986 under a
  Compact of Free Association. Compensation claims continue as a
  result of US nuclear testing on some of the islands between 1947 and
  1962.

Martinique:
  Colonized by France in 1635, the island has subsequently
  remained a French possession except for three brief periods of
  foreign occupation.

Mauritania:
  Independent from France in 1960, Mauritania annexed the
  southern third of the former Spanish Sahara (now Western Sahara) in
  1976, but relinquished it after three years of raids by the
  Polisario guerrilla front seeking independence for the territory.
  Opposition parties were legalized and a new constitution approved in
  1991. Two multiparty presidential elections since then were widely
  seen as being flawed; Mauritania remains, in reality, a one-party
  state. The country continues to experience ethnic tensions between
  its black minority population and the dominant Maur (Arab-Berber)
  populace.

Mauritius:
  Discovered by the Portuguese in 1505, Mauritius was
  subsequently held by the Dutch, French, and British before
  independence was attained in 1968. A stable democracy with regular
  free elections and a positive human rights record, the country has
  attracted considerable foreign investment and has earned one of
  Africa's highest per capita incomes. Recent poor weather and
  declining sugar prices have slowed economic growth leading to some
  protests over standards of living in the Creole community.

Mayotte:
  Mayotte was ceded to France along with the other Comoros in
  1843. It was the only island in the archipelago that voted in 1974
  to retain its link with France and forgo independence.

Mexico:
  The site of advanced Amerindian civilizations, Mexico came
  under Spanish rule for three centuries before achieving independence
  early in the 19th century. A devaluation of the peso in late 1994
  threw Mexico into economic turmoil, triggering the worst recession
  in over half a century. The nation continues to make an impressive
  recovery. Ongoing economic and social concerns include low real
  wages, underemployment for a large segment of the population,
  inequitable income distribution, and few advancement opportunities
  for the largely Amerindian population in the impoverished southern
  states.

Micronesia, Federated States of:
  In 1979 the Federated States of
  Micronesia, a UN Trust Territory under US administration, adopted a
  constitution. In 1986 independence was attained under a Compact of
  Free Association with the United States. Present concerns include
  large-scale unemployment, overfishing, and overdependence on US aid.

Midway Islands:
  The US took formal possession of the islands in
  1867. The laying of the trans-Pacific cable, which passed through
  the islands, brought the first residents in 1903. Between 1935 and
  1947, Midway was used as a refueling stop for trans-Pacific flights.
  The US naval victory over a Japanese fleet off Midway in 1942 was
  one of the turning points of World War II. The islands continued to
  serve as a naval station until closed in 1993. Today the islands are
  a wildlife refuge open to the public.

Moldova:
  Formerly ruled by Romania, Moldova became part of the
  Soviet Union at the close of World War II. Although independent from
  the USSR since 1991, Russian forces have remained on Moldovan
  territory east of the Nistru (Dnister) River supporting the Slavic
  majority population, mostly Ukrainians and Russians, who have
  proclaimed a "Transnistria" republic. One of the poorest nations in
  Europe and plagued by a moribund economy, in 2001 Moldova became the
  first former Soviet state to elect a communist as its president.

Monaco:
  Economic development was spurred in the late 19th century
  with a railroad linkup to France and the opening of a casino. Since
  then, the principality's mild climate, splendid scenery, and
  gambling facilities have made Monaco world famous as a tourist and
  recreation center.

Mongolia:
  Long a province of China, Mongolia won its independence in
  1921 with Soviet backing. A communist regime was installed in 1924.
  During the early 1990s, the ex-communist Mongolian People's
  Revolutionary Party (MPRP) gradually yielded its monopoly on power.
  In 1996, the Democratic Union Coalition (DUC) defeated the MPRP in a
  national election. Over the next four years the Coalition
  implemented a number of key reforms to modernize the economy and
  institutionalize democratic reforms. However, the former communists
  were a strong opposition that stalled additional reforms and made
  implementation difficult. In 2000, the MPRP won 72 of the 76 seats
  in Parliament and completely reshuffled the government. While it
  continues many of the reform policies, the MPRP is focusing on
  social welfare and public order priorities.

Montserrat:
  Much of this island has been devastated and two-thirds
  of the population has fled abroad due to the eruption of the
  Soufriere Hills volcano that began on 18 July 1995.

Morocco:
  Morocco's long struggle for independence from France ended
  in 1956. The internationalized city of Tangier was turned over to
  the new country that same year. Morocco virtually annexed Western
  Sahara during the late 1970s, but final resolution on the status of
  the territory remains unresolved. Gradual political reforms in the
  1990s resulted in the establishment of a bicameral legislature in
  1997.

Mozambique:
  Almost five centuries as a Portuguese colony came to a
  close with independence in 1975. Large-scale emigration by whites,
  economic dependence on South Africa, a severe drought, and a
  prolonged civil war hindered the country's development. The ruling
  party formally abandoned Marxism in 1989, and a new constitution the
  following year provided for multiparty elections and a free market
  economy. A UN-negotiated peace agreement with rebel forces ended the
  fighting in 1992.

Namibia:
  South Africa occupied the German colony of Sud-West Afrika
  during World War I and administered it as a mandate until after
  World War II when it annexed the territory. In 1966 the Marxist
  South-West Africa People's Organization (SWAPO) guerrilla group
  launched a war of independence for the area that was soon named
  Namibia, but it was not until 1988 that South Africa agreed to end
  its administration in accordance with a UN peace plan for the entire
  region. Independence came in 1990.

Nauru:
  Nauru's phosphate deposits began to be mined early in the
  20th century by a German-British consortium; the island was occupied
  by Australian forces in World War I. Upon achieving independence in
  1968, Nauru became the smallest independent republic in the world;
  it joined the UN in 1999.

Navassa Island:
  This uninhabited island was claimed by the US in
  1857 for its guano, and mining took place between 1865 and 1898. The
  lighthouse, built in 1917, was shut down in 1996 and administration
  of Navassa Island transferred from the Coast Guard to the Department
  of the Interior. A 1998 scientific expedition to the island
  described it as a unique preserve of Caribbean biodiversity; the
  following year it became a National Wildlife Refuge.

Nepal:
  In 1951, the Nepalese monarch ended the century-old system of
  rule by hereditary premiers and instituted a cabinet system of
  government. Reforms in 1990 established a multiparty democracy
  within the framework of a constitutional monarchy. The refugee issue
  of some 100,000 Bhutanese in Nepal remains unresolved; 90% of these
  displaced persons are housed in seven United Nations Offices of the
  High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) camps.

Netherlands:
  The Kingdom of the Netherlands was formed in 1815. In
  1830 Belgium seceded and formed a separate kingdom. The Netherlands
  remained neutral in World War I but suffered a brutal invasion and
  occupation by Germany in World War II. A modern, industrialized
  nation, the Netherlands is also a large exporter of agricultural
  products. The country was a founding member of NATO and the EC, and
  participated in the introduction of the euro in 1999.

Netherlands Antilles:
  Once the center of the Caribbean slave trade,
  the island of Curacao was hard hit by the abolition of slavery in
  1863. Its prosperity (and that of neighboring Aruba) was restored in
  the early 20th century with the construction of oil refineries to
  service the newly discovered Venezuelan oil fields. The island of
  Sint Maarten is shared with France; its northern portion is named
  Saint Martin and is part of Guadeloupe.

New Caledonia:
  Settled by both Britain and France during the first
  half of the 19th century, the island was made a French possession in
  1853. It served as a penal colony for four decades after 1864.
  Agitation for independence during the 1980s and early 1990s seems to
  have dissipated.

New Zealand:
  The British colony of New Zealand became an independent
  dominion in 1907 and supported the UK militarily in both World Wars.
  New Zealand withdrew from a number of defense alliances during the
  1970s and 1980s. In recent years the government has sought to
  address longstanding native Maori grievances.

Nicaragua:
  Settled as a colony of Spain in the 1520s, Nicaragua
  gained its independence in 1821. Violent opposition to governmental
  manipulation and corruption spread to all classes by 1978 and
  resulted in a short-lived civil war that brought the Marxist
  Sandinista guerrillas to power in 1979. Nicaraguan aid to leftist
  rebels in El Salvador caused the US to sponsor anti-Sandinista
  contra guerrillas through much of the 1980s. Free elections in 1990
  and again in 1996 saw the Sandinistas defeated. The country has
  slowly rebuilt its economy during the 1990s, but was hard hit by
  Hurricane Mitch in 1998.

Niger:
  Not until 1993, 33 years after independence from France, did
  Niger hold its first free and open elections. A 1995 peace accord
  ended a five-year Tuareg insurgency in the north. Coups in 1996 and
  1999 were followed by the creation of a National Reconciliation
  Council that effected a transition to civilian rule in December 1999.

Nigeria:
  Following nearly 16 years of military rule, a new
  constitution was adopted in 1999 and a peaceful transition to
  civilian government completed. The new president faces the daunting
  task of rebuilding a petroleum-based economy, whose revenues have
  been squandered through corruption and mismanagement, and
  institutionalizing democracy. In addition, the OBASANJO
  administration must defuse longstanding ethnic and religious
  tensions, if it is to build a sound foundation for economic growth
  and political stability.

Niue:
  Niue's remoteness, as well as cultural and linguistic
  differences between its Polynesian inhabitants and those of the rest
  of the Cook Islands, have caused it to be separately administered.
  The population of the island continues to drop (from a peak of 5,200
  in 1966 to 2,100 in 2000) with substantial emigration to New Zealand.

Norfolk Island:
  Two British attempts at establishing the island as a
  penal colony (1788-1814 and 1825-55) were ultimately abandoned. In
  1856, the island was resettled by Pitcairn Islanders, descendants of
  the Bounty mutineers and their Tahitian companions.

Northern Mariana Islands:
  Under US administration as part of the UN
  Trust Territory of the Pacific, the people of the Northern Mariana
  Islands decided in the 1970s not to seek independence but instead to
  forge closer links with the US. Negotiations for territorial status
  began in 1972. A covenant to establish a commonwealth in political
  union with the US was approved in 1975. A new government and
  constitution went into effect in 1978.

Norway:
  Despite its neutrality, Norway was not able to avoid
  occupation by Germany in World War II. In 1949, neutrality was
  abandoned and Norway became a member of NATO. Discovery of oil and
  gas in adjacent waters in the late 1960s boosted Norway's economic
  fortunes. The current focus is on containing spending on the
  extensive welfare system and planning for the time when petroleum
  reserves are depleted. In referenda held in 1972 and 1994, Norway
  rejected joining the EU.

Oman:
  In 1970, QABOOS bin Said Al Said ousted his father and has
  ruled as sultan ever since. His extensive modernization program has
  opened the country to the outside world and has preserved a
  long-standing political and military relationship with the UK.
  Oman's moderate, independent foreign policy has sought to maintain
  good relations with all Middle Eastern countries.

Pacific Ocean:
  The Pacific Ocean is the largest of the world's five
  oceans (followed by the Atlantic Ocean, Indian Ocean, Southern
  Ocean, and Arctic Ocean). Strategically important access waterways
  include the La Perouse, Tsugaru, Tsushima, Taiwan, Singapore, and
  Torres Straits. The decision by the International Hydrographic
  Organization in the spring of 2000 to delimit a fifth ocean, the
  Southern Ocean, removed the portion of the Pacific Ocean south of 60
  degrees south.

Pakistan:
  The separation in 1947 of British India into the Muslim
  state of Pakistan (with two sections West and East) and largely
  Hindu India was never satisfactorily resolved. A third war between
  these countries in 1971 resulted in East Pakistan seceding and
  becoming the separate nation of Bangladesh. A dispute over the state
  of Kashmir is ongoing. In response to Indian nuclear weapons
  testing, Pakistan conducted its own tests in 1998.

Palau:
  After three decades as part of the UN Trust Territory of the
  Pacific under US administration, this westernmost cluster of the
  Caroline Islands opted for independent status in 1978 rather than
  join the Federated States of Micronesia. A Compact of Free
  Association with the US was approved in 1986, but not ratified until
  1993. It entered into force the following year when the islands
  gained their independence.

Palmyra Atoll:
  The Kingdom of Hawaii claimed the atoll in 1862, and
  the US included it among the Hawaiian Islands when it annexed the
  archipelago in 1898. The Hawaii Statehood Act of 1959 did not
  include Palmyra Atoll, which is now privately owned by the Nature
  Conservancy. This organization is managing the atoll as a nature
  preserve. The lagoons and surrounding waters within the 12 nautical
  mile US territorial seas were transferred to the US Fish and
  Wildlife service and designated a National Wildlife Refuge in
  January 2001.

Panama:
  With US backing, Panama seceded from Colombia in 1903 and
  promptly signed a treaty with the US allowing for the construction
  of a canal and US sovereignty over a strip of land on either side of
  the structure (the Panama Canal Zone). The Panama Canal was built by
  the US Army Corps of Engineers between 1904 and 1914. On 7 September
  1977, an agreement was signed for the complete transfer of the Canal
  from the US to Panama by the end of 1999. Certain portions of the
  Zone and increasing responsibility over the Canal were turned over
  in the intervening years. With US help, dictator Manuel NORIEGA was
  deposed in 1989. The entire Panama Canal, the area supporting the
  Canal, and remaining US military bases were turned over to Panama by
  or on 31 December 1999.

Papua New Guinea:
  The eastern half of the island of New Guinea -
  second largest in the world - was divided between Germany (north)
  and the UK (south) in 1885. The latter area was transferred to
  Australia in 1902, which occupied the northern portion during World
  War I and continued to administer the combined areas until
  independence in 1975. A nine-year secessionist revolt on the island
  of Bougainville ended in 1997, after claiming some 20,000 lives.

Paracel Islands:
  This archipelago is surrounded by productive
  fishing grounds and potentially large oil reserves. In 1932, French
  Indochina annexed the islands and set up a weather station on
  Prattle Island; maintenance was continued by its successor Vietnam.
  China has occupied the Paracel Islands since 1974, when its troops
  captured a South Vietnamese garrison occupying the western islands.
  However, the islands are still claimed by Vietnam and Taiwan.

Paraguay:
  In the disastrous War of the Triple Alliance (1865-70),
  Paraguay lost two-thirds of all adult males and much of its
  territory. It stagnated economically for the next half century. In
  the Chaco War of 1932-35, large, economically important areas were
  won from Bolivia. The 35-year military dictatorship of Alfredo
  STROESSNER was overthrown in 1989, and, despite a marked increase in
  political infighting in recent years, relatively free and regular
  presidential elections have been held since then.

Peru:
  After a dozen years of military rule, Peru returned to
  democratic leadership in 1980. In recent years, bold reform programs
  and significant progress in curtailing guerrilla activity and drug
  trafficking have resulted in solid economic growth.

Philippines:
  The Philippines were ceded by Spain to the US in 1898
  following the Spanish-American War. They attained their independence
  in 1946 after being occupied by the Japanese in World War II. The
  21-year rule of Ferdinand MARCOS ended in 1986 when a widespread
  popular rebellion forced him into exile. In 1992, the US closed down
  its last military bases on the islands. The Philippines has had two
  electoral presidential transitions since Marcos' removal by "people
  power." In January 2001, the Supreme Court declared Joseph ESTRADA
  unable to rule in view of mass resignations from his government and
  administered the oath of office to Vice President Gloria
  MACAPAGAL-ARROYO as his constitutional successor. The government
  continues to struggle with ongoing Muslim insurgencies in the south.

Pitcairn Islands:
  Pitcairn Island was discovered in 1767 by the
  British and settled in 1790 by the Bounty mutineers and their
  Tahitian companions. Pitcairn was the first Pacific island to become
  a British colony (in 1838) and today remains the last vestige of
  that empire in the South Pacific. Outmigration, primarily to New
  Zealand, has thinned the population from a peak of 233 in 1937 to
  about 50 today.

Poland:
  Poland gained its independence in 1918 only to be overrun by
  Germany and the Soviet Union in World War II. It became a Soviet
  satellite country following the war, but one that was comparatively
  tolerant and progressive. Labor turmoil in 1980 led to the formation
  of the independent trade union "Solidarity" that over time became a
  political force and by 1990 had swept parliamentary elections and
  the presidency. A "shock therapy" program during the early 1990s
  enabled the country to transform its economy into one of the most
  robust in Central Europe, boosting hopes for acceptance to the EU.
  Poland joined the NATO alliance in 1999.

Portugal:
  Following its heyday as a world power during the 15th and
  16th centuries, Portugal lost much of its wealth and status with the
  destruction of Lisbon in a 1755 earthquake, occupation during the
  Napoleonic Wars, and the independence in 1822 of Brazil as a colony.
  A 1910 revolution deposed the monarchy; for most of the next six
  decades repressive governments ran the country. In 1974, a left-wing
  military coup installed broad democratic reforms. The following year
  Portugal granted independence to all of its African colonies.
  Portugal entered the EC in 1985.

Puerto Rico:
  Discovered by Columbus in 1493, the island was ceded by
  Spain to the US in 1898 following the Spanish-American War. A
  popularly elected governor has served since 1948. In plebiscites
  held in 1967 and 1993, voters chose to retain commonwealth status.

Qatar:
  Ruled by the Al Thani family since the mid-1800s, Qatar
  transformed itself from a poor British protectorate noted mainly for
  pearling into an independent state with significant oil and natural
  gas revenues. During the late 1980s and early 1990s, the Qatari
  economy was crippled by a continuous siphoning off of petroleum
  revenues by the amir who had ruled the country since 1972. He was
  overthrown by his son, the current Amir HAMAD bin Khalifa Al Thani,
  in a bloodless coup in 1995. In 2001, Qatar resolved its
  longstanding border disputes with both Bahrain and Saudi Arabia. Oil
  and natural gas revenues enable Qatar to have a per capita income
  not far below the leading industrial countries of Western Europe.

Reunion:
  The Portuguese discovered the uninhabited island in 1513.
  From the 17th to the 19th centuries, French immigration supplemented
  by influxes of Africans, Chinese, Malays, and Malabar Indians gave
  the island its ethnic mix. The opening of the Suez Canal in 1869
  cost the island its importance as a stopover on the East Indies
  trade route.

Romania:
  Soviet occupation following World War II led to the
  formation of a communist "peoples republic" in 1947 and the
  abdication of the king. The decades-long rule of President Nicolae
  CEAUSESCU became increasingly draconian through the 1980s. He was
  overthrown and executed in late 1989. Former communists dominated
  the government until 1996 when they were swept from power. Much
  economic restructuring remains to be carried out before Romania can
  achieve its hope of joining the EU.

Russia:
  The defeat of the Russian Empire in World War I led to the
  seizure of power by the communists and the formation of the USSR.
  The brutal rule of Josef STALIN (1924-53) strengthened Russian
  dominance of the Soviet Union at a cost of tens of millions of
  lives. The Soviet economy and society stagnated in the following
  decades until General Secretary Mikhail GORBACHEV (1985-91)
  introduced glasnost (openness) and perestroika (restructuring) in an
  attempt to modernize communism, but his initiatives inadvertently
  released forces that by December 1991 splintered the USSR into 15
  independent republics. Since then, Russia has struggled in its
  efforts to build a democratic political system and market economy to
  replace the strict social, political, and economic controls of the
  communist period.

Rwanda:
  In 1959, three years before independence, the majority
  ethnic group, the Hutus overthrew the ruling Tutsi king. Over the
  next several years thousands of Tutsis were killed, and some 150,000
  driven into exile in neighboring countries. The children of these
  exiles later formed a rebel group, the Rwandan Patriotic Front (RPF)
  and began a civil war in 1990. The war, along with several political
  and economic upheavals, exacerbated ethnic tensions culminating in
  April 1994 in the genocide of roughly 800,000 Tutsis and moderate
  Hutus. The Tutsi rebels defeated the Hutu regime and ended the
  killing in July 1994, but approximately 2 million Hutu refugees -
  many fearing Tutsi retribution - fled to neighboring Burundi,
  Tanzania, Uganda, and Zaire, now called the Democratic Republic of
  the Congo (DROC). Since then most of the refugees have returned to
  Rwanda. Despite substantial international assistance and political
  reforms - including Rwanda's first local elections in March 1999 -
  the country continues to struggle to boost investment and
  agricultural output and to foster reconciliation. A series of
  massive population displacements, a nagging Hutu extremist
  insurgency, and Rwandan involvement in two wars over the past four
  years in the neighboring DROC continue to hinder Rwanda's efforts.

Saint Helena:
  Uninhabited when first discovered by the Portuguese in
  1502, St. Helena was garrisoned by the British during the 17th
  century. It acquired fame as the place of Napoleon BONAPARTE's
  exile, from 1815 until his death in 1821, but its importance as a
  port of call declined after the opening of the Suez Canal in 1869.
  Ascension Island is the site of a US Air Force auxiliary airfield;
  Gough Island has a meteorological station.

Saint Kitts and Nevis:
  First settled by the British in 1623, the
  islands became an associated state with full internal autonomy in
  1967. The island of Anguilla rebelled and was allowed to secede in
  1971. Saint Kitts and Nevis achieved independence in 1983. In 1998,
  a vote in Nevis on a referendum to separate from Saint Kitts fell
  short of the two-thirds majority needed.

Saint Lucia:
  The island, with its fine natural harbor at Castries,
  was contested between England and France throughout the 17th and
  early 18th centuries (changing possession 14 times); it was finally
  ceded to the UK in 1814. Self-government was granted in 1967 and
  independence in 1979.

Saint Pierre and Miquelon:
  First settled by the French in the early
  17th century, the islands represent the sole remaining vestige of
  France's once vast North American possessions.

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:
  Disputed between France and Great
  Britain in the 18th century, Saint Vincent was ceded to the latter
  in 1783. Autonomy was granted in 1969, and independence in 1979.

Samoa:
  New Zealand occupied the German protectorate of Western Samoa
  at the outbreak of World War I in 1914. It continued to administer
  the islands as a mandate and then as a trust territory until 1962,
  when the islands became the first Polynesian nation to reestablish
  independence in the 20th century. The country dropped the "Western"
  from its name in 1997.

San Marino:
  The third smallest state in Europe (after The Holy See
  and Monaco) also claims to be the world's oldest republic. According
  to tradition, it was founded by a Christian stonemason named Marinus
  in 301 A.D. San Marino's foreign policy is aligned with that of
  Italy. Social and political trends in the republic also track
  closely with those of its larger neighbor.

Sao Tome and Principe:
  Discovered and claimed by Portugal in the
  late 15th century, the islands' sugar-based economy gave way to
  coffee and cocoa in the 19th century - all grown with plantation
  slave labor, a form of which lingered into the 20th century.
  Although independence was achieved in 1975, democratic reforms were
  not instituted until the late 1980s. The first free elections were
  held in 1991.

Saudi Arabia:
  In 1902 Abdul al-Aziz Ibn SAUD captured Riyadh and set
  out on a 30-year campaign to unify the Arabian peninsula. In the
  1930s, the discovery of oil transformed the country. Following
  Iraq's invasion of Kuwait in 1990, Saudi Arabia accepted the Kuwaiti
  royal family and 400,000 refugees while allowing Western and Arab
  troops to deploy on its soil for the liberation of Kuwait the
  following year. A burgeoning population, aquifer depletion, and an
  economy largely dependent on petroleum output and prices are all
  major governmental concerns.

Senegal:
  Independent from France in 1960, Senegal joined with The
  Gambia to form the nominal confederation of Senegambia in 1982.
  However, the envisaged integration of the two countries was never
  carried out, and the union was dissolved in 1989. Despite peace
  talks, a southern separatist group sporadically has clashed with
  government forces since 1982. Senegal has a long history of
  participating in international peacekeeping.

Seychelles:
  A lengthy struggle between France and Great Britain for
  the islands ended in 1814, when they were ceded to the latter.
  Independence came in 1976. Socialist rule was brought to a close
  with a new constitution and free elections in 1993.

Sierra Leone:
  Since 1991, civil war between the government and the
  Revolutionary United Front (RUF) has resulted in tens of thousands
  of deaths and the displacement of more than 2 million people (well
  over one-third of the population) many of whom are now refugees in
  neighboring countries. A peace agreement, signed in July 1999,
  collapsed in May 2000 after the RUF took over 500 UN peacekeepers
  hostage. The RUF stepped up attacks on Guinea in December 2000,
  despite a cease-fire that it signed with the Freetown government one
  month earlier. As of late 2000, up to 13,000 UN peacekeepers were
  protecting the capital and key towns in the south. A UK force of 750
  was helping to reinforce security and train the Sierra Leone army.

Singapore:
  Founded as a British trading colony in 1819, Singapore
  joined Malaysia in 1963, but withdrew two years later and became
  independent. It subsequently became one of the world's most
  prosperous countries, with strong international trading links (its
  port is one of the world's busiest) and with per capita GDP above
  that of the leading nations of Western Europe.

Slovakia:
  In 1918 the Slovaks joined the closely related Czechs to
  form Czechoslovakia. Following the chaos of World War II,
  Czechoslovakia became a communist nation within Soviet-ruled Eastern
  Europe. Soviet influence collapsed in 1989 and Czechoslovakia once
  more became free. The Slovaks and the Czechs agreed to separate
  peacefully on 1 January 1993. Historic, political, and geographic
  factors have caused Slovakia to experience more difficulty in
  developing a modern market economy than some of its Central European
  neighbors.

Slovenia:
  In 1918 the Slovenes joined the Serbs and Croats in
  forming a new nation, renamed Yugoslavia in 1929. After World War
  II, Slovenia became a republic of the renewed Yugoslavia, which
  though communist, distanced itself from Moscow's rule. Dissatisfied
  with the exercise of power of the majority Serbs, the Slovenes
  succeeded in establishing their independence in 1991. Historical
  ties to Western Europe, a strong economy, and a stable democracy
  make Slovenia a leading candidate for future membership in the EU
  and NATO.

Solomon Islands:
  The UK established a protectorate over the Solomon
  Islands in the 1890s. Some of the bitterest fighting of World War II
  occurred on these islands. Self-government was achieved in 1976 and
  independence two years later. Current issues include government
  deficits, deforestation, and malaria control.

Somalia:
  A SIAD BARRE regime was ousted in January 1991; turmoil,
  factional fighting, and anarchy followed for nine years. In May of
  1991, northern clans declared an independent Republic of Somaliland
  which now includes the administrative regions of Awdal, Woqooyi
  Galbeed, Togdheer, Sanaag, and Sool. Although not recognized by any
  government, this entity has maintained a stable existence, aided by
  the overwhelming dominance of the ruling clan and economic
  infrastructure left behind by British, Russian, and American
  military assistance programs. The regions of Bari and Nugaal
  comprise a neighboring self-declared Republic of Puntland, which has
  also made strides towards reconstructing legitimate, representative
  government. Beginning in 1993, a two-year UN humanitarian effort
  (primarily in the south) was able to alleviate famine conditions,
  but when the UN withdrew in 1995, having suffered significant
  casualties, order still had not been restored. A Transitional
  National Government (TNG) was created in October 2000 in Arta,
  Djibouti which was attended by a broad representation of Somali
  clans. The TNG has a three-year mandate to create a permanent
  national Somali government. The TNG does not recognize Somaliland or
  Puntland as independent republics but so far has been unable to
  reunite them with the unstable regions in the south; numerous
  warlords and factions are still fighting for control of Mogadishu
  and the other southern regions.

South Africa:
  After the British seized the Cape of Good Hope area in
  1806, many of the Dutch settlers (the Boers) trekked north to found
  their own republics. The discovery of diamonds (1867) and gold
  (1886) spurred wealth and immigration and intensified the
  subjugation of the native inhabitants. The Boers resisted British
  encroachments, but were defeated in the Boer War (1899-1902). The
  resulting Union of South Africa operated under a policy of apartheid
  - the separate development of the races. The 1990s brought an end to
  apartheid politically and ushered in black majority rule.

South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands:
  The islands lie
  approximately 1,000 km east of the Falkland Islands. Grytviken, on
  South Georgia, was a 19th and early 20th century whaling station.
  The famed explorer Ernest SHACKLETON stopped there in 1914 en route
  to his ill-fated attempt to cross Antarctica on foot. He returned
  some 20 months later with a few companions in a small boat and
  arranged a successful rescue for the rest of his crew, stranded off
  the Antarctic Peninsula. He died in 1922 on a subsequent expedition
  and is buried in Grytviken. Today, the station houses a small
  military garrison. The islands have large bird and seal populations
  and, recognizing the importance of preserving the marine stocks in
  adjacent waters, the UK, in 1993, extended the exclusive fishing
  zone from 12 miles to 200 miles around each island.

Southern Ocean:
  A decision by the International Hydrographic
  Organization in the spring of 2000 delimited a fifth world ocean -
  the Southern Ocean - from the southern portions of the Atlantic
  Ocean, Indian Ocean, and Pacific Ocean. The Southern Ocean extends
  from the coast of Antarctica north to 60 degrees south latitude
  which coincides with the Antarctic Treaty Limit. The Southern Ocean
  is now the fourth largest of the world's five oceans (after the
  Pacific Ocean, Atlantic Ocean, and Indian Ocean, but larger than the
  Arctic Ocean).

Spain:
  Spain's powerful world empire of the 16th and 17th centuries
  ultimately yielded command of the seas to England. Subsequent
  failure to embrace the mercantile and industrial revolutions caused
  the country to fall behind Britain, France, and Germany in economic
  and political power. Spain remained neutral in World Wars I and II,
  but suffered through a devastating Civil War (1936-39). In the
  second half of the 20th century, it has played a catch-up role in
  the western international community. Continuing concerns are
  large-scale unemployment and the Basque separatist movement.

Spratly Islands:
  Rich fishing grounds and the potential for gas and
  oil deposits have caused this archipelago to be claimed in its
  entirety by China, Taiwan, and Vietnam, while portions are claimed
  by Malaysia and the Philippines. All five parties have occupied
  certain islands or reefs, and occasional clashes have occurred
  between Chinese and Vietnamese naval forces

Sri Lanka:
  Occupied by the Portuguese in the 16th century and the
  Dutch in the 17th century, the island was ceded to the British in
  1802. As Ceylon it became independent in 1948; its name was changed
  in 1972. Tensions between the Sinhalese majority and Tamil
  separatists erupted in violence in the mid-1980s. Tens of thousands
  have died in an ethnic war that continues to fester.

Sudan:
  Military dictatorships promulgating an Islamic government
  have mostly run the country since independence from the UK in 1956.
  Over the past two decades, a civil war pitting black Christians and
  animists in the south against the Arab-Muslims of the north has cost
  at least 1.5 million lives in war- and famine-related deaths, as
  well as the displacement of millions of others.

Suriname:
  Independence from the Netherlands was granted in 1975.
  Five years later the civilian government was replaced by a military
  regime that soon declared a socialist republic. It continued to rule
  through a succession of nominally civilian administrations until
  1987, when international pressure finally brought about a democratic
  election. In 1989, the military overthrew the civilian government,
  but a democratically elected government returned to power in 1991.

Svalbard:
  First discovered by the Norwegians in the 12th century,
  the islands served as an international whaling base during the 17th
  and 18th centuries. Norway's sovereignty was recognized in 1920;
  five years later it officially took over the territory.

Swaziland:
  Autonomy for the Swazis of southern Africa was guaranteed
  by the British in the late 19th century; independence was granted
  1968. Student and labor unrest during the 1990s have pressured the
  monarchy (one of the oldest on the continent) to grudgingly allow
  political reform and greater democracy.

Sweden:
  A military power during the 17th century, Sweden has not
  participated in any war in almost two centuries. An armed neutrality
  was preserved in both World Wars. Sweden's long-successful economic
  formula of a capitalist system interlarded with substantial welfare
  elements has recently been undermined by high unemployment, rising
  maintenance costs, and a declining position in world markets.
  Indecision over the country's role in the political and economic
  integration of Europe caused Sweden not to join the EU until 1995,
  and to forgo the introduction of the euro in 1999.

Switzerland:
  Switzerland's independence and neutrality have long
  been honored by the major European powers and Switzerland was not
  involved in either of the two World Wars. The political and economic
  integration of Europe over the past half century, as well as
  Switzerland's role in many UN and international organizations, may
  be rendering obsolete the country's concern for neutrality.

Syria:
  Following the breakup of the Ottoman Empire during World War
  I, Syria was administered by the French until independence in 1946.
  In the 1967 Arab-Israeli War, Syria lost the Golan Heights to
  Israel. Since 1976, Syrian troops have been stationed in Lebanon,
  ostensibly in a peacekeeping capacity. In recent years, Syria and
  Israel have held occasional peace talks over the return of the Golan
  Heights.

Tajikistan:
  Tajikistan has experienced three changes in government
  and a five-year civil war since it gained independence in 1991 from
  the USSR. A peace agreement among rival factions was signed in 1997,
  and implementation reportedly completed by late 1999. Part of the
  agreement required the legalization of opposition political parties
  prior to the 1999 elections, which occurred, but such parties have
  made little progress in successful participation in government.
  Random criminal and political violence in the country remains a
  complication impairing Tajikistan's ability to engage
  internationally.

Tanzania:
  Shortly after independence, Tanganyika and Zanzibar merged
  to form the nation of Tanzania in 1964. One-party rule came to an
  end in 1995 with the first democratic elections held in the country
  since the 1970s. Zanzibar's semi-autonomous status and popular
  opposition have led to two contentious elections since 1995, which
  the ruling party won despite international observers' claims of
  voting irregularities.

Thailand:
  A unified Thai kingdom was established in the mid-14th
  century; it was known as Siam until 1939. Thailand is the only
  southeast Asian country never to have been taken over by a European
  power. A bloodless revolution in 1932 led to a constitutional
  monarchy. In alliance with Japan during World War II, Thailand
  became a US ally following the conflict.

Togo:
  French Togoland became Togo in 1960. General Gnassingbe
  EYADEMA, installed as military ruler in 1967, is Africa's
  longest-serving head of state. Despite the facade of multiparty
  elections that resulted in EYADEMA's victory in 1993, the government
  continues to be dominated by the military. In addition, Togo has
  come under fire from international organizations for human rights
  abuses and is plagued by political unrest. Most bilateral and
  multilateral aid to Togo remains frozen.

Tokelau:
  Originally settled by Polynesian emigrants from surrounding
  island groups, the Tokelau Islands were made a British protectorate
  in 1889. They were transferred to New Zealand administration in
  1925. According to a UN report, these low-lying islands will
  disappear in the 21st century, if global warming continues to raise
  sea levels.

Tonga:
  The archipelago of "The Friendly Islands" was united into a
  Polynesian kingdom in 1845. It became a constitutional monarchy in
  1875 and a British protectorate in 1900. Tonga acquired its
  independence in 1970 and became a member of the Commonwealth of
  Nations. It remains the only monarchy in the Pacific.

Trinidad and Tobago:
  The islands came under British control in the
  19th century; independence was granted in 1962. The country is one
  of the most prosperous in the Caribbean thanks largely to petroleum
  and natural gas production and processing. Tourism, mostly in
  Tobago, is targeted for expansion and is growing.

Tromelin Island:
  First explored by the French in 1776, the island
  came under the jurisdiction of Reunion in 1814. At present, it
  serves as a sea turtle sanctuary and is the site of an important
  meteorological station.

Tunisia:
  Following independence from France in 1956, President Habib
  BOURGIUBA established a strict one-party state. He dominated the
  country for 31 years, repressing Islamic fundamentalism and
  establishing rights for women unmatched by any other Arab nation. In
  recent years, Tunisia has taken a moderate, non-aligned stance in
  its foreign relations. Domestically, it has sought to diffuse rising
  pressure for a more open political society.

Turkey:
  Turkey was created in 1923 from the Turkish remnants of the
  Ottoman Empire. Soon thereafter the country instituted secular laws
  to replace traditional religious fiats. In 1945 Turkey joined the UN
  and in 1952 it became a member of NATO. Turkey occupied the northern
  portion of Cyprus in 1974 to prevent a Greek takeover of the island;
  relations between the two countries remain strained. Periodic
  military offensives against Kurdish separatists have dislocated part
  of the population in southeast Turkey and have drawn international
  condemnation.

Turkmenistan:
  Annexed by Russia between 1865 and 1885, Turkmenistan
  became a Soviet republic in 1925. It achieved its independence upon
  the dissolution of the USSR in 1991. President NIYAZOV retains
  absolute control over the country and opposition is not tolerated.
  Extensive hydrocarbon/natural gas reserves could prove a boon to
  this underdeveloped country if extraction and delivery projects can
  be worked out.

Turks and Caicos Islands:
  The islands were part of the UK's Jamaican
  colony until 1962, when they assumed the status of a separate crown
  colony upon Jamaica's independence. The governor of The Bahamas
  oversaw affairs from 1965 to 1973. With Bahamian independence, the
  islands received a separate governor in 1973. Although independence
  was agreed upon for 1982, the policy was reversed and the islands
  are presently a British overseas territory.

Tuvalu:
  In 1974, ethnic differences within the British colony of the
  Gilbert and Ellice Islands caused the Polynesians of the Ellice
  Islands to vote for separation from the Micronesians of the Gilbert
  Islands. The following year, the Ellice Islands became the separate
  British colony of Tuvalu. Independence was granted in 1978. In 2000,
  Tuvalu negotiated a contract leasing its Internet domain name ".tv"
  for $50 million in royalties over the next dozen years.

Uganda:
  Uganda achieved independence from the UK in 1962. The
  dictatorial regime of Idi AMIN (1971-79) was responsible for the
  deaths of some 300,000 opponents; guerrilla war and human rights
  abuses under Milton OBOTE (1980-85) claimed another 100,000 lives.
  During the 1990s the government promulgated non-party presidential
  and legislative elections.

Ukraine:
  Richly endowed in natural resources, Ukraine has been
  fought over and subjugated for centuries; its 20th-century struggle
  for liberty is not yet complete. A short-lived independence from
  Russia (1917-1920) was followed by brutal Soviet rule that
  engineered two artificial famines (1921-22 and 1932-33) in which
  over 8 million died, and World War II, in which German and Soviet
  armies were responsible for some 7 million more deaths. Although
  independence was attained in 1991 with the dissolution of the USSR,
  true freedom remains elusive as many of the former Soviet elite
  remain entrenched, stalling efforts at economic reform,
  privatization, and civic liberties.

United Arab Emirates:
  The Trucial States of the Persian Gulf coast
  granted the UK control of their defense and foreign affairs in 19th
  century treaties. In 1971, six of these states - Abu Zaby, 'Ajman,
  Al Fujayrah, Ash Shariqah, Dubayy, and Umm al Qaywayn - merged to
  form the UAE. They were joined in 1972 by Ra's al Khaymah. The UAE's
  per capita GDP is not far below those of the leading West European
  nations. Its generosity with oil revenues and its moderate foreign
  policy stance have allowed it to play a vital role in the affairs of
  the region.

United Kingdom:
  Great Britain, the dominant industrial and maritime
  power of the 19th century, played a leading role in developing
  parliamentary democracy and in advancing literature and science. At
  its zenith, the British Empire stretched over one-fourth of the
  earth's surface. The first half of the 20th century saw the UK's
  strength seriously depleted in two World Wars. The second half
  witnessed the dismantling of the Empire and the UK rebuilding itself
  into a modern and prosperous European nation. As one of five
  permanent members of the UN Security Council, a founding member of
  NATO, and of the Commonwealth, the UK pursues a global approach to
  foreign policy; it currently is weighing the degree of its
  integration with continental Europe. A member of the EU, it chose to
  remain outside of the European Monetary Union for the time being.
  Constitutional reform is also a significant issue in the UK.
  Regional assemblies with varying degrees of power opened in
  Scotland, Wales, and Northern Ireland in 1999.

United States:
  The United States became the world's first modern
  democracy after its break with Great Britain (1776) and the adoption
  of a constitution (1789). During the 19th century, many new states
  were added to the original 13 as the nation expanded across the
  North American continent and acquired a number of overseas
  possessions. The two most traumatic experiences in the nation's
  history were the Civil War (1861-65) and the Great Depression of the
  1930s. Buoyed by victories in World Wars I and II and the end of the
  Cold War in 1991, the US remains the world's most powerful
  nation-state. The economy is marked by steady growth, low
  unemployment and inflation, and rapid advances in technology.

Uruguay:
  A violent Marxist urban guerrilla movement, the Tupamaros,
  launched in the late 1960s, led Uruguay's president to agree to
  military control of his administration in 1973. By the end of the
  year the rebels had been crushed, but the military continued to
  expand its hold throughout the government. Civilian rule was not
  restored until 1985. Uruguay's political and labor conditions are
  among the freest on the continent.

Uzbekistan:
  Russia conquered Uzbekistan in the late 19th century.
  Stiff resistance to the Red Army after World War I was eventually
  suppressed and a socialist republic set up in 1925. During the
  Soviet era, intensive production of "white gold" (cotton) and grain
  led to overuse of agrochemicals and the depletion of water supplies,
  which have left the land poisoned and the Aral Sea and certain
  rivers half dry. Independent since 1991, the country seeks to
  gradually lessen its dependence on agriculture while developing its
  mineral and petroleum reserves. Current concerns include insurgency
  by Islamic militants based in Tajikistan and Afghanistan, a
  non-convertible currency, and the curtailment of human rights and
  democratization.

Vanuatu:
  The British and French who settled the New Hebrides in the
  19th century, agreed in 1906 to an Anglo-French Condominium, which
  administered the islands until independence in 1980.

Venezuela:
  Venezuela was one of the three countries that emerged
  from the collapse of Gran Colombia in 1830 (the others being
  Colombia and Ecuador). For most of the first half of the 20th
  century, Venezuela was ruled by generally benevolent military
  strongmen, who promoted the oil industry and allowed for some social
  reforms. Democratically elected governments have held sway since
  1959. Current concerns include: drug-related conflicts along the
  Colombian border, increasing internal drug consumption,
  overdependence on the petroleum industry with its price
  fluctuations, and irresponsible mining operations that are
  endangering the rain forest and indigenous peoples.

Vietnam:
  France occupied all of Vietnam by 1884. Independence was
  declared after World War II, but the French continued to rule until
  1954 when they were defeated by communist forces under Ho Chi MINH,
  who took control of the north. US economic and military aid to South
  Vietnam grew through the 1960s in an attempt to bolster the
  government, but US armed forces were withdrawn following a
  cease-fire agreement in 1973. Two years later North Vietnamese
  forces overran the south. Economic reconstruction of the reunited
  country has proven difficult as aging Communist Party leaders have
  only grudgingly initiated reforms necessary for a free market.

Virgin Islands:
  During the 17th century, the archipelago was divided
  into two territorial units, one English and the other Danish.
  Sugarcane, produced by slave labor, drove the islands' economy
  during the 18th and early 19th centuries. In 1917, the US purchased
  the Danish portion, which had been in economic decline since the
  abolition of slavery in 1848.

Wake Island:
  The US annexed Wake Island in 1899 for a cable station.
  An important air and naval base was constructed in 1940-41. In
  December 1941 the island was captured by the Japanese and held until
  the end of World War II. In subsequent years, Wake was developed as
  a stopover and refueling site for military and commercial aircraft
  transiting the Pacific. Since 1974, the island's airstrip has been
  used by the US military and some commercial cargo planes, as well as
  for emergency landings. There are over 700 landings a year on the
  island.

Wallis and Futuna:
  Although discovered by the Dutch and the British
  in the 17th and 18th centuries, it was the French who declared a
  protectorate over the islands in 1842. In 1959, the inhabitants of
  the islands voted to become a French overseas territory.

West Bank:
  The Israel-PLO Declaration of Principles on Interim
  Self-Government Arrangements (the DOP), signed in Washington on 13
  September 1993, provided for a transitional period not exceeding
  five years of Palestinian interim self-government in the Gaza Strip
  and the West Bank. Under the DOP, Israel agreed to transfer certain
  powers and responsibilities to the Palestinian Authority, which
  includes the Palestinian Legislative Council elected in January
  1996, as part of interim self-governing arrangements in the West
  Bank and Gaza Strip. A transfer of powers and responsibilities for
  the Gaza Strip and Jericho took place pursuant to the Israel-PLO 4
  May 1994 Cairo Agreement on the Gaza Strip and the Jericho Area and
  in additional areas of the West Bank pursuant to the Israel-PLO 28
  September 1995 Interim Agreement, the Israel-PLO 15 January 1997
  Protocol Concerning Redeployment in Hebron, the Israel-PLO 23
  October 1998 Wye River Memorandum, and the 4 September 1999 Sharm
  el-Sheikh Agreement. The DOP provides that Israel will retain
  responsibility during the transitional period for external security
  and for internal security and public order of settlements and
  Israeli citizens. Permanent status is to be determined through
  direct negotiations, which resumed in September 1999 after a
  three-year hiatus. An intifadah broke out in September 2000; the
  resulting widespread violence in the West Bank and Gaza Strip,
  Israel's military response, and instability in the Palestinian
  Authority are undermining progress toward a permanent settlement.

Western Sahara:
  Morocco virtually annexed the northern two-thirds of
  Western Sahara (formerly Spanish Sahara) in 1976, and the rest of
  the territory in 1979, following Mauritania's withdrawal. A
  guerrilla war with the Polisario Front contesting Rabat's
  sovereignty ended in a 1991 cease-fire; a referendum on final status
  has been repeatedly postponed and is not expected to occur until at
  least 2002.

World:
  Globally, the 20th century was marked by: (a) two devastating
  world wars; (b) the Great Depression of the 1930s; (c) the end of
  vast colonial empires; (d) rapid advances in science and technology,
  from the first airplane flight at Kitty Hawk, North Carolina (US) to
  the landing on the moon; (e) the Cold War between the Western
  alliance and the Warsaw Pact nations; (f) a sharp rise in living
  standards in North America, Europe, and Japan; (g) increased
  concerns about the environment, including loss of forests, shortages
  of energy and water, the drop in biological diversity, and air
  pollution; (h) the onset of the AIDS epidemic; and (i) the ultimate
  emergence of the US as the only world superpower. The planet's
  population continues to explode: from 1 billion in 1820, to 2
  billion in 1930, 3 billion in 1960, 4 billion in 1974, 5 billion in
  1988, and 6 billion in 2000. For the 21st century, the continued
  exponential growth in science and technology raises both hopes
  (e.g., advances in medicine) and fears (e.g., development of even
  more lethal weapons of war).

Yemen:
  North Yemen became independent of the Ottoman Empire in 1918.
  The British, who had set up a protectorate area around the southern
  port of Aden in the 19th century, withdrew in 1967 from what became
  South Yemen. Three years later, the southern government adopted a
  Marxist orientation. The massive exodus of hundreds of thousands of
  Yemenis from the south to the north contributed to two decades of
  hostility between the states. The two countries were formally
  unified as the Republic of Yemen in 1990. A southern secessionist
  movement in 1994 was quickly subdued. In 2000, Saudi Arabia and
  Yemen agreed to a delimitation of their border.

Yugoslavia:
  The Kingdom of Serbs, Croats, and Slovenes was formed in
  1918; its name was changed to Yugoslavia in 1929. Occupation by Nazi
  Germany in 1941 was resisted by various partisan bands that fought
  themselves as well as the invaders. The group headed by Marshal TITO
  took full control upon German expulsion in 1945. Although communist
  in name, his new government successfully steered its own path
  between the Warsaw Pact nations and the West for the next four and a
  half decades. In the early 1990s, post-TITO Yugoslavia began to
  unravel along ethnic lines: Slovenia, Croatia, and The Former
  Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia all declared their independence in
  1991; Bosnia and Herzegovina in 1992. The remaining republics of
  Serbia and Montenegro declared a new "Federal Republic of
  Yugoslavia" in 1992 and, under President Slobodan MILOSEVIC, Serbia
  led various military intervention efforts to unite Serbs in
  neighboring republics into a "Greater Serbia." All of these efforts
  were ultimately unsuccessful. In 1999, massive expulsions by Serbs
  of ethnic Albanians living in the autonomous republic of Kosovo
  provoked an international response, including the NATO bombing of
  Serbia and the stationing of NATO and Russian peacekeepers in
  Kosovo. Blatant attempts to manipulate presidential balloting in
  October of 2000 were followed by massive nationwide demonstrations
  and strikes that saw the election winner, Vojislav KOSTUNICA,
  replace MILOSEVIC.

Zambia:
  The territory of Northern Rhodesia was administered by the
  South Africa Company from 1891 until takeover by the UK in 1923.
  During the 1920s and 1930s, advances in mining spurred development
  and immigration. The name was changed to Zambia upon independence in
  1964. In the 1980s and 1990s, declining copper prices and a
  prolonged drought hurt the economy. Elections in 1991 brought an end
  to one-party rule, but the subsequent vote in 1996 saw blatant
  harassment of opposition parties.

Zimbabwe:
  The UK annexed Southern Rhodesia from the South Africa
  Company in 1923. A 1961 constitution was formulated to keep whites
  in power. In 1965 the government unilaterally declared its
  independence, but the UK did not recognize the act and demanded
  voting rights for the black African majority in the country (then
  called Rhodesia). UN sanctions and a guerrilla uprising finally led
  to free elections in 1979 and independence (as Zimbabwe) in 1980.
  Robert MUGABE, the nation's first prime minister, has been the
  country's only ruler (as president since 1987) and has dominated the
  country's political system since independence.

Taiwan:
  In 1895, military defeat forced China to cede Taiwan to
  Japan, however it reverted to Chinese control after World War II.
  Following the communist victory on the mainland in 1949, 2 million
  Nationalists fled to Taiwan and established a government using the
  1947 constitution drawn up for all of China. Over the next five
  decades, the ruling authorities gradually democratized and
  incorporated the native population within its governing structure.
  Throughout this period, the island has prospered to become one of
  East Asia's economic "Tigers." The dominant political issue
  continues to be the relationship between Taiwan and China and the
  question of eventual reunification.

======================================================================

@Birth rate



Afghanistan:
  41.42 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Albania:
  19.01 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Algeria:
  22.76 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

American Samoa:
  24.88 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Andorra:
  10.29 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Angola:
  46.54 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Anguilla:
  15.17 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Antigua and Barbuda:
  19.5 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Argentina:
  18.41 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Armenia:
  11.47 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Aruba:
  12.64 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Australia:
  12.86 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Austria:
  9.74 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Azerbaijan:
  18.44 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Bahamas, The:
  19.1 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Bahrain:
  20.07 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Bangladesh:
  25.3 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Barbados:
  13.47 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Belarus:
  9.57 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Belgium:
  10.74 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Belize:
  31.69 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Benin:
  44.23 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Bermuda:
  12.16 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Bhutan:
  35.73 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Bolivia:
  27.27 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  12.86 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Botswana:
  28.85 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Brazil:
  18.45 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

British Virgin Islands:
  15.18 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Brunei:
  20.45 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Bulgaria:
  8.06 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Burkina Faso:
  44.79 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Burma:
  20.13 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Burundi:
  40.13 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Cambodia:
  33.16 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Cameroon:
  36.12 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Canada:
  11.21 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Cape Verde:
  28.71 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Cayman Islands:
  13.79 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Central African Republic:
  37.05 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Chad:
  48.28 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Chile:
  16.8 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

China:
  15.95 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Christmas Island:
  NA births/1,000 population

Cocos (Keeling) Islands:
  NA births/1,000 population

Colombia:
  22.41 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Comoros:
  39.52 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  46.02 births/1,000 population
  (2001 est.)

Congo, Republic of the:
  38.24 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Costa Rica:
  20.27 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Cote d'Ivoire:
  40.38 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Croatia:
  12.82 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Cuba:
  12.36 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Cyprus:
  13.08 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Czech Republic:
  9.11 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Denmark:
  11.96 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Djibouti:
  40.66 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Dominica:
  17.81 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Dominican Republic:
  24.77 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Ecuador:
  25.99 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Egypt:
  24.89 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

El Salvador:
  28.67 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Equatorial Guinea:
  37.72 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Eritrea:
  42.52 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Estonia:
  8.7 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Ethiopia:
  44.68 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas):
  NA births/1,000 population

Faroe Islands:
  13.64 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Fiji:
  23.33 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Finland:
  10.69 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

France:
  12.1 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

French Guiana:
  22.02 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

French Polynesia:
  18.6 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Gabon:
  27.42 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Gambia, The:
  41.76 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Gaza Strip:
  42.48 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Georgia:
  11.18 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Germany:
  9.16 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Ghana:
  28.95 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Gibraltar:
  11.25 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Greece:
  9.83 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Greenland:
  16.52 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Grenada:
  23.12 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Guadeloupe:
  16.91 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Guam:
  25.07 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Guatemala:
  34.61 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Guernsey:
  9.9 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Guinea:
  39.78 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Guinea-Bissau:
  39.29 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Guyana:
  17.92 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Haiti:
  31.68 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Honduras:
  31.94 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Hong Kong:
  11.13 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Hungary:
  9.32 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Iceland:
  14.62 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

India:
  24.28 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Indonesia:
  22.26 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Iran:
  17.1 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Iraq:
  34.64 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Ireland:
  14.57 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Israel:
  19.12 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Italy:
  9.05 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Jamaica:
  18.12 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Japan:
  10.04 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Jersey:
  11.28 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Jordan:
  25.44 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Kazakhstan:
  17.3 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Kenya:
  28.5 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Kiribati:
  31.98 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Korea, North:
  19.1 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Korea, South:
  14.85 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Kuwait:
  21.91 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Kyrgyzstan:
  26.18 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Laos:
  37.84 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Latvia:
  8.03 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Lebanon:
  20.16 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Lesotho:
  31.24 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Liberia:
  46.55 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Libya:
  27.67 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Liechtenstein:
  11.53 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Lithuania:
  10 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Luxembourg:
  12.25 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Macau:
  12.36 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  13.5 births/1,000
  population (2001 est.)

Madagascar:
  42.66 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Malawi:
  37.8 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Malaysia:
  24.75 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Maldives:
  38.15 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Mali:
  48.79 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Malta:
  12.75 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Man, Isle of:
  11.58 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Marshall Islands:
  45.07 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Martinique:
  15.76 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Mauritania:
  42.95 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Mauritius:
  16.5 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Mayotte:
  44.39 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Mexico:
  22.77 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Moldova:
  13.35 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Monaco:
  9.74 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Mongolia:
  21.8 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Montserrat:
  17.43 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Morocco:
  24.16 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Mozambique:
  37.2 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Namibia:
  34.71 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Nauru:
  27.22 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Nepal:
  33.4 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Netherlands:
  11.85 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Netherlands Antilles:
  16.55 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

New Caledonia:
  20.37 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

New Zealand:
  14.28 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Nicaragua:
  27.64 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Niger:
  50.68 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Nigeria:
  39.69 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Niue:
  NA births/1,000 population

Norfolk Island:
  NA births/1,000 population

Northern Mariana Islands:
  20.6 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Norway:
  12.6 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Oman:
  37.96 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Pakistan:
  31.21 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Palau:
  19.64 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Panama:
  19.06 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Papua New Guinea:
  32.15 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Paraguay:
  30.88 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Peru:
  23.9 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Philippines:
  27.37 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Pitcairn Islands:
  NA births/1,000 population

Poland:
  10.2 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Portugal:
  11.51 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Puerto Rico:
  15.26 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Qatar:
  15.91 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Reunion:
  21.26 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Romania:
  10.8 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Russia:
  9.35 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Rwanda:
  33.97 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Saint Helena:
  13.49 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Saint Kitts and Nevis:
  18.78 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Saint Lucia:
  21.8 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Saint Pierre and Miquelon:
  15.88 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:
  17.91 births/1,000 population
  (2001 est.)

Samoa:
  15.59 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

San Marino:
  10.76 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sao Tome and Principe:
  42.74 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Saudi Arabia:
  37.34 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Senegal:
  37.46 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Seychelles:
  17.66 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sierra Leone:
  45.11 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Singapore:
  12.8 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Slovakia:
  10.05 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Slovenia:
  9.32 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Solomon Islands:
  34.05 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Somalia:
  47.23 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

South Africa:
  21.12 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Spain:
  9.26 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sri Lanka:
  16.58 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sudan:
  37.89 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Suriname:
  20.53 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Svalbard:
  NA births/1,000 population

Swaziland:
  40.12 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sweden:
  9.91 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Switzerland:
  10.12 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Syria:
  30.64 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Tajikistan:
  33.23 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Tanzania:
  39.65 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Thailand:
  16.63 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Togo:
  37.04 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Tokelau:
  NA births/1,000 population

Tonga:
  23.59 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Trinidad and Tobago:
  13.73 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Tunisia:
  17.11 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Turkey:
  18.31 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Turkmenistan:
  28.55 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Turks and Caicos Islands:
  24.89 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Tuvalu:
  21.56 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Uganda:
  47.52 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Ukraine:
  9.31 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

United Arab Emirates:
  18.11 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

United Kingdom:
  11.54 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

United States:
  14.2 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Uruguay:
  17.36 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Uzbekistan:
  26.1 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Vanuatu:
  25.4 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Venezuela:
  20.65 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Vietnam:
  21.23 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Virgin Islands:
  15.9 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Wallis and Futuna:
  NA births/1,000 population

West Bank:
  35.83 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

World:
  21.37 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Yemen:
  43.36 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Yugoslavia:
  12.61 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Zambia:
  41.46 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Zimbabwe:
  24.68 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Taiwan:
  14.31 births/1,000 population (2001 est.)

======================================================================

@Budget



Afghanistan:
  revenues:  $NA

  expenditures:  $NA, including capital expenditures of $NA

Albania:
  revenues:  $393 million

  expenditures:  $676 million, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (1997 est.)

Algeria:
  revenues:  $15.8 billion

  expenditures:  $16 billion, including capital expenditures of $5.3
  billion (2001 est.)

American Samoa:
  revenues:  $121 million (37% in local revenue and
  63% in US grants)

  expenditures:  $127 million, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (FY96/97)

Andorra:
  revenues:  $385 million

  expenditures:  $342 million, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (1997)

Angola:
  revenues:  $928 million

  expenditures:  $2.5 billion, including capital expenditures of $963
  million (1992 est.)

Anguilla:
  revenues:  $20.4 million

  expenditures:  $23.3 million, including capital expenditures of $3.8
  million (1997 est.)

Antigua and Barbuda:
  revenues:  $122.6 million

  expenditures:  $141.2 million, including capital expenditures of
  $17.3 million (1997 est.)

Argentina:
  revenues:  $44 billion

  expenditures:  $48 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (2000 est.)

Armenia:
  revenues:  $360 million

  expenditures:  $566 million, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (1999 est.)

Aruba:
  revenues:  $NA

  expenditures:  $541 million, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (2000 est.)

Australia:
  revenues:  $94 billion

  expenditures:  $103 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (1999 est.)

Austria:
  revenues:  $56.3 billion

  expenditures:  $60.5 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (2000 est.)

Azerbaijan:
  revenues:  $777 million

  expenditures:  $995 million, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (1999 est.)

Bahamas, The:
  revenues:  $766 million

  expenditures:  $845 million, including capital expenditures of $97
  million (FY97/98)

Bahrain:
  revenues:  $1.8 billion

  expenditures:  $2.2 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (2001 est.)

Bangladesh:
  revenues:  $4.9 billion

  expenditures:  $6.8 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (FY99/00 est.)

Barbados:
  revenues:  $725.5 million

  expenditures:  $750.6 million, including capital expenditures of
  $126.3 million (FY97/98 est.)

Belarus:
  revenues:  $4 billion

  expenditures:  $4.1 billion, including capital expenditures of $180
  million (1997 est.)

Belgium:
  revenues:  $114.8 billion

  expenditures:  $117 billion, including capital expenditures of $7.6
  billion (1999)

Belize:
  revenues:  $157 million

  expenditures:  $279 million, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (1999 est.)

Benin:
  revenues:  $299 million

  expenditures:  $445 million, including capital expenditures of $14
  million (1995 est.)

Bermuda:
  revenues:  $504.6 million

  expenditures:  $537 million, including capital expenditures of $75
  million (FY97/98)

Bhutan:
  revenues:  $146 million

  expenditures:  $152 million, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (FY95/96 est.)

  note:  the government of India finances nearly three-fifths of
  Bhutan's budget expenditures

Bolivia:
  revenues:  $2.7 billion

  expenditures:  $2.7 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (1998)

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  revenues:  $1.9 billion

  expenditures:  $2.2 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (1999 est.)

Botswana:
  revenues:  $1.6 billion

  expenditures:  $1.8 billion, including capital expenditures of $560
  million (FY96)

Brazil:
  revenues:  $151 billion

  expenditures:  $149 billion, including capital expenditures of $36
  billion (1998)

British Virgin Islands:
  revenues:  $121.5 million

  expenditures:  $115.5 million, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (1997)

Brunei:
  revenues:  $2.5 billion

  expenditures:  $2.6 billion, including capital expenditures of $1.35
  billion (1997 est.)

Bulgaria:
  revenues:  $4.85 billion

  expenditures:  $4.92 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (2000 est.)

Burkina Faso:
  revenues:  $277 million

  expenditures:  $492 million, including capital expenditures of $233
  million (1995 est.)

Burma:
  revenues:  $7.9 billion

  expenditures:  $12.2 billion, including capital expenditures of $5.7
  billion (FY96/97)

Burundi:
  revenues:  $125 million

  expenditures:  $176 million, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (2000 est.)

Cambodia:
  revenues:  $363 million

  expenditures:  $532 million, including capital expenditures of $225
  million (2000 est.)

Cameroon:
  revenues:  $2.1 billion

  expenditures:  $2.1 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (FY00/01 est.)

Canada:
  revenues:  $126.1 billion

  expenditures:  $125.3 billion, including capital expenditures of
  $14.8 billion (2000)

Cape Verde:
  revenues:  $188 million

  expenditures:  $228 million, including capital expenditures of $116
  million (1996)

Cayman Islands:
  revenues:  $265.2 million

  expenditures:  $248.9 million, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (1997)

Central African Republic:
  revenues:  $638 million

  expenditures:  $1.9 billion, including capital expenditures of $888
  million (1994 est.)

Chad:
  revenues:  $198 million

  expenditures:  $218 million, including capital expenditures of $146
  million (1998 est.)

Chile:
  revenues:  $16 billion

  expenditures:  $17 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (2000 est.)

China:
  revenues:  $NA

  expenditures:  $NA, including capital expenditures of $NA

Christmas Island:
  revenues:  $NA

  expenditures:  $NA, including capital expenditures of $NA

Cocos (Keeling) Islands:
  revenues:  $NA

  expenditures:  $NA, including capital expenditures of $NA

Colombia:
  revenues:  $22 billion

  expenditures:  $24 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (2000 est.)

Comoros:
  revenues:  $48 million

  expenditures:  $53 million, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (1997)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  revenues:  $269 million

  expenditures:  $244 million, including capital expenditures of $24
  million (1996 est.)

Congo, Republic of the:
  revenues:  $870 million

  expenditures:  $970 million, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (1997 est.)

Cook Islands:
  revenues:  $25 million

  expenditures:  $23 million, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (FY 99/00)

Costa Rica:
  revenues:  $1.95 billion

  expenditures:  $2.4 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (2000 est.)

Cote d'Ivoire:
  revenues:  $1.5 billion

  expenditures:  $2.1 billion, including capital expenditures of $420
  million (2000 est.)

Croatia:
  revenues:  $6 billion

  expenditures:  $4.7 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (1999 est.)

Cuba:
  revenues:  $13.5 billion

  expenditures:  $14.3 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (2000 est.)

Cyprus:
  revenues:  Greek Cypriot area - $2.9 billion (2000 est.);
  Turkish Cypriot area - $294 million (2000 est.)

  expenditures:  Greek Cypriot area - $3.2 billion, including capital
  expenditures of $324 million (2000 est.); Turkish Cypriot $495
  million, including capital expenditures of $60 million (2000 est.)

Czech Republic:
  revenues:  $16.7 billion

  expenditures:  $18 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (2001 est.)

Denmark:
  revenues:  $52.9 billion

  expenditures:  $51.3 billion, including capital expenditures of $500
  million (2001 est.)

Djibouti:
  revenues:  $133 million

  expenditures:  $187 million, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (1999 est.)

Dominica:
  revenues:  $72 million

  expenditures:  $79.9 million, including capital expenditures of
  $11.5 million (FY97/98)

Dominican Republic:
  revenues:  $2.3 billion

  expenditures:  $2.9 billion, including capital expenditures of $867
  million (1999 est.)

Ecuador:
  revenues:  planned $5.1 billion (not including revenue from
  potential privatizations)

  expenditures:  $5.1 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (1999)

Egypt:
  revenues:  $22.6 billion

  expenditures:  $26.2 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (FY99)

El Salvador:
  revenues:  $1.8 billion

  expenditures:  $2.2 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (1999 est.)

Equatorial Guinea:
  revenues:  $47 million

  expenditures:  $43 million, including capital expenditures of $7
  million (1996 est.)

Eritrea:
  revenues:  $283.9 million

  expenditures:  $351.6 million, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (1997 est.)

Estonia:
  revenues:  $1.37 billion

  expenditures:  $1.37 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (1997 est.)

Ethiopia:
  revenues:  $1 billion

  expenditures:  $1.48 billion, including capital expenditures of $415
  million (FY96/97)

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas):
  revenues:  $66.2 million

  expenditures:  $67.9 million, including capital expenditures of
  $23.2 million (FY98/99 est.)

Faroe Islands:
  revenues:  $488 million

  expenditures:  $484 million, including capital expenditures of $21
  million (1999)

Fiji:
  revenues:  $610 million

  expenditures:  $501 million, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (1999 est.)

Finland:
  revenues:  $36.1 billion

  expenditures:  $31 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (2000 est.)

France:
  revenues:  $210 billion

  expenditures:  $240 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (2000 est.)

French Guiana:
  revenues:  $225 million

  expenditures:  $390 million, including capital expenditures of $105
  million (1996)

French Polynesia:
  revenues:  $1 billion

  expenditures:  $900 million, including capital expenditures of $185
  million (1996)

Gabon:
  revenues:  $1.5 billion

  expenditures:  $1.3 billion, including capital expenditures of $302
  million (1996 est.)

Gambia, The:
  revenues:  $90.5 million

  expenditures:  $80.9 million, including capital expenditures of $4.1
  million (2001 est.)

Gaza Strip:
  revenues:  $1.6 billion

  expenditures:  $1.73 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA

  note:  includes West Bank (1999 est.)

Georgia:
  revenues:  $437 million

  expenditures:  $626 million, including capital expenditures of $60
  million (1999)

Germany:
  revenues:  $996 billion

  expenditures:  $1.036 trillion, including capital expenditures of
  $NA (1999 est.)

Ghana:
  revenues:  $1.39 billion

  expenditures:  $1.47 billion, including capital expenditures of $370
  million (1996 est.)

Gibraltar:
  revenues:  $307 million

  expenditures:  $284 million, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (FY00/01 est.)

Greece:
  revenues:  $45 billion

  expenditures:  $47.6 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (1998 est.)

Greenland:
  revenues:  $646 million

  expenditures:  $629 million, including capital expenditures of $85
  million (1999)

Grenada:
  revenues:  $85.8 million

  expenditures:  $102.1 million, including capital expenditures of $28
  million (1997)

Guadeloupe:
  revenues:  $225 million

  expenditures:  $390 million, including capital expenditures of $105
  million (1996)

Guam:
  revenues:  $605.3 million

  expenditures:  $654.2 million, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (2000)

Guatemala:
  revenues:  $2.2 billion

  expenditures:  $1.8 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (2001 est.)

Guernsey:
  revenues:  $381.3 million

  expenditures:  $368.8 million, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (2000 est.)

Guinea:
  revenues:  $NA

  expenditures:  $417.7 million, including capital expenditures of $NA
  million (2000 est.)

Guinea-Bissau:
  revenues:  $NA

  expenditures:  $NA, including capital expenditures of $NA

Guyana:
  revenues:  $220.1 million

  expenditures:  $286.4 million, including capital expenditures of
  $86.6 million (1998)

Haiti:
  revenues:  $317 million

  expenditures:  $362 million, including capital expenditures of $84
  million (FY99/00 est.)

Holy See (Vatican City):
  revenues:  $209.6 million

  expenditures:  $198.5 million, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (1997)

Honduras:
  revenues:  $607 million

  expenditures:  $411.9 million, including capital expenditures of
  $106 million (1999 est.)

Hong Kong:
  revenues:  $20.8 billion

  expenditures:  $24.5 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (FY99/00)

Hungary:
  revenues:  $13 billion

  expenditures:  $14.4 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (2000 est.)

Iceland:
  revenues:  $3.5 billion

  expenditures:  $3.3 billion, including capital expenditures of $467
  million (1999)

India:
  revenues:  $44.3 billion

  expenditures:  $73.6 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (FY00/01 est.)

Indonesia:
  revenues:  $26 billion

  expenditures:  $30 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (2000 est.)

Iran:
  revenues:  $27 billion

  expenditures:  $27 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (1999)

Iraq:
  revenues:  $NA

  expenditures:  $NA, including capital expenditures of $NA

Ireland:
  revenues:  $25.7 billion

  expenditures:  $19.2 billion, including capital expenditures of $2
  billion (2000)

Israel:
  revenues:  $40 billion

  expenditures:  $42.4 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (2000 est.)

Italy:
  revenues:  $488 billion

  expenditures:  $501 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (2000 est.)

Jamaica:
  revenues:  $2.23 billion

  expenditures:  $2.56 billion, including capital expenditures of
  $232.5 million (FY99/00 est.)

Japan:
  revenues:  $441 billion

  expenditures:  $718 billion, including capital expenditures (public
  works only) of about $84 billion (FY01/02 est.)

Jersey:
  revenues:  $601 million

  expenditures:  $588 million, including capital expenditures of $98
  million (2000 est.)

Jordan:
  revenues:  $2.8 billion

  expenditures:  $3.1 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (2000 est.)

Kazakhstan:
  revenues:  $3.1 billion

  expenditures:  $3.6 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (1999 est.)

Kenya:
  revenues:  $2.91 billion

  expenditures:  $2.97 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (2000 est.)

Kiribati:
  revenues:  $33.3 million

  expenditures:  $47.7 million, including capital expenditures of $NA
  million (1996 est.)

Korea, North:
  revenues:  $NA

  expenditures:  $NA, including capital expenditures of $NA

Korea, South:
  revenues:  $81.8 billion

  expenditures:  $94.9 billion, including capital expenditures of $6.1
  billion (1999)

Kuwait:
  revenues:  $11.5 billion

  expenditures:  $17.2 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (FY01/02)

Kyrgyzstan:
  revenues:  $207.4 million

  expenditures:  $238.7 million, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (1999 est.)

Laos:
  revenues:  $211 million

  expenditures:  $462 million, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (FY98/99 est.)

Latvia:
  revenues:  $1.33 billion

  expenditures:  $1.27 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (1998 est.)

Lebanon:
  revenues:  $3.31 billion

  expenditures:  $5.55 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (2000 est.)

Lesotho:
  revenues:  $76 million

  expenditures:  $80 million, including capital expenditures of $15
  million (FY99/00 est.)

Liberia:
  revenues:  $NA

  expenditures:  $NA, including capital expenditures of $NA

Libya:
  revenues:  $6.85 billion

  expenditures:  $4.4 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (2000 est.)

Liechtenstein:
  revenues:  $424.2 million

  expenditures:  $414.1 million, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (1998 est.)

Lithuania:
  revenues:  $1.5 billion

  expenditures:  $1.7 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (1997 est.)

Luxembourg:
  revenues:  $5.6 billion

  expenditures:  $5.6 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (2000 est.)

Macau:
  revenues:  $1.26 billion

  expenditures:  $1.22 billion, including capital expenditures of $175
  million (1999 est.)

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  revenues:  $1.06 billion

  expenditures:  $1 billion, including capital expenditures of $107
  million (1996 est.)

Madagascar:
  revenues:  $553 million

  expenditures:  $735 million, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (1998 est.)

Malawi:
  revenues:  $490 million

  expenditures:  $523 million, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (FY99/00 est.)

Malaysia:
  revenues:  $16.4 billion

  expenditures:  $17.8 billion, including capital expenditures of $43
  billion (2000 est.)

Maldives:
  revenues:  $166 million (excluding foreign grants)

  expenditures:  $192 million, including capital expenditures of $80
  million (1999 est.)

Mali:
  revenues:  $730 million

  expenditures:  $770 million, including capital expenditures of $320
  million (1997 est.)

Malta:
  revenues:  $1.6 billion

  expenditures:  $1.73 billion, including capital expenditures of
  $265.4 million (1999)

Man, Isle of:
  revenues:  $485 million

  expenditures:  $463 million, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (FY00/01 est.)

Marshall Islands:
  revenues:  $80.1 million

  expenditures:  $77.4 million, including capital expenditures of
  $19.5 million (FY95/96 est.)

Martinique:
  revenues:  $900 million

  expenditures:  $2.5 billion, including capital expenditures of $140
  million (1996)

Mauritania:
  revenues:  $329 million

  expenditures:  $265 million, including capital expenditures of $75
  million (1996 est.)

Mauritius:
  revenues:  $1.1 billion

  expenditures:  $1.2 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (1999 est.)

Mayotte:
  revenues:  $NA

  expenditures:  $73 million, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (1991 est.)

Mexico:
  revenues:  $125 billion

  expenditures:  $130 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (2000 est.)

Micronesia, Federated States of:
  revenues:  $161 million ($69
  million less grants)

  expenditures:  $160 million, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (1998 est.)

Moldova:
  revenues:  $536 million

  expenditures:  $594 million, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (1998 est.)

Monaco:
  revenues:  $518 million

  expenditures:  $531 million, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (1995)

Mongolia:
  revenues:  $262 million

  expenditures:  $328 million, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (2000 est.)

Montserrat:
  revenues:  $31.4 million

  expenditures:  $31.6 million, including capital expenditures of $8.4
  million (1997 est.)

Morocco:
  revenues:  $9.6 billion

  expenditures:  $8.6 billion, including capital expenditures of $2.1
  billion (2001 est.)

Mozambique:
  revenues:  $466.9 million

  expenditures:  $1.004 billion, including capital expenditures of
  $502.5 million (2000 est.)

Namibia:
  revenues:  $883 million

  expenditures:  $950 million, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (1998)

Nauru:
  revenues:  $23.4 million

  expenditures:  $64.8 million, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (FY95/96)

Nepal:
  revenues:  $536 million

  expenditures:  $818 million, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (FY96/97 est.)

Netherlands:
  revenues:  $134 billion

  expenditures:  $134 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (2001 est.)

Netherlands Antilles:
  revenues:  $710.8 million

  expenditures:  $741.6 million, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (1997 est.)

New Caledonia:
  revenues:  $861.3 million

  expenditures:  $735.3 million, including capital expenditures of $52
  million (1996 est.)

New Zealand:
  revenues:  $19.2 billion

  expenditures:  $19.2 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (1999 est.)

Nicaragua:
  revenues:  $734 million

  expenditures:  $836 million, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (1999 est.)

Niger:
  revenues:  $377 million, including $146 million from foreign
  sources

  expenditures:  $377 million, including capital expenditures of $105
  million (1999 est.)

Nigeria:
  revenues:  $3.4 billion

  expenditures:  $3.6 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (2000 est.)

Niue:
  revenues:  $NA

  expenditures:  $NA, including capital expenditures of $NA

Norfolk Island:
  revenues:  $4.6 million

  expenditures:  $4.8 million, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (FY92/93)

Northern Mariana Islands:
  revenues:  $221 million

  expenditures:  $213 million, including capital expenditures of $17.7
  million (1996)

Norway:
  revenues:  $71.7 billion

  expenditures:  $57.6 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (2000 est.)

Oman:
  revenues:  $4.7 billion

  expenditures:  $5.9 billion, including capital expenditures of $490
  million (1999)

Pakistan:
  revenues:  $8.9 billion

  expenditures:  $11.6 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (FY00/01 est.)

Palau:
  revenues:  $57.7 million

  expenditures:  $80.8 million, including capital expenditures of
  $17.1 million (FY98/99 est.)

Panama:
  revenues:  $2.8 billion

  expenditures:  $2.9 billion, including capital expenditures of $471
  million (2000 est.)

Papua New Guinea:
  revenues:  $1.6 billion

  expenditures:  $1.9 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (1998 est.)

Paraguay:
  revenues:  $1.3 billion

  expenditures:  $2 billion, including capital expenditures of $700
  million (1999 est.)

Peru:
  revenues:  $8.5 billion

  expenditures:  $9.3 billion, including capital expenditures of $2
  billion (1996 est.)

Philippines:
  revenues:  $14.5 billion

  expenditures:  $12.6 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (1998 est.)

Pitcairn Islands:
  revenues:  $729,884

  expenditures:  $878,119, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (FY94/95 est.)

Poland:
  revenues:  $49.6 billion

  expenditures:  $52.3 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (1999)

Portugal:
  revenues:  $48.6 billion

  expenditures:  $50.7 billion, including capital expenditures of $7.7
  billion (2000 est.)

Puerto Rico:
  revenues:  $6.7 billion

  expenditures:  $9.6 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (FY99/00)

Qatar:
  revenues:  $3.9 billion

  expenditures:  $4 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (1999 est.)

Reunion:
  revenues:  NA

  expenditures:  NA

Romania:
  revenues:  $11.7 billion

  expenditures:  $12.4 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (1999 est.)

Russia:
  revenues:  $40 billion

  expenditures:  $33.7 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (2000 est.)

Rwanda:
  revenues:  $198 million

  expenditures:  $411 million, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (2000 est.)

Saint Helena:
  revenues:  $11.2 million

  expenditures:  $11 million, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (FY92)

Saint Kitts and Nevis:
  revenues:  $64.1 million

  expenditures:  $73.3 million, including capital expenditures of
  $10.4 million (1997 est.)

Saint Lucia:
  revenues:  $141.2 million

  expenditures:  $146.7 million, including capital expenditures of
  $25.1 million (FY97/98 est.)

Saint Pierre and Miquelon:
  revenues:  $70 million

  expenditures:  $60 million, including capital expenditures of $24
  million (1996 est.)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:
  revenues:  $85.7 million

  expenditures:  $98.6 million, including capital expenditures of
  $25.7 million (1997 est.)

Samoa:
  revenues:  $74.8 million

  expenditures:  $81.4 million, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (1999 est.)

San Marino:
  revenues:  $400 million

  expenditures:  $400 million, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (2000 est.)

Sao Tome and Principe:
  revenues:  $58 million

  expenditures:  $114 million, including capital expenditures of $54
  million (1993 est.)

Saudi Arabia:
  revenues:  $66 billion

  expenditures:  $66 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (2000 est.)

Senegal:
  revenues:  $885 million

  expenditures:  $885 million, including capital expenditures of $125
  million (1996 est.)

Seychelles:
  revenues:  $249 million

  expenditures:  $262 million, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (1998 est.)

Sierra Leone:
  revenues:  $96 million

  expenditures:  $351 million, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (2000 est.)

Singapore:
  revenues:  $18.1 billion

  expenditures:  $17.1 billion, including capital expenditures of $9.5
  billion (FY99/00 est.)

Slovakia:
  revenues:  $5.2 billion

  expenditures:  $5.6 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (1999)

Slovenia:
  revenues:  $8.11 billion

  expenditures:  $8.32 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (1997 est.)

Solomon Islands:
  revenues:  $147 million

  expenditures:  $168 million, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (1997 est.)

Somalia:
  revenues:  $NA

  expenditures:  $NA, including capital expenditures of $NA

South Africa:
  revenues:  $31.1 billion

  expenditures:  $34.4 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
  billion (FY01/02)

South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands:
  revenues:  $291,777

  expenditures:  $451,000, including capital expenditures of $NA (1988
  est.)

Spain:
  revenues:  $105 billion

  expenditures:  $109 billion, including capital expenditures of $12.8
  billion (2000 est.)

Sri Lanka:
  revenues:  $3 billion

  expenditures:  $3 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (2000 est.)

Sudan:
  revenues:  $1.2 billion

  expenditures:  $1.3 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (2000 est.)

Suriname:
  revenues:  $393 million

  expenditures:  $403 million, including capital expenditures of $34
  million (1997 est.)

Svalbard:
  revenues:  $11.5 million

  expenditures:  $11.5 million, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (1998 est.)

Swaziland:
  revenues:  $400 million

  expenditures:  $450 million, including capital expenditures of $115
  million (FY96/97)

Sweden:
  revenues:  $133 billion

  expenditures:  $125.2 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (2000 est.)

Switzerland:
  revenues:  $32.66 billion

  expenditures:  $34.89 billion, including capital expenditures of
  $2.3 billion (1998 est.)

Syria:
  revenues:  $2.25 billion

  expenditures:  $5.4 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (2000 est.)

Tajikistan:
  revenues:  $146 million

  expenditures:  $196 million, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (2000 est.)

Tanzania:
  revenues:  $1.21 billion

  expenditures:  $1.36 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (1999 est.)

Thailand:
  revenues:  $19 billion

  expenditures:  $21 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (2000 est.)

Togo:
  revenues:  $232 million

  expenditures:  $252 million, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (1997 est.)

Tokelau:
  revenues:  $430,830

  expenditures:  $2.8 million, including capital expenditures of
  $37,300 (1987 est.)

Tonga:
  revenues:  $49 million

  expenditures:  $120 million, including capital expenditures of $75
  million (FY96/97 est.)

Trinidad and Tobago:
  revenues:  $1.54 billion

  expenditures:  $1.6 billion, including capital expenditures of
  $117.3 million (1998)

Tunisia:
  revenues:  $7.5 billion

  expenditures:  $8.1 billion, including capital expenditures to $1.6
  billion (2000 est.)

Turkey:
  revenues:  $54.5 billion

  expenditures:  $75.2 billion, including capital expenditures of $3.3
  billion (2000)

Turkmenistan:
  revenues:  $588.6 million

  expenditures:  $658.2 million, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (1999 est.)

Turks and Caicos Islands:
  revenues:  $47 million

  expenditures:  $33.6 million, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (1997-1998 est.)

Tuvalu:
  revenues:  $6.2 million

  expenditures:  $6.1 million, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (1998 est.)

Uganda:
  revenues:  $959 million

  expenditures:  $1.04 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (FY98/99 est.)

Ukraine:
  revenues:  $8.3 billion

  expenditures:  $8.8 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (1999 est.)

United Arab Emirates:
  revenues:  $6.5 billion

  expenditures:  $7.3 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (2000 est.)

United Kingdom:
  revenues:  $555.2 billion

  expenditures:  $510.8 billion, including capital expenditures of
  $37.7 billion (FY00)

United States:
  revenues:  $1.828 trillion

  expenditures:  $1.703 trillion, including capital expenditures of
  $NA (1999)

Uruguay:
  revenues:  $4 billion

  expenditures:  $4.6 billion, including capital expenditures of $500
  million (2000 est.)

Uzbekistan:
  revenues:  $4 billion

  expenditures:  $4.1 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (1999 est.)

Vanuatu:
  revenues:  $94.4 million

  expenditures:  $99.8 million, including capital expenditures of
  $30.4 million (1996 est.)

Venezuela:
  revenues:  $26.4 billion

  expenditures:  $27 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (2000 est.)

Vietnam:
  revenues:  $5.3 billion

  expenditures:  $5.6 billion, including capital expenditures of $1.8
  billion (1999 est.)

Virgin Islands:
  revenues:  $364.4 million

  expenditures:  $364.4 million, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (1990 est.)

Wallis and Futuna:
  revenues:  $20 million

  expenditures:  $17 million, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (1998 est.)

West Bank:
  revenues:  $1.6 billion

  expenditures:  $1.73 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA

  note:  includes Gaza Strip (1999 est.)

Western Sahara:
  revenues:  $NA

  expenditures:  $NA, including capital expenditures of $NA

Yemen:
  revenues:  $3 billion

  expenditures:  $3.1 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (2001 est.)

Yugoslavia:
  revenues:  $NA

  expenditures:  $NA, including capital expenditures of $NA

Zambia:
  revenues:  $900 million

  expenditures:  $1 billion, including capital expenditures of NA
  million (1999 est.)

Zimbabwe:
  revenues:  $2.5 billion

  expenditures:  $2.9 billion, including capital expenditures of $279
  million (FY96/97 est.)

Taiwan:
  revenues:  $42.74 billion

  expenditures:  $48.8 billion, including capital expenditures of $NA
  (2001 est.)

======================================================================

@Capital



Afghanistan:
  Kabul

Albania:
  Tirana

Algeria:
  Algiers

American Samoa:
  Pago Pago

Andorra:
  Andorra la Vella

Angola:
  Luanda

Anguilla:
  The Valley

Antigua and Barbuda:
  Saint John's

Argentina:
  Buenos Aires

Armenia:
  Yerevan

Aruba:
  Oranjestad

Australia:
  Canberra

Austria:
  Vienna

Azerbaijan:
  Baku (Baki)

Bahamas, The:
  Nassau

Bahrain:
  Manama

Bangladesh:
  Dhaka

Barbados:
  Bridgetown

Belarus:
  Minsk

Belgium:
  Brussels

Belize:
  Belmopan

Benin:
  Porto-Novo is the official capital; Cotonou is the seat of
  government

Bermuda:
  Hamilton

Bhutan:
  Thimphu

Bolivia:
  La Paz (seat of government); Sucre (legal capital and seat
  of judiciary)

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  Sarajevo

Botswana:
  Gaborone

Brazil:
  Brasilia

British Virgin Islands:
  Road Town

Brunei:
  Bandar Seri Begawan

Bulgaria:
  Sofia

Burkina Faso:
  Ouagadougou

Burma:
  Rangoon (regime refers to the capital as Yangon)

Burundi:
  Bujumbura

Cambodia:
  Phnom Penh

Cameroon:
  Yaounde

Canada:
  Ottawa

Cape Verde:
  Praia

Cayman Islands:
  George Town

Central African Republic:
  Bangui

Chad:
  N'Djamena

Chile:
  Santiago

China:
  Beijing

Christmas Island:
  The Settlement

Cocos (Keeling) Islands:
  West Island

Colombia:
  Bogota

Comoros:
  Moroni

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  Kinshasa

Congo, Republic of the:
  Brazzaville

Cook Islands:
  Avarua

Costa Rica:
  San Jose

Cote d'Ivoire:
  Yamoussoukro; note - although Yamoussoukro has been
  the official capital since 1983, Abidjan remains the administrative
  center; the US, like other countries, maintains its Embassy in
  Abidjan

Croatia:
  Zagreb

Cuba:
  Havana

Cyprus:
  Nicosia

Czech Republic:
  Prague

Denmark:
  Copenhagen

Djibouti:
  Djibouti

Dominica:
  Roseau

Dominican Republic:
  Santo Domingo

Ecuador:
  Quito

Egypt:
  Cairo

El Salvador:
  San Salvador

Equatorial Guinea:
  Malabo

Eritrea:
  Asmara (formerly Asmera)

Estonia:
  Tallinn

Ethiopia:
  Addis Ababa

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas):
  Stanley

Faroe Islands:
  Torshavn

Fiji:
  Suva

Finland:
  Helsinki

France:
  Paris

French Guiana:
  Cayenne

French Polynesia:
  Papeete

Gabon:
  Libreville

Gambia, The:
  Banjul

Georgia:
  T'bilisi

Germany:
  Berlin

Ghana:
  Accra

Gibraltar:
  Gibraltar

Greece:
  Athens

Greenland:
  Nuuk (Godthab)

Grenada:
  Saint George's

Guadeloupe:
  Basse-Terre

Guam:
  Hagatna (Agana)

Guatemala:
  Guatemala

Guernsey:
  Saint Peter Port

Guinea:
  Conakry

Guinea-Bissau:
  Bissau

Guyana:
  Georgetown

Haiti:
  Port-au-Prince

Holy See (Vatican City):
  Vatican City

Honduras:
  Tegucigalpa

Hungary:
  Budapest

Iceland:
  Reykjavik

India:
  New Delhi

Indonesia:
  Jakarta

Iran:
  Tehran

Iraq:
  Baghdad

Ireland:
  Dublin

Israel:
  Jerusalem; note - Israel proclaimed Jerusalem as its capital
  in 1950, but the US, like nearly all other countries, maintains its
  Embassy in Tel Aviv

Italy:
  Rome

Jamaica:
  Kingston

Japan:
  Tokyo

Jersey:
  Saint Helier

Jordan:
  Amman

Kazakhstan:
  Astana; note - the government moved from Almaty to
  Astana in December 1998

Kenya:
  Nairobi

Kiribati:
  Tarawa

Korea, North:
  P'yongyang

Korea, South:
  Seoul

Kuwait:
  Kuwait

Kyrgyzstan:
  Bishkek

Laos:
  Vientiane

Latvia:
  Riga

Lebanon:
  Beirut

Lesotho:
  Maseru

Liberia:
  Monrovia

Libya:
  Tripoli

Liechtenstein:
  Vaduz

Lithuania:
  Vilnius

Luxembourg:
  Luxembourg

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  Skopje

Madagascar:
  Antananarivo

Malawi:
  Lilongwe

Malaysia:
  Kuala Lumpur

Maldives:
  Male

Mali:
  Bamako

Malta:
  Valletta

Man, Isle of:
  Douglas

Marshall Islands:
  Majuro

Martinique:
  Fort-de-France

Mauritania:
  Nouakchott

Mauritius:
  Port Louis

Mayotte:
  Mamoutzou

Mexico:
  Mexico

Micronesia, Federated States of:
  Palikir

Moldova:
  Chisinau

Monaco:
  Monaco

Mongolia:
  Ulaanbaatar

Montserrat:
  Plymouth (abandoned in 1997 due to volcanic activity;
  interim government buildings have been built at Brades, in the
  Carr's Bay/Little Bay vicinity at the northwest end of Montserrat)

Morocco:
  Rabat

Mozambique:
  Maputo

Namibia:
  Windhoek

Nauru:
  no official capital; government offices in Yaren District

Nepal:
  Kathmandu

Netherlands:
  Amsterdam; The Hague is the seat of government

Netherlands Antilles:
  Willemstad

New Caledonia:
  Noumea

New Zealand:
  Wellington

Nicaragua:
  Managua

Niger:
  Niamey

Nigeria:
  Abuja; note - on 12 December 1991 the capital was
  officially transferred from Lagos to Abuja; most federal government
  offices have now made the move to Abuja

Niue:
  Alofi

Norfolk Island:
  Kingston

Northern Mariana Islands:
  Saipan

Norway:
  Oslo

Oman:
  Muscat

Pakistan:
  Islamabad

Palau:
  Koror; note - a new capital is being built about 20 km
  northeast of Koror

Panama:
  Panama

Papua New Guinea:
  Port Moresby

Paraguay:
  Asuncion

Peru:
  Lima

Philippines:
  Manila

Pitcairn Islands:
  Adamstown

Poland:
  Warsaw

Portugal:
  Lisbon

Puerto Rico:
  San Juan

Qatar:
  Doha

Reunion:
  Saint-Denis

Romania:
  Bucharest

Russia:
  Moscow

Rwanda:
  Kigali

Saint Helena:
  Jamestown

Saint Kitts and Nevis:
  Basseterre

Saint Lucia:
  Castries

Saint Pierre and Miquelon:
  Saint-Pierre

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:
  Kingstown

Samoa:
  Apia

San Marino:
  San Marino

Sao Tome and Principe:
  Sao Tome

Saudi Arabia:
  Riyadh

Senegal:
  Dakar

Seychelles:
  Victoria

Sierra Leone:
  Freetown

Singapore:
  Singapore

Slovakia:
  Bratislava

Slovenia:
  Ljubljana

Solomon Islands:
  Honiara

Somalia:
  Mogadishu

South Africa:
  Pretoria; note - Cape Town is the legislative center
  and Bloemfontein the judicial center

Spain:
  Madrid

Sri Lanka:
  Colombo; note - Sri Jayewardenepura Kotte is the
  legislative capital

Sudan:
  Khartoum

Suriname:
  Paramaribo

Svalbard:
  Longyearbyen

Swaziland:
  Mbabane; note - Lobamba is the royal and legislative
  capital

Sweden:
  Stockholm

Switzerland:
  Bern

Syria:
  Damascus

Tajikistan:
  Dushanbe

Tanzania:
  Dar es Salaam; note - legislative offices have been
  transferred to Dodoma, which is planned as the new national capital;
  the National Assembly now meets there on regular basis

Thailand:
  Bangkok

Togo:
  Lome

Tokelau:
  none; each atoll has its own administrative center

Tonga:
  Nuku'alofa

Trinidad and Tobago:
  Port-of-Spain

Tunisia:
  Tunis

Turkey:
  Ankara

Turkmenistan:
  Ashgabat

Turks and Caicos Islands:
  Cockburn Town (on Grand Turk)

Tuvalu:
  Funafuti

Uganda:
  Kampala

Ukraine:
  Kiev (Kyyiv)

United Arab Emirates:
  Abu Dhabi

United Kingdom:
  London

United States:
  Washington, DC

Uruguay:
  Montevideo

Uzbekistan:
  Tashkent (Toshkent)

Vanuatu:
  Port-Vila

Venezuela:
  Caracas

Vietnam:
  Hanoi

Virgin Islands:
  Charlotte Amalie

Wallis and Futuna:
  Mata-Utu (on Ile Uvea)

Western Sahara:
  none

Yemen:
  Sanaa

Yugoslavia:
  Belgrade

Zambia:
  Lusaka

Zimbabwe:
  Harare

Taiwan:
  Taipei

======================================================================

@Climate



Afghanistan:
  arid to semiarid; cold winters and hot summers

Albania:
  mild temperate; cool, cloudy, wet winters; hot, clear, dry
  summers; interior is cooler and wetter

Algeria:
  arid to semiarid; mild, wet winters with hot, dry summers
  along coast; drier with cold winters and hot summers on high
  plateau; sirocco is a hot, dust/sand-laden wind especially common in
  summer

American Samoa:
  tropical marine, moderated by southeast trade winds;
  annual rainfall averages about 3 m; rainy season from November to
  April, dry season from May to October; little seasonal temperature
  variation

Andorra:
  temperate; snowy, cold winters and warm, dry summers

Angola:
  semiarid in south and along coast to Luanda; north has cool,
  dry season (May to October) and hot, rainy season (November to April)

Anguilla:
  tropical; moderated by northeast trade winds

Antarctica:
  severe low temperatures vary with latitude, elevation,
  and distance from the ocean; East Antarctica is colder than West
  Antarctica because of its higher elevation; Antarctic Peninsula has
  the most moderate climate; higher temperatures occur in January
  along the coast and average slightly below freezing

Antigua and Barbuda:
  tropical marine; little seasonal temperature
  variation

Arctic Ocean:
  polar climate characterized by persistent cold and
  relatively narrow annual temperature ranges; winters characterized
  by continuous darkness, cold and stable weather conditions, and
  clear skies; summers characterized by continuous daylight, damp and
  foggy weather, and weak cyclones with rain or snow

Argentina:
  mostly temperate; arid in southeast; subantarctic in
  southwest

Armenia:
  highland continental, hot summers, cold winters

Aruba:
  tropical marine; little seasonal temperature variation

Ashmore and Cartier Islands:
  tropical

Atlantic Ocean:
  tropical cyclones (hurricanes) develop off the coast
  of Africa near Cape Verde and move westward into the Caribbean Sea;
  hurricanes can occur from May to December, but are most frequent
  from August to November

Australia:
  generally arid to semiarid; temperate in south and east;
  tropical in north

Austria:
  temperate; continental, cloudy; cold winters with frequent
  rain in lowlands and snow in mountains; cool summers with occasional
  showers

Azerbaijan:
  dry, semiarid steppe

Bahamas, The:
  tropical marine; moderated by warm waters of Gulf
  Stream

Bahrain:
  arid; mild, pleasant winters; very hot, humid summers

Baker Island:
  equatorial; scant rainfall, constant wind, burning sun

Bangladesh:
  tropical; mild winter (October to March); hot, humid
  summer (March to June); humid, warm rainy monsoon (June to October)

Barbados:
  tropical; rainy season (June to October)

Bassas da India:
  tropical

Belarus:
  cold winters, cool and moist summers; transitional between
  continental and maritime

Belgium:
  temperate; mild winters, cool summers; rainy, humid, cloudy

Belize:
  tropical; very hot and humid; rainy season (May to
  November); dry season (February to May)

Benin:
  tropical; hot, humid in south; semiarid in north

Bermuda:
  subtropical; mild, humid; gales, strong winds common in
  winter

Bhutan:
  varies; tropical in southern plains; cool winters and hot
  summers in central valleys; severe winters and cool summers in
  Himalayas

Bolivia:
  varies with altitude; humid and tropical to cold and
  semiarid

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  hot summers and cold winters; areas of high
  elevation have short, cool summers and long, severe winters; mild,
  rainy winters along coast

Botswana:
  semiarid; warm winters and hot summers

Bouvet Island:
  antarctic

Brazil:
  mostly tropical, but temperate in south

British Indian Ocean Territory:
  tropical marine; hot, humid,
  moderated by trade winds

British Virgin Islands:
  subtropical; humid; temperatures moderated
  by trade winds

Brunei:
  tropical; hot, humid, rainy

Bulgaria:
  temperate; cold, damp winters; hot, dry summers

Burkina Faso:
  tropical; warm, dry winters; hot, wet summers

Burma:
  tropical monsoon; cloudy, rainy, hot, humid summers
  (southwest monsoon, June to September); less cloudy, scant rainfall,
  mild temperatures, lower humidity during winter (northeast monsoon,
  December to April)

Burundi:
  equatorial; high plateau with considerable altitude
  variation (772 m to 2,670 m above sea level); average annual
  temperature varies with altitude from 23 to 17 degrees centigrade
  but is generally moderate as the average altitude is about 1,700 m;
  average annual rainfall is about 150 cm; wet seasons from February
  to May and September to November, and dry seasons from June to
  August and December to January

Cambodia:
  tropical; rainy, monsoon season (May to November); dry
  season (December to April); little seasonal temperature variation

Cameroon:
  varies with terrain, from tropical along coast to semiarid
  and hot in north

Canada:
  varies from temperate in south to subarctic and arctic in
  north

Cape Verde:
  temperate; warm, dry summer; precipitation meager and
  very erratic

Cayman Islands:
  tropical marine; warm, rainy summers (May to
  October) and cool, relatively dry winters (November to April)

Central African Republic:
  tropical; hot, dry winters; mild to hot,
  wet summers

Chad:
  tropical in south, desert in north

Chile:
  temperate; desert in north; Mediterranean in central region;
  cool and damp in south

China:
  extremely diverse; tropical in south to subarctic in north

Christmas Island:
  tropical; heat and humidity moderated by trade
  winds

Clipperton Island:
  tropical, humid, average temperature 20-32
  degrees C, rains May-October

Cocos (Keeling) Islands:
  pleasant, modified by the southeast trade
  winds for about nine months of the year; moderate rainfall

Colombia:
  tropical along coast and eastern plains; cooler in
  highlands

Comoros:
  tropical marine; rainy season (November to May)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  tropical; hot and humid in
  equatorial river basin; cooler and drier in southern highlands;
  cooler and wetter in eastern highlands; north of Equator - wet
  season April to October, dry season December to February; south of
  Equator - wet season November to March, dry season April to October

Congo, Republic of the:
  tropical; rainy season (March to June); dry
  season (June to October); constantly high temperatures and humidity;
  particularly enervating climate astride the Equator

Cook Islands:
  tropical; moderated by trade winds

Coral Sea Islands:
  tropical

Costa Rica:
  tropical and subtropical; dry season (December to
  April); rainy season (May to November); cooler in highlands

Cote d'Ivoire:
  tropical along coast, semiarid in far north; three
  seasons - warm and dry (November to March), hot and dry (March to
  May), hot and wet (June to October)

Croatia:
  Mediterranean and continental; continental climate
  predominant with hot summers and cold winters; mild winters, dry
  summers along coast

Cuba:
  tropical; moderated by trade winds; dry season (November to
  April); rainy season (May to October)

Cyprus:
  temperate, Mediterranean with hot, dry summers and cool,
  winters

Czech Republic:
  temperate; cool summers; cold, cloudy, humid winters

Denmark:
  temperate; humid and overcast; mild, windy winters and cool
  summers

Djibouti:
  desert; torrid, dry

Dominica:
  tropical; moderated by northeast trade winds; heavy
  rainfall

Dominican Republic:
  tropical maritime; little seasonal temperature
  variation; seasonal variation in rainfall

Ecuador:
  tropical along coast, becoming cooler inland at higher
  elevations; tropical in Amazonian jungle lowlands

Egypt:
  desert; hot, dry summers with moderate winters

El Salvador:
  tropical; rainy season (May to October); dry season
  (November to April); tropical on coast; temperate in uplands

Equatorial Guinea:
  tropical; always hot, humid

Eritrea:
  hot, dry desert strip along Red Sea coast; cooler and
  wetter in the central highlands (up to 61 cm of rainfall annually);
  semiarid in western hills and lowlands; rainfall heaviest during
  June-September except in coastal desert

Estonia:
  maritime, wet, moderate winters, cool summers

Ethiopia:
  tropical monsoon with wide topographic-induced variation

Europa Island:
  tropical

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas):
  cold marine; strong westerly
  winds, cloudy, humid; rain occurs on more than half of days in year;
  occasional snow all year, except in January and February, but does
  not accumulate

Faroe Islands:
  mild winters, cool summers; usually overcast; foggy,
  windy

Fiji:
  tropical marine; only slight seasonal temperature variation

Finland:
  cold temperate; potentially subarctic, but comparatively
  mild because of moderating influence of the North Atlantic Current,
  Baltic Sea, and more than 60,000 lakes

France:
  generally cool winters and mild summers, but mild winters
  and hot summers along the Mediterranean; occasional strong, cold,
  dry, north-to-northwesterly wind known as mistral

French Guiana:
  tropical; hot, humid; little seasonal temperature
  variation

French Polynesia:
  tropical, but moderate

French Southern and Antarctic Lands:
  antarctic

Gabon:
  tropical; always hot, humid

Gambia, The:
  tropical; hot, rainy season (June to November); cooler,
  dry season (November to May)

Gaza Strip:
  temperate, mild winters, dry and warm to hot summers

Georgia:
  warm and pleasant; Mediterranean-like on Black Sea coast

Germany:
  temperate and marine; cool, cloudy, wet winters and
  summers; occasional warm foehn wind

Ghana:
  tropical; warm and comparatively dry along southeast coast;
  hot and humid in southwest; hot and dry in north

Gibraltar:
  Mediterranean with mild winters and warm summers

Glorioso Islands:
  tropical

Greece:
  temperate; mild, wet winters; hot, dry summers

Greenland:
  arctic to subarctic; cool summers, cold winters

Grenada:
  tropical; tempered by northeast trade winds

Guadeloupe:
  subtropical tempered by trade winds; moderately high
  humidity

Guam:
  tropical marine; generally warm and humid, moderated by
  northeast trade winds; dry season from January to June, rainy season
  from July to December; little seasonal temperature variation

Guatemala:
  tropical; hot, humid in lowlands; cooler in highlands

Guernsey:
  temperate with mild winters and cool summers; about 50% of
  days are overcast

Guinea:
  generally hot and humid; monsoonal-type rainy season (June
  to November) with southwesterly winds; dry season (December to May)
  with northeasterly harmattan winds

Guinea-Bissau:
  tropical; generally hot and humid; monsoonal-type
  rainy season (June to November) with southwesterly winds; dry season
  (December to May) with northeasterly harmattan winds

Guyana:
  tropical; hot, humid, moderated by northeast trade winds;
  two rainy seasons (May to mid-August, mid-November to mid-January)

Haiti:
  tropical; semiarid where mountains in east cut off trade winds

Heard Island and McDonald Islands:
  antarctic

Holy See (Vatican City):
  temperate; mild, rainy winters (September
  to mid-May) with hot, dry summers (May to September)

Honduras:
  subtropical in lowlands, temperate in mountains

Hong Kong:
  tropical monsoon; cool and humid in winter, hot and rainy
  from spring through summer, warm and sunny in fall

Howland Island:
  equatorial; scant rainfall, constant wind, burning
  sun

Hungary:
  temperate; cold, cloudy, humid winters; warm summers

Iceland:
  temperate; moderated by North Atlantic Current; mild, windy
  winters; damp, cool summers

India:
  varies from tropical monsoon in south to temperate in north

Indian Ocean:
  northeast monsoon (December to April), southwest
  monsoon (June to October); tropical cyclones occur during May/June
  and October/November in the northern Indian Ocean and
  January/February in the southern Indian Ocean

Indonesia:
  tropical; hot, humid; more moderate in highlands

Iran:
  mostly arid or semiarid, subtropical along Caspian coast

Iraq:
  mostly desert; mild to cool winters with dry, hot, cloudless
  summers; northern mountainous regions along Iranian and Turkish
  borders experience cold winters with occasionally heavy snows that
  melt in early spring, sometimes causing extensive flooding in
  central and southern Iraq

Ireland:
  temperate maritime; modified by North Atlantic Current;
  mild winters, cool summers; consistently humid; overcast about half
  the time

Israel:
  temperate; hot and dry in southern and eastern desert areas

Italy:
  predominantly Mediterranean; Alpine in far north; hot, dry in
  south

Jamaica:
  tropical; hot, humid; temperate interior

Jan Mayen:
  arctic maritime with frequent storms and persistent fog

Japan:
  varies from tropical in south to cool temperate in north

Jarvis Island:
  tropical; scant rainfall, constant wind, burning sun

Jersey:
  temperate; mild winters and cool summers

Johnston Atoll:
  tropical, but generally dry; consistent northeast
  trade winds with little seasonal temperature variation

Jordan:
  mostly arid desert; rainy season in west (November to April)

Juan de Nova Island:
  tropical

Kazakhstan:
  continental, cold winters and hot summers, arid and
  semiarid

Kenya:
  varies from tropical along coast to arid in interior

Kingman Reef:
  tropical, but moderated by prevailing winds

Kiribati:
  tropical; marine, hot and humid, moderated by trade winds

Korea, North:
  temperate with rainfall concentrated in summer

Korea, South:
  temperate, with rainfall heavier in summer than winter

Kuwait:
  dry desert; intensely hot summers; short, cool winters

Kyrgyzstan:
  dry continental to polar in high Tien Shan; subtropical
  in southwest (Fergana Valley); temperate in northern foothill zone

Laos:
  tropical monsoon; rainy season (May to November); dry season
  (December to April)

Latvia:
  maritime; wet, moderate winters

Lebanon:
  Mediterranean; mild to cool, wet winters with hot, dry
  summers; Lebanon mountains experience heavy winter snows

Lesotho:
  temperate; cool to cold, dry winters; hot, wet summers

Liberia:
  tropical; hot, humid; dry winters with hot days and cool to
  cold nights; wet, cloudy summers with frequent heavy showers

Libya:
  Mediterranean along coast; dry, extreme desert interior

Liechtenstein:
  continental; cold, cloudy winters with frequent snow
  or rain; cool to moderately warm, cloudy, humid summers

Lithuania:
  transitional, between maritime and continental; wet,
  moderate winters and summers

Luxembourg:
  modified continental with mild winters, cool summers

Macau:
  subtropical; marine with cool winters, warm summers

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  warm, dry summers and
  autumns and relatively cold winters with heavy snowfall

Madagascar:
  tropical along coast, temperate inland, arid in south

Malawi:
  sub-tropical; rainy season (November to May); dry season
  (May to November)

Malaysia:
  tropical; annual southwest (April to October) and
  northeast (October to February) monsoons

Maldives:
  tropical; hot, humid; dry, northeast monsoon (November to
  March); rainy, southwest monsoon (June to August)

Mali:
  subtropical to arid; hot and dry February to June; rainy,
  humid, and mild June to November; cool and dry November to February

Malta:
  Mediterranean with mild, rainy winters and hot, dry summers

Man, Isle of:
  cool summers and mild winters; temperate; overcast
  about one-third of the time

Marshall Islands:
  wet season from May to November; hot and humid;
  islands border typhoon belt

Martinique:
  tropical; moderated by trade winds; rainy season (June
  to October); vulnerable to devastating cyclones (hurricanes) every
  eight years on average; average temperature 17.3 degrees C; humid

Mauritania:
  desert; constantly hot, dry, dusty

Mauritius:
  tropical, modified by southeast trade winds; warm, dry
  winter (May to November); hot, wet, humid summer (November to May)

Mayotte:
  tropical; marine; hot, humid, rainy season during
  northeastern monsoon (November to May); dry season is cooler (May to
  November)

Mexico:
  varies from tropical to desert

Micronesia, Federated States of:
  tropical; heavy year-round
  rainfall, especially in the eastern islands; located on southern
  edge of the typhoon belt with occasionally severe damage

Midway Islands:
  subtropical, but moderated by prevailing easterly
  winds

Moldova:
  moderate winters, warm summers

Monaco:
  Mediterranean with mild, wet winters and hot, dry summers

Mongolia:
  desert; continental (large daily and seasonal temperature
  ranges)

Montserrat:
  tropical; little daily or seasonal temperature variation

Morocco:
  Mediterranean, becoming more extreme in the interior

Mozambique:
  tropical to subtropical

Namibia:
  desert; hot, dry; rainfall sparse and erratic

Nauru:
  tropical; monsoonal; rainy season (November to February)

Navassa Island:
  marine, tropical

Nepal:
  varies from cool summers and severe winters in north to
  subtropical summers and mild winters in south

Netherlands:
  temperate; marine; cool summers and mild winters

Netherlands Antilles:
  tropical; ameliorated by northeast trade winds

New Caledonia:
  tropical; modified by southeast trade winds; hot,
  humid

New Zealand:
  temperate with sharp regional contrasts

Nicaragua:
  tropical in lowlands, cooler in highlands

Niger:
  desert; mostly hot, dry, dusty; tropical in extreme south

Nigeria:
  varies; equatorial in south, tropical in center, arid in
  north

Niue:
  tropical; modified by southeast trade winds

Norfolk Island:
  subtropical, mild, little seasonal temperature
  variation

Northern Mariana Islands:
  tropical marine; moderated by northeast
  trade winds, little seasonal temperature variation; dry season
  December to June, rainy season July to October

Norway:
  temperate along coast, modified by North Atlantic Current;
  colder interior with increased precipitation and colder summers
  causing glaciers to grow; rainy year-round on west coast

Oman:
  dry desert; hot, humid along coast; hot, dry interior; strong
  southwest summer monsoon (May to September) in far south

Pacific Ocean:
  planetary air pressure systems and resultant wind
  patterns exhibit remarkable uniformity in the south and east; trade
  winds and westerly winds are well-developed patterns, modified by
  seasonal fluctuations; tropical cyclones (hurricanes) may form south
  of Mexico from June to October and affect Mexico and Central
  America; continental influences cause climatic uniformity to be much
  less pronounced in the eastern and western regions at the same
  latitude in the North Pacific Ocean; the western Pacific is
  monsoonal - a rainy season occurs during the summer months, when
  moisture-laden winds blow from the ocean over the land, and a dry
  season during the winter months, when dry winds blow from the Asian
  landmass back to the ocean; tropical cyclones (typhoons) may strike
  southeast and east Asia from May to December

Pakistan:
  mostly hot, dry desert; temperate in northwest; arctic in
  north

Palau:
  wet season May to November; hot and humid

Palmyra Atoll:
  equatorial, hot, and very rainy

Panama:
  tropical maritime; hot, humid, cloudy; prolonged rainy
  season (May to January), short dry season (January to May)

Papua New Guinea:
  tropical; northwest monsoon (December to March),
  southeast monsoon (May to October); slight seasonal temperature
  variation

Paracel Islands:
  tropical

Paraguay:
  subtropical to temperate; substantial rainfall in the
  eastern portions, becoming semiarid in the far west

Peru:
  varies from tropical in east to dry desert in west; temperate
  to frigid in Andes

Philippines:
  tropical marine; northeast monsoon (November to April);
  southwest monsoon (May to October)

Pitcairn Islands:
  tropical, hot, humid; modified by southeast trade
  winds; rainy season (November to March)

Poland:
  temperate with cold, cloudy, moderately severe winters with
  frequent precipitation; mild summers with frequent showers and
  thundershowers

Portugal:
  maritime temperate; cool and rainy in north, warmer and
  drier in south

Puerto Rico:
  tropical marine, mild; little seasonal temperature
  variation

Qatar:
  desert; hot, dry; humid and sultry in summer

Reunion:
  tropical, but temperature moderates with elevation; cool
  and dry from May to November, hot and rainy from November to April

Romania:
  temperate; cold, cloudy winters with frequent snow and fog;
  sunny summers with frequent showers and thunderstorms

Russia:
  ranges from steppes in the south through humid continental
  in much of European Russia; subarctic in Siberia to tundra climate
  in the polar north; winters vary from cool along Black Sea coast to
  frigid in Siberia; summers vary from warm in the steppes to cool
  along Arctic coast

Rwanda:
  temperate; two rainy seasons (February to April, November to
  January); mild in mountains with frost and snow possible

Saint Helena:
  Saint Helena - tropical; marine; mild, tempered by
  trade winds; Tristan da Cunha - temperate; marine, mild, tempered by
  trade winds (tends to be cooler than Saint Helena)

Saint Kitts and Nevis:
  tropical tempered by constant sea breezes;
  little seasonal temperature variation; rainy season (May to November)

Saint Lucia:
  tropical, moderated by northeast trade winds; dry
  season from January to April, rainy season from May to August

Saint Pierre and Miquelon:
  cold and wet, with much mist and fog;
  spring and autumn are windy

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:
  tropical; little seasonal
  temperature variation; rainy season (May to November)

Samoa:
  tropical; rainy season (October to March), dry season (May to
  October)

San Marino:
  Mediterranean; mild to cool winters; warm, sunny summers

Sao Tome and Principe:
  tropical; hot, humid; one rainy season
  (October to May)

Saudi Arabia:
  harsh, dry desert with great extremes of temperature

Senegal:
  tropical; hot, humid; rainy season (May to November) has
  strong southeast winds; dry season (December to April) dominated by
  hot, dry, harmattan wind

Seychelles:
  tropical marine; humid; cooler season during southeast
  monsoon (late May to September); warmer season during northwest
  monsoon (March to May)

Sierra Leone:
  tropical; hot, humid; summer rainy season (May to
  December); winter dry season (December to April)

Singapore:
  tropical; hot, humid, rainy; two distinct monsoon seasons
  - Northeastern monsoon from December to March and Southwestern
  monsoon from June to September; inter-monsoon - frequent afternoon
  and early evening thunderstorms

Slovakia:
  temperate; cool summers; cold, cloudy, humid winters

Slovenia:
  Mediterranean climate on the coast, continental climate
  with mild to hot summers and cold winters in the plateaus and
  valleys to the east

Solomon Islands:
  tropical monsoon; few extremes of temperature and
  weather

Somalia:
  principally desert; December to February - northeast
  monsoon, moderate temperatures in north and very hot in south; May
  to October - southwest monsoon, torrid in the north and hot in the
  south, irregular rainfall, hot and humid periods (tangambili)
  between monsoons

South Africa:
  mostly semiarid; subtropical along east coast; sunny
  days, cool nights

South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands:
  variable, with mostly
  westerly winds throughout the year interspersed with periods of
  calm; nearly all precipitation falls as snow

Southern Ocean:
  sea temperatures vary from about 10 degrees Celsius
  to -2 degrees Celsius; cyclonic storms travel eastward around the
  continent and frequently are intense because of the temperature
  contrast between ice and open ocean; the ocean area from about
  latitude 40 south to the Antarctic Circle has the strongest average
  winds found anywhere on Earth; in winter the ocean freezes outward
  to 65 degrees south latitude in the Pacific sector and 55 degrees
  south latitude in the Atlantic sector, lowering surface temperatures
  well below 0 degrees Celsius; at some coastal points intense
  persistent drainage winds from the interior keep the shoreline
  ice-free throughout the winter

Spain:
  temperate; clear, hot summers in interior, more moderate and
  cloudy along coast; cloudy, cold winters in interior, partly cloudy
  and cool along coast

Spratly Islands:
  tropical

Sri Lanka:
  tropical monsoon; northeast monsoon (December to March);
  southwest monsoon (June to October)

Sudan:
  tropical in south; arid desert in north; rainy season (April
  to October)

Suriname:
  tropical; moderated by trade winds

Svalbard:
  arctic, tempered by warm North Atlantic Current; cool
  summers, cold winters; North Atlantic Current flows along west and
  north coasts of Spitsbergen, keeping water open and navigable most
  of the year

Swaziland:
  varies from tropical to near temperate

Sweden:
  temperate in south with cold, cloudy winters and cool,
  partly cloudy summers; subarctic in north

Switzerland:
  temperate, but varies with altitude; cold, cloudy,
  rainy/snowy winters; cool to warm, cloudy, humid summers with
  occasional showers

Syria:
  mostly desert; hot, dry, sunny summers (June to August) and
  mild, rainy winters (December to February) along coast; cold weather
  with snow or sleet periodically hitting Damascus

Tajikistan:
  midlatitude continental, hot summers, mild winters;
  semiarid to polar in Pamir Mountains

Tanzania:
  varies from tropical along coast to temperate in highlands

Thailand:
  tropical; rainy, warm, cloudy southwest monsoon (mid-May
  to September); dry, cool northeast monsoon (November to mid-March);
  southern isthmus always hot and humid

Togo:
  tropical; hot, humid in south; semiarid in north

Tokelau:
  tropical; moderated by trade winds (April to November)

Tonga:
  tropical; modified by trade winds; warm season (December to
  May), cool season (May to December)

Trinidad and Tobago:
  tropical; rainy season (June to December)

Tromelin Island:
  tropical

Tunisia:
  temperate in north with mild, rainy winters and hot, dry
  summers; desert in south

Turkey:
  temperate; hot, dry summers with mild, wet winters; harsher
  in interior

Turkmenistan:
  subtropical desert

Turks and Caicos Islands:
  tropical; marine; moderated by trade
  winds; sunny and relatively dry

Tuvalu:
  tropical; moderated by easterly trade winds (March to
  November); westerly gales and heavy rain (November to March)

Uganda:
  tropical; generally rainy with two dry seasons (December to
  February, June to August); semiarid in northeast

Ukraine:
  temperate continental; Mediterranean only on the southern
  Crimean coast; precipitation disproportionately distributed, highest
  in west and north, lesser in east and southeast; winters vary from
  cool along the Black Sea to cold farther inland; summers are warm
  across the greater part of the country, hot in the south

United Arab Emirates:
  desert; cooler in eastern mountains

United Kingdom:
  temperate; moderated by prevailing southwest winds
  over the North Atlantic Current; more than one-half of the days are
  overcast

United States:
  mostly temperate, but tropical in Hawaii and Florida,
  arctic in Alaska, semiarid in the great plains west of the
  Mississippi River, and arid in the Great Basin of the southwest; low
  winter temperatures in the northwest are ameliorated occasionally in
  January and February by warm chinook winds from the eastern slopes
  of the Rocky Mountains

Uruguay:
  warm temperate; freezing temperatures almost unknown

Uzbekistan:
  mostly midlatitude desert, long, hot summers, mild
  winters; semiarid grassland in east

Vanuatu:
  tropical; moderated by southeast trade winds

Venezuela:
  tropical; hot, humid; more moderate in highlands

Vietnam:
  tropical in south; monsoonal in north with hot, rainy
  season (mid-May to mid-September) and warm, dry season (mid-October
  to mid-March)

Virgin Islands:
  subtropical, tempered by easterly trade winds,
  relatively low humidity, little seasonal temperature variation;
  rainy season May to November

Wake Island:
  tropical

Wallis and Futuna:
  tropical; hot, rainy season (November to April);
  cool, dry season (May to October); rains 2,500-3,000 mm per year
  (80% humidity); average temperature 26.6 degrees C

West Bank:
  temperate, temperature and precipitation vary with
  altitude, warm to hot summers, cool to mild winters

Western Sahara:
  hot, dry desert; rain is rare; cold offshore air
  currents produce fog and heavy dew

World:
  two large areas of polar climates separated by two rather
  narrow temperate zones from a wide equatorial band of tropical to
  subtropical climates

Yemen:
  mostly desert; hot and humid along west coast; temperate in
  western mountains affected by seasonal monsoon; extraordinarily hot,
  dry, harsh desert in east

Yugoslavia:
  in the north, continental climate (cold winters and hot,
  humid summers with well distributed rainfall); central portion,
  continental and Mediterranean climate; to the south, Adriatic
  climate along the coast, hot, dry summers and autumns and relatively
  cold winters with heavy snowfall inland

Zambia:
  tropical; modified by altitude; rainy season (October to
  April)

Zimbabwe:
  tropical; moderated by altitude; rainy season (November to
  March)

Taiwan:
  tropical; marine; rainy season during southwest monsoon
  (June to August); cloudiness is persistent and extensive all year

======================================================================

@Coastline



Afghanistan:
  0 km (landlocked)

Albania:
  362 km

Algeria:
  998 km

American Samoa:
  116 km

Andorra:
  0 km (landlocked)

Angola:
  1,600 km

Anguilla:
  61 km

Antarctica:
  17,968 km

Antigua and Barbuda:
  153 km

Arctic Ocean:
  45,389 km

Argentina:
  4,989 km

Armenia:
  0 km (landlocked)

Aruba:
  68.5 km

Ashmore and Cartier Islands:
  74.1 km

Atlantic Ocean:
  111,866 km

Australia:
  25,760 km

Austria:
  0 km (landlocked)

Azerbaijan:
  0 km (landlocked); note - Azerbaijan borders the Caspian
  Sea (800 km, est.)

Bahamas, The:
  3,542 km

Bahrain:
  161 km

Baker Island:
  4.8 km

Bangladesh:
  580 km

Barbados:
  97 km

Bassas da India:
  35.2 km

Belarus:
  0 km (landlocked)

Belgium:
  66 km

Belize:
  386 km

Benin:
  121 km

Bermuda:
  103 km

Bhutan:
  0 km (landlocked)

Bolivia:
  0 km (landlocked)

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  20 km

Botswana:
  0 km (landlocked)

Bouvet Island:
  29.6 km

Brazil:
  7,491 km

British Indian Ocean Territory:
  698 km

British Virgin Islands:
  80 km

Brunei:
  161 km

Bulgaria:
  354 km

Burkina Faso:
  0 km (landlocked)

Burma:
  1,930 km

Burundi:
  0 km (landlocked)

Cambodia:
  443 km

Cameroon:
  402 km

Canada:
  243,791 km

Cape Verde:
  965 km

Cayman Islands:
  160 km

Central African Republic:
  0 km (landlocked)

Chad:
  0 km (landlocked)

Chile:
  6,435 km

China:
  14,500 km

Christmas Island:
  138.9 km

Clipperton Island:
  11.1 km

Cocos (Keeling) Islands:
  2.6 km

Colombia:
  3,208 km (Caribbean Sea 1,760 km, North Pacific Ocean
  1,448 km)

Comoros:
  340 km

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  37 km

Congo, Republic of the:
  169 km

Cook Islands:
  120 km

Coral Sea Islands:
  3,095 km

Costa Rica:
  1,290 km

Cote d'Ivoire:
  515 km

Croatia:
  5,835 km (mainland 1,777 km, islands 4,058 km)

Cuba:
  3,735 km

Cyprus:
  648 km

Czech Republic:
  0 km (landlocked)

Denmark:
  7,314 km

Djibouti:
  314 km

Dominica:
  148 km

Dominican Republic:
  1,288 km

Ecuador:
  2,237 km

Egypt:
  2,450 km

El Salvador:
  307 km

Equatorial Guinea:
  296 km

Eritrea:
  2,234 km total; mainland on Red Sea 1,151 km, islands in
  Red Sea 1,083 km

Estonia:
  3,794 km

Ethiopia:
  0 km (landlocked)

Europa Island:
  22.2 km

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas):
  1,288 km

Faroe Islands:
  1,117 km

Fiji:
  1,129 km

Finland:
  1,126 km (excludes islands and coastal indentations)

France:
  3,427 km

French Guiana:
  378 km

French Polynesia:
  2,525 km

French Southern and Antarctic Lands:
  1,232 km

Gabon:
  885 km

Gambia, The:
  80 km

Gaza Strip:
  40 km

Georgia:
  310 km

Germany:
  2,389 km

Ghana:
  539 km

Gibraltar:
  12 km

Glorioso Islands:
  35.2 km

Greece:
  13,676 km

Greenland:
  44,087 km

Grenada:
  121 km

Guadeloupe:
  306 km

Guam:
  125.5 km

Guatemala:
  400 km

Guernsey:
  50 km

Guinea:
  320 km

Guinea-Bissau:
  350 km

Guyana:
  459 km

Haiti:
  1,771 km

Heard Island and McDonald Islands:
  101.9 km

Holy See (Vatican City):
  0 km (landlocked)

Honduras:
  820 km

Hong Kong:
  733 km

Howland Island:
  6.4 km

Hungary:
  0 km (landlocked)

Iceland:
  4,988 km

India:
  7,000 km

Indian Ocean:
  66,526 km

Indonesia:
  54,716 km

Iran:
  2,440 km; note - Iran also borders the Caspian Sea (740 km)

Iraq:
  58 km

Ireland:
  1,448 km

Israel:
  273 km

Italy:
  7,600 km

Jamaica:
  1,022 km

Jan Mayen:
  124.1 km

Japan:
  29,751 km

Jarvis Island:
  8 km

Jersey:
  70 km

Johnston Atoll:
  10 km

Jordan:
  26 km

Juan de Nova Island:
  24.1 km

Kazakhstan:
  0 km (landlocked); note - Kazakhstan borders the Aral
  Sea, now split into two bodies of water (1,070 km), and the Caspian
  Sea (1,894 km)

Kenya:
  536 km

Kingman Reef:
  3 km

Kiribati:
  1,143 km

Korea, North:
  2,495 km

Korea, South:
  2,413 km

Kuwait:
  499 km

Kyrgyzstan:
  0 km (landlocked)

Laos:
  0 km (landlocked)

Latvia:
  531 km

Lebanon:
  225 km

Lesotho:
  0 km (landlocked)

Liberia:
  579 km

Libya:
  1,770 km

Liechtenstein:
  0 km (landlocked)

Lithuania:
  99 km

Luxembourg:
  0 km (landlocked)

Macau:
  40 km

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  0 km (landlocked)

Madagascar:
  4,828 km

Malawi:
  0 km (landlocked)

Malaysia:
  4,675 km (Peninsular Malaysia 2,068 km, East Malaysia
  2,607 km)

Maldives:
  644 km

Mali:
  0 km (landlocked)

Malta:
  196.8 km (does not include 56.01 km for the island of Gozo)

Man, Isle of:
  160 km

Marshall Islands:
  370.4 km

Martinique:
  350 km

Mauritania:
  754 km

Mauritius:
  177 km

Mayotte:
  185.2 km

Mexico:
  9,330 km

Micronesia, Federated States of:
  6,112 km

Midway Islands:
  15 km

Moldova:
  0 km (landlocked)

Monaco:
  4.1 km

Mongolia:
  0 km (landlocked)

Montserrat:
  40 km

Morocco:
  1,835 km

Mozambique:
  2,470 km

Namibia:
  1,572 km

Nauru:
  30 km

Navassa Island:
  8 km

Nepal:
  0 km (landlocked)

Netherlands:
  451 km

Netherlands Antilles:
  364 km

New Caledonia:
  2,254 km

New Zealand:
  15,134 km

Nicaragua:
  910 km

Niger:
  0 km (landlocked)

Nigeria:
  853 km

Niue:
  64 km

Norfolk Island:
  32 km

Northern Mariana Islands:
  1,482 km

Norway:
  21,925 km (includes mainland 3,419 km, large islands 2,413
  km, long fjords, numerous small islands, and minor indentations
  16,093 km)

Oman:
  2,092 km

Pacific Ocean:
  135,663 km

Pakistan:
  1,046 km

Palau:
  1,519 km

Palmyra Atoll:
  14.5 km

Panama:
  2,490 km

Papua New Guinea:
  5,152 km

Paracel Islands:
  518 km

Paraguay:
  0 km (landlocked)

Peru:
  2,414 km

Philippines:
  36,289 km

Pitcairn Islands:
  51 km

Poland:
  491 km

Portugal:
  1,793 km

Puerto Rico:
  501 km

Qatar:
  563 km

Reunion:
  207 km

Romania:
  225 km

Russia:
  37,653 km

Rwanda:
  0 km (landlocked)

Saint Helena:
  60 km

Saint Kitts and Nevis:
  135 km

Saint Lucia:
  158 km

Saint Pierre and Miquelon:
  120 km

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:
  84 km

Samoa:
  403 km

San Marino:
  0 km (landlocked)

Sao Tome and Principe:
  209 km

Saudi Arabia:
  2,640 km

Senegal:
  531 km

Seychelles:
  491 km

Sierra Leone:
  402 km

Singapore:
  193 km

Slovakia:
  0 km (landlocked)

Slovenia:
  46.6 km

Solomon Islands:
  5,313 km

Somalia:
  3,025 km

South Africa:
  2,798 km

South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands:
  NA km

Southern Ocean:
  17,968 km

Spain:
  4,964 km

Spratly Islands:
  926 km

Sri Lanka:
  1,340 km

Sudan:
  853 km

Suriname:
  386 km

Svalbard:
  3,587 km

Swaziland:
  0 km (landlocked)

Sweden:
  3,218 km

Switzerland:
  0 km (landlocked)

Syria:
  193 km

Tajikistan:
  0 km (landlocked)

Tanzania:
  1,424 km

Thailand:
  3,219 km

Togo:
  56 km

Tokelau:
  101 km

Tonga:
  419 km

Trinidad and Tobago:
  362 km

Tromelin Island:
  3.7 km

Tunisia:
  1,148 km

Turkey:
  7,200 km

Turkmenistan:
  0 km; note - Turkmenistan borders the Caspian Sea
  (1,768 km)

Turks and Caicos Islands:
  389 km

Tuvalu:
  24 km

Uganda:
  0 km (landlocked)

Ukraine:
  2,782 km

United Arab Emirates:
  1,318 km

United Kingdom:
  12,429 km

United States:
  19,924 km

Uruguay:
  660 km

Uzbekistan:
  0 km; note - Uzbekistan includes the southern portion of
  the Aral Sea with a 420 km shoreline

Vanuatu:
  2,528 km

Venezuela:
  2,800 km

Vietnam:
  3,444 km (excludes islands)

Virgin Islands:
  188 km

Wake Island:
  19.3 km

Wallis and Futuna:
  129 km

West Bank:
  0 km (landlocked)

Western Sahara:
  1,110 km

World:
  356,000 km

Yemen:
  1,906 km

Yugoslavia:
  199 km

Zambia:
  0 km (landlocked)

Zimbabwe:
  0 km (landlocked)

Taiwan:
  1,566.3 km

======================================================================

@Communications - note



Bouvet Island:
  automatic meteorological station

Coral Sea Islands:
  there are automatic weather stations on many of
  the isles and reefs relaying data to the mainland

Europa Island:
  1 meteorological station

Glorioso Islands:
  1 meteorological station

Juan de Nova Island:
  1 meteorological station

Saint Helena:
  Gough Island has a meteorological station

Tromelin Island:
  important meteorological station

======================================================================

@Constitution



Afghanistan:
  none

Albania:
  a new constitution was adopted by popular referendum on 28
  November 1998; note - the opposition Democratic Party boycotted the
  vote

Algeria:
  19 November 1976, effective 22 November 1976; revised 3
  November 1988, 23 February 1989, and 28 November 1996; note -
  referendum approving the revisions of 28 November 1996 was signed
  into law 7 December 1996

American Samoa:
  ratified 1966, in effect 1967

Andorra:
  Andorra's first written constitution was drafted in 1991;
  approved by referendum 14 March 1993; came into force 4 May 1993

Angola:
  11 November 1975; revised 7 January 1978, 11 August 1980, 6
  March 1991, and 26 August 1992

Anguilla:
  Anguilla Constitutional Order 1 April 1982; amended 1990

Antigua and Barbuda:
  1 November 1981

Argentina:
  1 May 1853; revised August 1994

Armenia:
  adopted by nationwide referendum 5 July 1995

Aruba:
  1 January 1986

Australia:
  9 July 1900, effective 1 January 1901

Austria:
  1920; revised 1929 (reinstated 1 May 1945)

Azerbaijan:
  adopted 12 November 1995

Bahamas, The:
  10 July 1973

Bahrain:
  adopted late December 2000 (new constitution calls for a
  partially elected legislature, a constitutional monarchy, and an
  independent judiciary)

Bangladesh:
  4 November 1972, effective 16 December 1972, suspended
  following coup of 24 March 1982, restored 10 November 1986, amended
  many times

Barbados:
  30 November 1966

Belarus:
  30 March 1994; revised by national referendum of 24
  November 1996 giving the presidency greatly expanded powers and
  became effective 27 November 1996

Belgium:
  7 February 1831, last revised 14 July 1993; parliament
  approved a constitutional package creating a federal state

Belize:
  21 September 1981

Benin:
  December 1990

Bermuda:
  8 June 1968, amended 1989

Bhutan:
  no written constitution or bill of rights; note - Bhutan
  uses 1953 Royal decree for the Constitution of the National
  Assembly; on 7 July 1998, a Royal edict was ratified giving the
  National Assembly additional powers

Bolivia:
  2 February 1967; revised in August 1994

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  the Dayton Agreement, signed 14 December
  1995, included a new constitution now in force

Botswana:
  March 1965, effective 30 September 1966

Brazil:
  5 October 1988

British Virgin Islands:
  1 June 1977

Brunei:
  29 September 1959 (some provisions suspended under a State
  of Emergency since December 1962, others since independence on 1
  January 1984)

Bulgaria:
  adopted 12 July 1991

Burkina Faso:
  2 June 1991 approved by referendum; 11 June 1991
  formally adopted

Burma:
  3 January 1974 (suspended since 18 September 1988); national
  convention started on 9 January 1993 to draft a new constitution;
  progress has since been stalled

Burundi:
  13 March 1992; provided for establishment of a plural
  political system; supplanted on 6 June 1998 by a Transitional
  Constitution which enlarged the National Assembly and created two
  vice presidents

Cambodia:
  promulgated 21 September 1993

Cameroon:
  20 May 1972 approved by referendum; 2 June 1972 formally
  adopted; revised January 1996

Canada:
  17 April 1982 (Constitution Act); originally, the machinery
  of the government was set up in the British North America Act of
  1867; charter of rights and unwritten customs

Cape Verde:
  new constitution came into force 25 September 1992;
  underwent a major revision on 23 November 1995, substantially
  increasing the powers of the president

Cayman Islands:
  1959, revised 1972 and 1992

Central African Republic:
  passed by referendum 29 December 1994;
  adopted 7 January 1995

Chad:
  passed by referendum 31 March 1995

Chile:
  11 September 1980, effective 11 March 1981, amended 30 July
  1989, 1993, and 1997

China:
  most recent promulgation 4 December 1982

Christmas Island:
  Christmas Island Act of 1958

Cocos (Keeling) Islands:
  Cocos (Keeling) Islands Act of 1955

Colombia:
  5 July 1991

Comoros:
  20 October 1996

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  24 June 1967, amended August
  1974, revised 15 February 1978, amended April 1990; transitional
  constitution promulgated in April 1994; in November 1998, a draft
  constitution was approved by former President Laurent KABILA but it
  has not been ratified by a national referendum

Congo, Republic of the:
  Draft constitution approved by transitional
  parliament in September 2000

Cook Islands:
  4 August 1965

Costa Rica:
  7 November 1949

Cote d'Ivoire:
  3 November 1960; has been amended numerous times,
  last time 27 July 1998

Croatia:
  adopted on 22 December 1990

Cuba:
  24 February 1976, amended July 1992

Cyprus:
  16 August 1960; negotiations to create the basis for a new
  or revised constitution to govern the island and to better relations
  between Greek and Turkish Cypriots have been held intermittently; in
  1975 Turkish Cypriots created their own constitution and governing
  bodies within the "Turkish Federated State of Cyprus," which was
  renamed the "Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus" in 1983; a new
  constitution for the Turkish Cypriot area passed by referendum on 5
  May 1985

Czech Republic:
  ratified 16 December 1992; effective 1 January 1993

Denmark:
  1849 was the original constitution; there was a major
  overhaul 5 June 1953, allowing for a unicameral legislature and a
  female chief of state

Djibouti:
  multiparty constitution approved by referendum 4 September
  1992

Dominica:
  3 November 1978

Dominican Republic:
  28 November 1966

Ecuador:
  10 August 1998

Egypt:
  11 September 1971

El Salvador:
  23 December 1983

Equatorial Guinea:
  approved by national referendum 17 November 1991;
  amended January 1995

Eritrea:
  the transitional constitution, decreed on 19 May 1993, was
  replaced by a new constitution adopted on 23 May 1997, but not yet
  implemented

Estonia:
  adopted 28 June 1992

Ethiopia:
  ratified December 1994; effective 22 August 1995

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas):
  3 October 1985; amended 1997 and
  1998

Faroe Islands:
  5 June 1953 (Danish constitution)

Fiji:
  10 October 1970 (suspended 1 October 1987); a new constitution
  was proposed on 23 September 1988 and promulgated on 25 July 1990;
  amended 25 July 1997 to allow nonethnic Fijians greater say in
  government and to make multiparty government mandatory; entered into
  force 28 July 1998; note - the May 1999 election was the first test
  of the amended constitution and introduced open voting - not
  racially prescribed - for the first time at the national level

Finland:
  17 July 1919

France:
  28 September 1958, amended concerning election of president
  in 1962, amended to comply with provisions of EC Maastricht Treaty
  in 1992; amended to tighten immigration laws 1993

French Guiana:
  28 September 1958 (French Constitution)

French Polynesia:
  28 September 1958 (French Constitution)

Gabon:
  adopted 14 March 1991

Gambia, The:
  24 April 1970; suspended July 1994; rewritten and
  approved by national referendum 8 August 1996; reestablished in
  January 1997

Georgia:
  adopted 17 October 1995

Germany:
  23 May 1949, known as Basic Law; became constitution of the
  united German people 3 October 1990

Ghana:
  new constitution approved 28 April 1992

Gibraltar:
  30 May 1969

Greece:
  11 June 1975; amended March 1986

Greenland:
  5 June 1953 (Danish constitution)

Grenada:
  19 December 1973

Guadeloupe:
  28 September 1958 (French Constitution)

Guam:
  Organic Act of 1 August 1950

Guatemala:
  31 May 1985, effective 14 January 1986; note - suspended
  25 May 1993 by former President SERRANO; reinstated 5 June 1993
  following ouster of president; amended November 1993

Guernsey:
  unwritten; partly statutes, partly common law and practice

Guinea:
  23 December 1990 (Loi Fundamentale)

Guinea-Bissau:
  16 May 1984, amended 4 May 1991, 4 December 1991, 26
  February 1993, 9 June 1993, and 1996

Guyana:
  6 October 1980

Haiti:
  approved March 1987; suspended June 1988, with most articles
  reinstated March 1989; in October 1991, government claimed to be
  observing the constitution; return to constitutional rule, October
  1994

Holy See (Vatican City):
  Apostolic Constitution of 1967 (effective 1
  March 1968)

Honduras:
  11 January 1982, effective 20 January 1982; amended 1995

Hong Kong:
  Basic Law approved in March 1990 by China's National
  People's Congress is Hong Kong's "mini-constitution"

Hungary:
  18 August 1949, effective 20 August 1949, revised 19 April
  1972; 18 October 1989 revision ensured legal rights for individuals
  and constitutional checks on the authority of the prime minister and
  also established the principle of parliamentary oversight; 1997
  amendment streamlined the judicial system

Iceland:
  16 June 1944, effective 17 June 1944

India:
  26 January 1950

Indonesia:
  August 1945, abrogated by Federal Constitution of 1949
  and Provisional Constitution of 1950, restored 5 July 1959

Iran:
  2-3 December 1979; revised 1989 to expand powers of the
  presidency and eliminate the prime ministership

Iraq:
  22 September 1968, effective 16 July 1970 (provisional
  constitution); new constitution drafted in 1990 but not adopted

Ireland:
  29 December 1937; adopted 1 July 1937 by plebiscite

Israel:
  no formal constitution; some of the functions of a
  constitution are filled by the Declaration of Establishment (1948),
  the Basic Laws of the parliament (Knesset), and the Israeli
  citizenship law

Italy:
  1 January 1948

Jamaica:
  6 August 1962

Japan:
  3 May 1947

Jersey:
  unwritten; partly statutes, partly common law and practice

Jordan:
  8 January 1952

Kazakhstan:
  adopted by national referendum 30 August 1995; first
  post-independence constitution was adopted 28 January 1993

Kenya:
  12 December 1963, amended as a republic 1964; reissued with
  amendments 1979, 1983, 1986, 1988, 1991, 1992, and 1997

Kiribati:
  12 July 1979

Korea, North:
  adopted 1948, completely revised 27 December 1972,
  revised again in April 1992 and September 1998

Korea, South:
  25 February 1988

Kuwait:
  approved and promulgated 11 November 1962

Kyrgyzstan:
  adopted 5 May 1993; note - amendment proposed by
  President AKAYEV and passed in a national referendum on 10 February
  1996 significantly expands the powers of the president at the
  expense of the legislature

Laos:
  promulgated 14 August 1991

Latvia:
  the 1991 Constitutional Law which supplements the 1922
  constitution, provides for basic rights and freedoms

Lebanon:
  23 May 1926, amended a number of times, most recently
  Charter of Lebanese National Reconciliation (Taif Accord) of October
  1989

Lesotho:
  2 April 1993

Liberia:
  6 January 1986

Libya:
  11 December 1969, amended 2 March 1977

Liechtenstein:
  5 October 1921

Lithuania:
  adopted 25 October 1992

Luxembourg:
  17 October 1868, occasional revisions

Macau:
  Basic Law, approved in March 1993 by China's National
  People's Congress, is Macau's "mini-constitution"

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  adopted 17 November
  1991, effective 20 November 1991

  note:  Democratic Party for Albanians (DPA), which is now a member
  party of the government, is calling for a rewrite of the
  constitution to declare ethnic Albanians a constituent national
  group and allow for greater regional autonomy

Madagascar:
  19 August 1992 by national referendum

Malawi:
  18 May 1994

Malaysia:
  31 August 1957, amended 16 September 1963

Maldives:
  adopted January 1998

Mali:
  adopted 12 January 1992

Malta:
  1964 constitution substantially amended on 13 December 1974

Man, Isle of:
  unwritten; note - The Isle of Man Constitution Act,
  1961, does not embody the Manx Constitution

Marshall Islands:
  1 May 1979

Martinique:
  28 September 1958 (French Constitution)

Mauritania:
  12 July 1991

Mauritius:
  12 March 1968; amended 12 March 1992

Mayotte:
  28 September 1958 (French Constitution)

Mexico:
  5 February 1917

Micronesia, Federated States of:
  10 May 1979

Moldova:
  new constitution adopted 28 July 1994; replaces old Soviet
  constitution of 1979

Monaco:
  17 December 1962

Mongolia:
  12 February 1992

Montserrat:
  present constitution came into force 19 December 1989

Morocco:
  10 March 1972, revised 4 September 1992, amended (to create
  bicameral legislature) September 1996

Mozambique:
  30 November 1990

Namibia:
  ratified 9 February 1990; effective 12 March 1990

Nauru:
  29 January 1968

Nepal:
  9 November 1990

Netherlands:
  adopted 1814; amended many times, last time 17 February
  1983

Netherlands Antilles:
  29 December 1954, Statute of the Realm of the
  Netherlands, as amended

New Caledonia:
  28 September 1958 (French Constitution)

New Zealand:
  consists of a series of legal documents, including
  certain acts of the UK and New Zealand Parliaments and The
  Constitution Act 1986 which is the principal formal charter

Nicaragua:
  9 January 1987, with reforms in 1995 and 2000

Niger:
  the constitution of January 1993 was revised by national
  referendum on 12 May 1996 and again by referendum on 18 July 1999

Nigeria:
  NA 1999 new constitution adopted

Niue:
  19 October 1974 (Niue Constitution Act)

Norfolk Island:
  Norfolk Island Act of 1979

Northern Mariana Islands:
  Covenant Agreement effective 4 November
  1986 and the Constitution of the Commonwealth of the Northern
  Mariana Islands effective 1 January 1978

Norway:
  17 May 1814, modified in 1884

Oman:
  none; note - on 6 November 1996, Sultan QABOOS issued a royal
  decree promulgating a new basic law which, among other things,
  clarifies the royal succession, provides for a prime minister, bars
  ministers from holding interests in companies doing business with
  the government, establishes a bicameral legislature, and guarantees
  basic civil liberties for Omani citizens

Pakistan:
  10 April 1973, suspended 5 July 1977, restored with
  amendments 30 December 1985; suspended 15 October 1999

Palau:
  1 January 1981

Panama:
  11 October 1972; major reforms adopted 1978, 1983 and 1994

Papua New Guinea:
  16 September 1975

Paraguay:
  promulgated 20 June 1992

Peru:
  31 December 1993

Philippines:
  2 February 1987, effective 11 February 1987

Pitcairn Islands:
  1838; reformed 1904 with additional reforms in
  1940; further refined by the Local Government Ordinance of 1964

Poland:
  16 October 1997; adopted by the National Assembly 2 April
  1997; passed by national referendum 23 May 1997

Portugal:
  25 April 1976, revised 30 October 1982, 1 June 1989, 5
  November 1992, and 3 September 1997

Puerto Rico:
  ratified 3 March 1952; approved by US Congress 3 July
  1952; effective 25 July 1952

Qatar:
  provisional constitution enacted 19 April 1972; in July 1999
  Amir HAMAD issued a decree forming a committee to draft a permanent
  constitution

Reunion:
  28 September 1958 (French Constitution)

Romania:
  8 December 1991

Russia:
  adopted 12 December 1993

Rwanda:
  on 5 May 1995, the Transitional National Assembly adopted as
  Fundamental Law the constitution of 18 June 1991, provisions of the
  1993 Arusha peace accord, the July 1994 Declaration by the Rwanda
  Patriotic Front, and the November 1994 multiparty protocol of
  understanding

Saint Helena:
  1 January 1989

Saint Kitts and Nevis:
  19 September 1983

Saint Lucia:
  22 February 1979

Saint Pierre and Miquelon:
  28 September 1958 (French Constitution)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:
  27 October 1979

Samoa:
  1 January 1962

San Marino:
  8 October 1600; electoral law of 1926 serves some of the
  functions of a constitution

Sao Tome and Principe:
  approved March 1990; effective 10 September
  1990

Saudi Arabia:
  governed according to Shari'a (Islamic law); the Basic
  Law that articulates the government's rights and responsibilities
  was introduced in 1993

Senegal:
  3 March 1963, revised 1991

Seychelles:
  18 June 1993

Sierra Leone:
  1 October 1991; subsequently amended several times

Singapore:
  3 June 1959, amended 1965 (based on preindependence State
  of Singapore Constitution)

Slovakia:
  ratified 1 September 1992, fully effective 1 January 1993;
  changed in September 1998 to allow direct election of the president;
  amended February 2001 to allow Slovakia to apply for NATO and EU
  membership

Slovenia:
  adopted 23 December 1991, effective 23 December 1991

Solomon Islands:
  7 July 1978

Somalia:
  25 August 1979, presidential approval 23 September 1979

  note:  the Transitional National Government formed in October 2000
  has a mandate to create a new constitution and hold elections within
  three years

South Africa:
  10 December 1996; this new constitution was certified
  by the Constitutional Court on 4 December 1996, was signed by then
  President MANDELA on 10 December 1996, and entered into effect on 3
  February 1997; it is being implemented in phases

South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands:
  adopted 3 October 1985

Spain:
  6 December 1978, effective 29 December 1978

Sri Lanka:
  adopted 16 August 1978

Sudan:
  12 April 1973, suspended following coup of 6 April 1985;
  interim constitution of 10 October 1985 suspended following coup of
  30 June 1989; new constitution implemented on 30 June 1998 partially
  suspended 12 December 1999 by President BASHIR

Suriname:
  ratified 30 September 1987

Swaziland:
  none; constitution of 6 September 1968 was suspended 12
  April 1973; a new constitution was promulgated 13 October 1978, but
  was not formally presented to the people; since then a few more
  outlines for a constitution have been compiled under the
  Constitutional Review Commission (CRC), but so far none have been
  accepted

Sweden:
  1 January 1975

Switzerland:
  29 May 1874

Syria:
  13 March 1973

Tajikistan:
  6 November 1994

Tanzania:
  25 April 1977; major revisions October 1984

Thailand:
  new constitution signed by King PHUMIPHON on 11 October
  1997

Togo:
  multiparty draft constitution approved by High Council of the
  Republic 1 July 1992; adopted by public referendum 27 September 1992

Tokelau:
  administered under the Tokelau Islands Act of 1948, as
  amended in 1970

Tonga:
  4 November 1875, revised 1 January 1967

Trinidad and Tobago:
  1 August 1976

Tunisia:
  1 June 1959; amended 12 July 1988

Turkey:
  7 November 1982

Turkmenistan:
  adopted 18 May 1992

Turks and Caicos Islands:
  introduced 30 August 1976; suspended in
  1986; restored and revised 5 March 1988

Tuvalu:
  1 October 1978

Uganda:
  8 October 1995; adopted by the interim, 284-member
  Constituent Assembly, charged with debating the draft constitution
  that had been proposed in May 1993; the Constituent Assembly was
  dissolved upon the promulgation of the constitution in October 1995

Ukraine:
  adopted 28 June 1996

United Arab Emirates:
  2 December 1971 (made permanent in 1996)

United Kingdom:
  unwritten; partly statutes, partly common law and
  practice

United States:
  17 September 1787, effective 4 March 1789

Uruguay:
  27 November 1966, effective February 1967, suspended 27
  June 1973, new constitution rejected by referendum 30 November 1980;
  two constitutional reforms approved by plebiscite 26 November 1989
  and 7 January 1997

Uzbekistan:
  new constitution adopted 8 December 1992

Vanuatu:
  30 July 1980

Venezuela:
  30 December 1999

Vietnam:
  15 April 1992

Virgin Islands:
  Revised Organic Act of 22 July 1954

Wallis and Futuna:
  28 September 1958 (French Constitution)

Yemen:
  16 May 1991; amended 29 September 1994 and February 2001

Yugoslavia:
  27 April 1992

Zambia:
  2 August 1991

Zimbabwe:
  21 December 1979

Taiwan:
  1 January 1947, amended in 1992, 1994, 1997, and 1999

======================================================================

@Country name



Afghanistan:
  conventional long form:  Islamic State of Afghanistan;
  note - the self-proclaimed Taliban government refers to the country
  as Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan

  conventional short form:  Afghanistan

  local long form:  Dowlat-e Eslami-ye Afghanestan

  local short form:  Afghanestan

  former:  Republic of Afghanistan

Albania:
  conventional long form:  Republic of Albania

  conventional short form:  Albania

  local long form:  Republika e Shqiperise

  local short form:  Shqiperia

  former:  People's Socialist Republic of Albania

Algeria:
  conventional long form:  People's Democratic Republic of
  Algeria

  conventional short form:  Algeria

  local long form:  Al Jumhuriyah al Jaza'iriyah ad Dimuqratiyah ash
  Sha'biyah

  local short form:  Al Jaza'ir

American Samoa:
  conventional long form:  Territory of American Samoa

  conventional short form:  American Samoa

  abbreviation:  AS

Andorra:
  conventional long form:  Principality of Andorra

  conventional short form:  Andorra

  local long form:  Principat d'Andorra

  local short form:  Andorra

Angola:
  conventional long form:  Republic of Angola

  conventional short form:  Angola

  local long form:  Republica de Angola

  local short form:  Angola

  former:  People's Republic of Angola

Anguilla:
  conventional long form:  none

  conventional short form:  Anguilla

Antarctica:
  conventional long form:  none

  conventional short form:  Antarctica

Antigua and Barbuda:
  conventional long form:  none

  conventional short form:  Antigua and Barbuda

Argentina:
  conventional long form:  Argentine Republic

  conventional short form:  Argentina

  local long form:  Republica Argentina

  local short form:  Argentina

Armenia:
  conventional long form:  Republic of Armenia

  conventional short form:  Armenia

  local long form:  Hayastani Hanrapetut'yun

  local short form:  Hayastan

  former:  Armenian Soviet Socialist Republic; Armenian Republic

Aruba:
  conventional long form:  none

  conventional short form:  Aruba

Ashmore and Cartier Islands:
  conventional long form:  Territory of
  Ashmore and Cartier Islands

  conventional short form:  Ashmore and Cartier Islands

Australia:
  conventional long form:  Commonwealth of Australia

  conventional short form:  Australia

Austria:
  conventional long form:  Republic of Austria

  conventional short form:  Austria

  local long form:  Republik Oesterreich

  local short form:  Oesterreich

Azerbaijan:
  conventional long form:  Republic of Azerbaijan

  conventional short form:  Azerbaijan

  local long form:  Azarbaycan Respublikasi

  local short form:  none

  former:  Azerbaijan Soviet Socialist Republic

Bahamas, The:
  conventional long form:  Commonwealth of The Bahamas

  conventional short form:  The Bahamas

Bahrain:
  conventional long form:  State of Bahrain

  conventional short form:  Bahrain

  local long form:  Dawlat al Bahrayn

  local short form:  Al Bahrayn

  former:  Dilmun

Baker Island:
  conventional long form:  none

  conventional short form:  Baker Island

Bangladesh:
  conventional long form:  People's Republic of Bangladesh

  conventional short form:  Bangladesh

  former:  East Pakistan

Barbados:
  conventional long form:  none

  conventional short form:  Barbados

Bassas da India:
  conventional long form:  none

  conventional short form:  Bassas da India

Belarus:
  conventional long form:  Republic of Belarus

  conventional short form:  Belarus

  local long form:  Respublika Byelarus'

  local short form:  none

  former:  Belorussian (Byelorussian) Soviet Socialist Republic

Belgium:
  conventional long form:  Kingdom of Belgium

  conventional short form:  Belgium

  local long form:  Royaume de Belgique/Koninkrijk Belgie

  local short form:  Belgique/Belgie

Belize:
  conventional long form:  none

  conventional short form:  Belize

  former:  British Honduras

Benin:
  conventional long form:  Republic of Benin

  conventional short form:  Benin

  local long form:  Republique du Benin

  local short form:  Benin

  former:  Dahomey

Bermuda:
  conventional long form:  none

  conventional short form:  Bermuda

  former:  Somers Islands

Bhutan:
  conventional long form:  Kingdom of Bhutan

  conventional short form:  Bhutan

Bolivia:
  conventional long form:  Republic of Bolivia

  conventional short form:  Bolivia

  local long form:  Republica de Bolivia

  local short form:  Bolivia

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  conventional long form:  none

  conventional short form:  Bosnia and Herzegovina

  local long form:  none

  local short form:  Bosna i Hercegovina

Botswana:
  conventional long form:  Republic of Botswana

  conventional short form:  Botswana

  former:  Bechuanaland

Bouvet Island:
  conventional long form:  none

  conventional short form:  Bouvet Island

Brazil:
  conventional long form:  Federative Republic of Brazil

  conventional short form:  Brazil

  local long form:  Republica Federativa do Brasil

  local short form:  Brasil

British Indian Ocean Territory:
  conventional long form:  British
  Indian Ocean Territory

  conventional short form:  none

  abbreviation:  BIOT

British Virgin Islands:
  conventional long form:  none

  conventional short form:  British Virgin Islands

  abbreviation:  BVI

Brunei:
  conventional long form:  Negara Brunei Darussalam

  conventional short form:  Brunei

Bulgaria:
  conventional long form:  Republic of Bulgaria

  conventional short form:  Bulgaria

Burkina Faso:
  conventional long form:  none

  conventional short form:  Burkina Faso

  former:  Upper Volta, Republic of Upper Volta

Burma:
  conventional long form:  Union of Burma

  conventional short form:  Burma

  local long form:  Pyidaungzu Myanma Naingngandaw (translated by the
  US Government as Union of Myanma and by the Burmese as Union of
  Myanmar)

  local short form:  Myanma Naingngandaw

  former:  Socialist Republic of the Union of Burma

Burundi:
  conventional long form:  Republic of Burundi

  conventional short form:  Burundi

  local long form:  Republika y'u Burundi

  local short form:  Burundi

  former:  Urundi

Cambodia:
  conventional long form:  Kingdom of Cambodia

  conventional short form:  Cambodia

  local long form:  Preahreacheanachakr Kampuchea

  local short form:  Kampuchea

  former:  Khmer Republic, Kampuchea Republic

Cameroon:
  conventional long form:  Republic of Cameroon

  conventional short form:  Cameroon

  former:  French Cameroon

Canada:
  conventional long form:  none

  conventional short form:  Canada

Cape Verde:
  conventional long form:  Republic of Cape Verde

  conventional short form:  Cape Verde

  local long form:  Republica de Cabo Verde

  local short form:  Cabo Verde

Cayman Islands:
  conventional long form:  none

  conventional short form:  Cayman Islands

Central African Republic:
  conventional long form:  Central African
  Republic

  conventional short form:  none

  local long form:  Republique Centrafricaine

  local short form:  none

  former:  Ubangi-Shari, Central African Empire

  abbreviation:  CAR

Chad:
  conventional long form:  Republic of Chad

  conventional short form:  Chad

  local long form:  Republique du Tchad

  local short form:  Tchad

Chile:
  conventional long form:  Republic of Chile

  conventional short form:  Chile

  local long form:  Republica de Chile

  local short form:  Chile

China:
  conventional long form:  People's Republic of China

  conventional short form:  China

  local long form:  Zhonghua Renmin Gongheguo

  local short form:  Zhong Guo

  abbreviation:  PRC

Christmas Island:
  conventional long form:  Territory of Christmas
  Island

  conventional short form:  Christmas Island

Clipperton Island:
  conventional long form:  none

  conventional short form:  Clipperton Island

  local long form:  none

  local short form:  Ile Clipperton

  former:  sometimes called Ile de la Passion

Cocos (Keeling) Islands:
  conventional long form:  Territory of Cocos
  (Keeling) Islands

  conventional short form:  Cocos (Keeling) Islands

Colombia:
  conventional long form:  Republic of Colombia

  conventional short form:  Colombia

  local long form:  Republica de Colombia

  local short form:  Colombia

Comoros:
  conventional long form:  Federal Islamic Republic of the
  Comoros

  conventional short form:  Comoros

  local long form:  Republique Federale Islamique des Comores

  local short form:  Comores

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  conventional long form:
  Democratic Republic of the Congo

  conventional short form:  none

  local long form:  Republique Democratique du Congo

  local short form:  none

  former:  Congo Free State, Belgian Congo, Congo/Leopoldville,
  Congo/Kinshasa, Zaire

  abbreviation:  DROC

Congo, Republic of the:
  conventional long form:  Republic of the
  Congo

  conventional short form:  none

  local long form:  Republique du Congo

  local short form:  none

  former:  Middle Congo, Congo/Brazzaville, Congo

Cook Islands:
  conventional long form:  none

  conventional short form:  Cook Islands

  former:  Harvey Islands

Coral Sea Islands:
  conventional long form:  Coral Sea Islands
  Territory

  conventional short form:  Coral Sea Islands

Costa Rica:
  conventional long form:  Republic of Costa Rica

  conventional short form:  Costa Rica

  local long form:  Republica de Costa Rica

  local short form:  Costa Rica

Cote d'Ivoire:
  conventional long form:  Republic of Cote d'Ivoire

  conventional short form:  Cote d'Ivoire

  local long form:  Republique de Cote d'Ivoire

  local short form:  Cote d'Ivoire

  former:  Ivory Coast

Croatia:
  conventional long form:  Republic of Croatia

  conventional short form:  Croatia

  local long form:  Republika Hrvatska

  local short form:  Hrvatska

Cuba:
  conventional long form:  Republic of Cuba

  conventional short form:  Cuba

  local long form:  Republica de Cuba

  local short form:  Cuba

Cyprus:
  conventional long form:  Republic of Cyprus

  conventional short form:  Cyprus

  note:  the Turkish Cypriot area refers to itself as the "Turkish
  Republic of Northern Cyprus" (TRNC)

Czech Republic:
  conventional long form:  Czech Republic

  conventional short form:  Czech Republic

  local long form:  Ceska Republika

  local short form:  Ceska Republika

Denmark:
  conventional long form:  Kingdom of Denmark

  conventional short form:  Denmark

  local long form:  Kongeriget Danmark

  local short form:  Danmark

Djibouti:
  conventional long form:  Republic of Djibouti

  conventional short form:  Djibouti

  former:  French Territory of the Afars and Issas, French Somaliland

Dominica:
  conventional long form:  Commonwealth of Dominica

  conventional short form:  Dominica

Dominican Republic:
  conventional long form:  Dominican Republic

  conventional short form:  none

  local long form:  Republica Dominicana

  local short form:  none

Ecuador:
  conventional long form:  Republic of Ecuador

  conventional short form:  Ecuador

  local long form:  Republica del Ecuador

  local short form:  Ecuador

Egypt:
  conventional long form:  Arab Republic of Egypt

  conventional short form:  Egypt

  local long form:  Jumhuriyat Misr al-Arabiyah

  local short form:  Misr

  former:  United Arab Republic (with Syria)

El Salvador:
  conventional long form:  Republic of El Salvador

  conventional short form:  El Salvador

  local long form:  Republica de El Salvador

  local short form:  El Salvador

Equatorial Guinea:
  conventional long form:  Republic of Equatorial
  Guinea

  conventional short form:  Equatorial Guinea

  local long form:  Republica de Guinea Ecuatorial

  local short form:  Guinea Ecuatorial

  former:  Spanish Guinea

Eritrea:
  conventional long form:  State of Eritrea

  conventional short form:  Eritrea

  local long form:  Hagere Ertra

  local short form:  Ertra

  former:  Eritrea Autonomous Region in Ethiopia

Estonia:
  conventional long form:  Republic of Estonia

  conventional short form:  Estonia

  local long form:  Eesti Vabariik

  local short form:  Eesti

  former:  Estonian Soviet Socialist Republic

Ethiopia:
  conventional long form:  Federal Democratic Republic of
  Ethiopia

  conventional short form:  Ethiopia

  local long form:  Ityop'iya Federalawi Demokrasiyawi Ripeblik

  local short form:  Ityop'iya

  former:  Abyssinia, Italian East Africa

  abbreviation:  FDRE

Europa Island:
  conventional long form:  none

  conventional short form:  Europa Island

  local long form:  none

  local short form:  Ile Europa

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas):
  conventional long form:  none

  conventional short form:  Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)

Faroe Islands:
  conventional long form:  none

  conventional short form:  Faroe Islands

  local long form:  none

  local short form:  Foroyar

Fiji:
  conventional long form:  Republic of the Fiji Islands

  conventional short form:  Fiji

Finland:
  conventional long form:  Republic of Finland

  conventional short form:  Finland

  local long form:  Suomen Tasavalta

  local short form:  Suomi

France:
  conventional long form:  French Republic

  conventional short form:  France

  local long form:  Republique Francaise

  local short form:  France

French Guiana:
  conventional long form:  Department of Guiana

  conventional short form:  French Guiana

  local long form:  none

  local short form:  Guyane

French Polynesia:
  conventional long form:  Territory of French
  Polynesia

  conventional short form:  French Polynesia

  local long form:  Territoire de la Polynesie Francaise

  local short form:  Polynesie Francaise

  former:  French Colony of Oceania

French Southern and Antarctic Lands:
  conventional long form:
  Territory of the French Southern and Antarctic Lands

  conventional short form:  French Southern and Antarctic Lands

  local long form:  Territoire des Terres Australes et Antarctiques
  Francaises

  local short form:  Terres Australes et Antarctiques Francaises

Gabon:
  conventional long form:  Gabonese Republic

  conventional short form:  Gabon

  local long form:  Republique Gabonaise

  local short form:  Gabon

Gambia, The:
  conventional long form:  Republic of The Gambia

  conventional short form:  The Gambia

Gaza Strip:
  conventional long form:  none

  conventional short form:  Gaza Strip

  local long form:  none

  local short form:  Qita Ghazzah

Georgia:
  conventional long form:  none

  conventional short form:  Georgia

  local long form:  none

  local short form:  Sak'art'velo

  former:  Georgian Soviet Socialist Republic

Germany:
  conventional long form:  Federal Republic of Germany

  conventional short form:  Germany

  local long form:  Bundesrepublik Deutschland

  local short form:  Deutschland

  former:  German Empire, German Republic, German Reich

Ghana:
  conventional long form:  Republic of Ghana

  conventional short form:  Ghana

  former:  Gold Coast

Gibraltar:
  conventional long form:  none

  conventional short form:  Gibraltar

Glorioso Islands:
  conventional long form:  none

  conventional short form:  Glorioso Islands

  local long form:  none

  local short form:  Iles Glorieuses

Greece:
  conventional long form:  Hellenic Republic

  conventional short form:  Greece

  local long form:  Elliniki Dhimokratia

  local short form:  Ellas or Ellada

  former:  Kingdom of Greece

Greenland:
  conventional long form:  none

  conventional short form:  Greenland

  local long form:  none

  local short form:  Kalaallit Nunaat

Grenada:
  conventional long form:  none

  conventional short form:  Grenada

Guadeloupe:
  conventional long form:  Department of Guadeloupe

  conventional short form:  Guadeloupe

  local long form:  Departement de la Guadeloupe

  local short form:  Guadeloupe

Guam:
  conventional long form:  Territory of Guam

  conventional short form:  Guam

Guatemala:
  conventional long form:  Republic of Guatemala

  conventional short form:  Guatemala

  local long form:  Republica de Guatemala

  local short form:  Guatemala

Guernsey:
  conventional long form:  Bailiwick of Guernsey

  conventional short form:  Guernsey

Guinea:
  conventional long form:  Republic of Guinea

  conventional short form:  Guinea

  local long form:  Republique de Guinee

  local short form:  Guinee

  former:  French Guinea

Guinea-Bissau:
  conventional long form:  Republic of Guinea-Bissau

  conventional short form:  Guinea-Bissau

  local long form:  Republica da Guine-Bissau

  local short form:  Guine-Bissau

  former:  Portuguese Guinea

Guyana:
  conventional long form:  Co-operative Republic of Guyana

  conventional short form:  Guyana

  former:  British Guiana

Haiti:
  conventional long form:  Republic of Haiti

  conventional short form:  Haiti

  local long form:  Republique d'Haiti

  local short form:  Haiti

Heard Island and McDonald Islands:
  conventional long form:
  Territory of Heard Island and McDonald Islands

  conventional short form:  Heard Island and McDonald Islands

Holy See (Vatican City):
  conventional long form:  The Holy See
  (State of the Vatican City)

  conventional short form:  Holy See (Vatican City)

  local long form:  Santa Sede (Stato della Citta del Vaticano)

  local short form:  Santa Sede (Citta del Vaticano)

Honduras:
  conventional long form:  Republic of Honduras

  conventional short form:  Honduras

  local long form:  Republica de Honduras

  local short form:  Honduras

Hong Kong:
  conventional long form:  Hong Kong Special Administrative
  Region

  conventional short form:  Hong Kong

  local long form:  Xianggang Tebie Xingzhengqu

  local short form:  Xianggang

  abbreviation:  HK

Howland Island:
  conventional long form:  none

  conventional short form:  Howland Island

Hungary:
  conventional long form:  Republic of Hungary

  conventional short form:  Hungary

  local long form:  Magyar Koztarsasag

  local short form:  Magyarorszag

Iceland:
  conventional long form:  Republic of Iceland

  conventional short form:  Iceland

  local long form:  Lyoveldio Island

  local short form:  Island

India:
  conventional long form:  Republic of India

  conventional short form:  India

Indonesia:
  conventional long form:  Republic of Indonesia

  conventional short form:  Indonesia

  local long form:  Republik Indonesia

  local short form:  Indonesia

  former:  Netherlands East Indies; Dutch East Indies

Iran:
  conventional long form:  Islamic Republic of Iran

  conventional short form:  Iran

  local long form:  Jomhuri-ye Eslami-ye Iran

  local short form:  Iran

  former:  Persia

Iraq:
  conventional long form:  Republic of Iraq

  conventional short form:  Iraq

  local long form:  Al Jumhuriyah al Iraqiyah

  local short form:  Al Iraq

Ireland:
  conventional long form:  none

  conventional short form:  Ireland

Israel:
  conventional long form:  State of Israel

  conventional short form:  Israel

  local long form:  Medinat Yisra'el

  local short form:  Yisra'el

Italy:
  conventional long form:  Italian Republic

  conventional short form:  Italy

  local long form:  Repubblica Italiana

  local short form:  Italia

  former:  Kingdom of Italy

Jamaica:
  conventional long form:  none

  conventional short form:  Jamaica

Jan Mayen:
  conventional long form:  none

  conventional short form:  Jan Mayen

Japan:
  conventional long form:  none

  conventional short form:  Japan

Jarvis Island:
  conventional long form:  none

  conventional short form:  Jarvis Island

Jersey:
  conventional long form:  Bailiwick of Jersey

  conventional short form:  Jersey

Johnston Atoll:
  conventional long form:  none

  conventional short form:  Johnston Atoll

Jordan:
  conventional long form:  Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan

  conventional short form:  Jordan

  local long form:  Al Mamlakah al Urduniyah al Hashimiyah

  local short form:  Al Urdun

  former:  Transjordan

Juan de Nova Island:
  conventional long form:  none

  conventional short form:  Juan de Nova Island

  local long form:  none

  local short form:  Ile Juan de Nova

Kazakhstan:
  conventional long form:  Republic of Kazakhstan

  conventional short form:  Kazakhstan

  local long form:  Qazaqstan Respublikasy

  local short form:  none

  former:  Kazakh Soviet Socialist Republic

Kenya:
  conventional long form:  Republic of Kenya

  conventional short form:  Kenya

  former:  British East Africa

Kingman Reef:
  conventional long form:  none

  conventional short form:  Kingman Reef

Kiribati:
  conventional long form:  Republic of Kiribati

  conventional short form:  Kiribati

  note:  pronounced kir-ih-bahss

  former:  Gilbert Islands

Korea, North:
  conventional long form:  Democratic People's Republic
  of Korea

  conventional short form:  North Korea

  local long form:  Choson-minjujuui-inmin-konghwaguk

  local short form:  none

  note:  the North Koreans generally use the term "Choson" to refer to
  their country

  abbreviation:  DPRK

Korea, South:
  conventional long form:  Republic of Korea

  conventional short form:  South Korea

  local long form:  Taehan-min'guk

  local short form:  none

  note:  the South Koreans generally use the term "Han-guk" to refer
  to their country

  abbreviation:  ROK

Kuwait:
  conventional long form:  State of Kuwait

  conventional short form:  Kuwait

  local long form:  Dawlat al Kuwayt

  local short form:  Al Kuwayt

Kyrgyzstan:
  conventional long form:  Kyrgyz Republic

  conventional short form:  Kyrgyzstan

  local long form:  Kyrgyz Respublikasy

  local short form:  none

  former:  Kirghiz Soviet Socialist Republic

Laos:
  conventional long form:  Lao People's Democratic Republic

  conventional short form:  Laos

  local long form:  Sathalanalat Paxathipatai Paxaxon Lao

  local short form:  none

Latvia:
  conventional long form:  Republic of Latvia

  conventional short form:  Latvia

  local long form:  Latvijas Republika

  local short form:  Latvija

  former:  Latvian Soviet Socialist Republic

Lebanon:
  conventional long form:  Lebanese Republic

  conventional short form:  Lebanon

  local long form:  Al Jumhuriyah al Lubnaniyah

  local short form:  Lubnan

Lesotho:
  conventional long form:  Kingdom of Lesotho

  conventional short form:  Lesotho

  former:  Basutoland

Liberia:
  conventional long form:  Republic of Liberia

  conventional short form:  Liberia

Libya:
  conventional long form:  Great Socialist People's Libyan Arab
  Jamahiriya

  conventional short form:  Libya

  local long form:  Al Jumahiriyah al Arabiyah al Libiyah ash Shabiyah
  al Ishtirakiyah al Uzma

  local short form:  none

Liechtenstein:
  conventional long form:  Principality of Liechtenstein

  conventional short form:  Liechtenstein

  local long form:  Fuerstentum Liechtenstein

  local short form:  Liechtenstein

Lithuania:
  conventional long form:  Republic of Lithuania

  conventional short form:  Lithuania

  local long form:  Lietuvos Respublika

  local short form:  Lietuva

  former:  Lithuanian Soviet Socialist Republic

Luxembourg:
  conventional long form:  Grand Duchy of Luxembourg

  conventional short form:  Luxembourg

  local long form:  Grand Duche de Luxembourg

  local short form:  Luxembourg

Macau:
  conventional long form:  Macau Special Administrative Region

  conventional short form:  Macau

  local long form:  Aomen Tebie Xingzhengqu (Chinese); Regiao
  Administrativa Especial de Macau (Portuguese)

  local short form:  Aomen (Chinese); Macau (Portuguese)

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  conventional long form:
  The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia

  conventional short form:  none

  local long form:  Republika Makedonija

  local short form:  Makedonija

  abbreviation:  FYROM

Madagascar:
  conventional long form:  Republic of Madagascar

  conventional short form:  Madagascar

  local long form:  Republique de Madagascar

  local short form:  Madagascar

  former:  Malagasy Republic

Malawi:
  conventional long form:  Republic of Malawi

  conventional short form:  Malawi

  former:  British Central African Protectorate, Nyasaland
  Protectorate, Nyasaland

Malaysia:
  conventional long form:  none

  conventional short form:  Malaysia

  former:  Federation of Malaysia

Maldives:
  conventional long form:  Republic of Maldives

  conventional short form:  Maldives

  local long form:  Dhivehi Raajjeyge Jumhooriyyaa

  local short form:  Dhivehi Raajje

Mali:
  conventional long form:  Republic of Mali

  conventional short form:  Mali

  local long form:  Republique de Mali

  local short form:  Mali

  former:  French Sudan and Sudanese Republic

Malta:
  conventional long form:  Republic of Malta

  conventional short form:  Malta

  local long form:  Repubblika ta' Malta

  local short form:  Malta

Man, Isle of:
  conventional long form:  none

  conventional short form:  Isle of Man

Marshall Islands:
  conventional long form:  Republic of the Marshall
  Islands

  conventional short form:  Marshall Islands

  former:  Marshall Islands District (Trust Territory of the Pacific
  Islands)

Martinique:
  conventional long form:  Department of Martinique

  conventional short form:  Martinique

  local long form:  Departement de la Martinique

  local short form:  Martinique

Mauritania:
  conventional long form:  Islamic Republic of Mauritania

  conventional short form:  Mauritania

  local long form:  Al Jumhuriyah al Islamiyah al Muritaniyah

  local short form:  Muritaniyah

Mauritius:
  conventional long form:  Republic of Mauritius

  conventional short form:  Mauritius

Mayotte:
  conventional long form:  Territorial Collectivity of Mayotte

  conventional short form:  Mayotte

Mexico:
  conventional long form:  United Mexican States

  conventional short form:  Mexico

  local long form:  Estados Unidos Mexicanos

  local short form:  Mexico

Micronesia, Federated States of:
  conventional long form:  Federated
  States of Micronesia

  conventional short form:  none

  former:  Ponape, Truk, and Yap Districts (Trust Territory of the
  Pacific Islands)

  abbreviation:  FSM

Midway Islands:
  conventional long form:  none

  conventional short form:  Midway Islands

Moldova:
  conventional long form:  Republic of Moldova

  conventional short form:  Moldova

  local long form:  Republica Moldova

  local short form:  none

  former:  Soviet Socialist Republic of Moldova; Moldavia

Monaco:
  conventional long form:  Principality of Monaco

  conventional short form:  Monaco

  local long form:  Principaute de Monaco

  local short form:  Monaco

Mongolia:
  conventional long form:  none

  conventional short form:  Mongolia

  local long form:  none

  local short form:  Mongol Uls

  former:  Outer Mongolia

Montserrat:
  conventional long form:  none

  conventional short form:  Montserrat

Morocco:
  conventional long form:  Kingdom of Morocco

  conventional short form:  Morocco

  local long form:  Al Mamlakah al Maghribiyah

  local short form:  Al Maghrib

Mozambique:
  conventional long form:  Republic of Mozambique

  conventional short form:  Mozambique

  local long form:  Republica de Mocambique

  local short form:  Mocambique

  former:  Portuguese East Africa

Namibia:
  conventional long form:  Republic of Namibia

  conventional short form:  Namibia

  former:  German Southwest Africa, South-West Africa

Nauru:
  conventional long form:  Republic of Nauru

  conventional short form:  Nauru

  former:  Pleasant Island

Navassa Island:
  conventional long form:  none

  conventional short form:  Navassa Island

Nepal:
  conventional long form:  Kingdom of Nepal

  conventional short form:  Nepal

Netherlands:
  conventional long form:  Kingdom of the Netherlands

  conventional short form:  Netherlands

  local long form:  Koninkrijk der Nederlanden

  local short form:  Nederland

Netherlands Antilles:
  conventional long form:  none

  conventional short form:  Netherlands Antilles

  local long form:  none

  local short form:  Nederlandse Antillen

  former:  Curacao and Dependencies

New Caledonia:
  conventional long form:  Territory of New Caledonia
  and Dependencies

  conventional short form:  New Caledonia

  local long form:  Territoire des Nouvelle-Caledonie et Dependances

  local short form:  Nouvelle-Caledonie

New Zealand:
  conventional long form:  none

  conventional short form:  New Zealand

  abbreviation:  NZ

Nicaragua:
  conventional long form:  Republic of Nicaragua

  conventional short form:  Nicaragua

  local long form:  Republica de Nicaragua

  local short form:  Nicaragua

Niger:
  conventional long form:  Republic of Niger

  conventional short form:  Niger

  local long form:  Republique du Niger

  local short form:  Niger

Nigeria:
  conventional long form:  Federal Republic of Nigeria

  conventional short form:  Nigeria

Niue:
  conventional long form:  none

  conventional short form:  Niue

  former:  Savage Island

Norfolk Island:
  conventional long form:  Territory of Norfolk Island

  conventional short form:  Norfolk Island

Northern Mariana Islands:
  conventional long form:  Commonwealth of
  the Northern Mariana Islands

  conventional short form:  Northern Mariana Islands

  former:  Mariana Islands District (Trust Territory of the Pacific
  Islands)

Norway:
  conventional long form:  Kingdom of Norway

  conventional short form:  Norway

  local long form:  Kongeriket Norge

  local short form:  Norge

Oman:
  conventional long form:  Sultanate of Oman

  conventional short form:  Oman

  local long form:  Saltanat Uman

  local short form:  Uman

  former:  Muscat and Oman

Pakistan:
  conventional long form:  Islamic Republic of Pakistan

  conventional short form:  Pakistan

  former:  West Pakistan

Palau:
  conventional long form:  Republic of Palau

  conventional short form:  Palau

  local long form:  Beluu er a Belau

  local short form:  Belau

  former:  Palau District (Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands)

Palmyra Atoll:
  conventional long form:  none

  conventional short form:  Palmyra Atoll

Panama:
  conventional long form:  Republic of Panama

  conventional short form:  Panama

  local long form:  Republica de Panama

  local short form:  Panama

Papua New Guinea:
  conventional long form:  Independent State of
  Papua New Guinea

  conventional short form:  Papua New Guinea

  former:  Territory of Papua and New Guinea

  abbreviation:  PNG

Paracel Islands:
  conventional long form:  none

  conventional short form:  Paracel Islands

Paraguay:
  conventional long form:  Republic of Paraguay

  conventional short form:  Paraguay

  local long form:  Republica del Paraguay

  local short form:  Paraguay

Peru:
  conventional long form:  Republic of Peru

  conventional short form:  Peru

  local long form:  Republica del Peru

  local short form:  Peru

Philippines:
  conventional long form:  Republic of the Philippines

  conventional short form:  Philippines

  local long form:  Republika ng Pilipinas

  local short form:  Pilipinas

Pitcairn Islands:
  conventional long form:  Pitcairn, Henderson,
  Ducie, and Oeno Islands

  conventional short form:  Pitcairn Islands

Poland:
  conventional long form:  Republic of Poland

  conventional short form:  Poland

  local long form:  Rzeczpospolita Polska

  local short form:  Polska

Portugal:
  conventional long form:  Portuguese Republic

  conventional short form:  Portugal

  local long form:  Republica Portuguesa

  local short form:  Portugal

Puerto Rico:
  conventional long form:  Commonwealth of Puerto Rico

  conventional short form:  Puerto Rico

Qatar:
  conventional long form:  State of Qatar

  conventional short form:  Qatar

  local long form:  Dawlat Qatar

  local short form:  Qatar

  note:  closest approximation of the native pronunciation falls
  between cutter and gutter, but not like guitar

Reunion:
  conventional long form:  Department of Reunion

  conventional short form:  Reunion

  local long form:  none

  local short form:  Ile de la Reunion

  former:  Bourbon Island

Romania:
  conventional long form:  none

  conventional short form:  Romania

  local long form:  none

  local short form:  Romania

Russia:
  conventional long form:  Russian Federation

  conventional short form:  Russia

  local long form:  Rossiyskaya Federatsiya

  local short form:  Rossiya

  former:  Russian Empire, Russian Soviet Federative Socialist Republic

Rwanda:
  conventional long form:  Rwandese Republic

  conventional short form:  Rwanda

  local long form:  Republika y'u Rwanda

  local short form:  Rwanda

  former:  Ruanda

Saint Helena:
  conventional long form:  none

  conventional short form:  Saint Helena

Saint Kitts and Nevis:
  conventional long form:  Federation of Saint
  Kitts and Nevis

  conventional short form:  Saint Kitts and Nevis

  former:  Federation of Saint Christopher and Nevis

Saint Lucia:
  conventional long form:  none

  conventional short form:  Saint Lucia

Saint Pierre and Miquelon:
  conventional long form:  Territorial
  Collectivity of Saint Pierre and Miquelon

  conventional short form:  Saint Pierre and Miquelon

  local long form:  Departement de Saint-Pierre et Miquelon

  local short form:  Saint-Pierre et Miquelon

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:
  conventional long form:  none

  conventional short form:  Saint Vincent and the Grenadines

Samoa:
  conventional long form:  Independent State of Samoa

  conventional short form:  Samoa

  former:  Western Samoa

San Marino:
  conventional long form:  Republic of San Marino

  conventional short form:  San Marino

  local long form:  Repubblica di San Marino

  local short form:  San Marino

Sao Tome and Principe:
  conventional long form:  Democratic Republic
  of Sao Tome and Principe

  conventional short form:  Sao Tome and Principe

  local long form:  Republica Democratica de Sao Tome e Principe

  local short form:  Sao Tome e Principe

Saudi Arabia:
  conventional long form:  Kingdom of Saudi Arabia

  conventional short form:  Saudi Arabia

  local long form:  Al Mamlakah al Arabiyah as Suudiyah

  local short form:  Al Arabiyah as Suudiyah

Senegal:
  conventional long form:  Republic of Senegal

  conventional short form:  Senegal

  local long form:  Republique du Senegal

  local short form:  Senegal

Seychelles:
  conventional long form:  Republic of Seychelles

  conventional short form:  Seychelles

Sierra Leone:
  conventional long form:  Republic of Sierra Leone

  conventional short form:  Sierra Leone

Singapore:
  conventional long form:  Republic of Singapore

  conventional short form:  Singapore

Slovakia:
  conventional long form:  Slovak Republic

  conventional short form:  Slovakia

  local long form:  Slovenska Republika

  local short form:  Slovensko

Slovenia:
  conventional long form:  Republic of Slovenia

  conventional short form:  Slovenia

  local long form:  Republika Slovenija

  local short form:  Slovenija

Solomon Islands:
  conventional long form:  none

  conventional short form:  Solomon Islands

  former:  British Solomon Islands

Somalia:
  conventional long form:  none

  conventional short form:  Somalia

  former:  Somali Republic, Somali Democratic Republic

South Africa:
  conventional long form:  Republic of South Africa

  conventional short form:  South Africa

  former:  Union of South Africa

  abbreviation:  RSA

South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands:
  conventional long
  form:  South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands

  conventional short form:  none

Spain:
  conventional long form:  Kingdom of Spain

  conventional short form:  Spain

  local short form:  Espana

Spratly Islands:
  conventional long form:  none

  conventional short form:  Spratly Islands

Sri Lanka:
  conventional long form:  Democratic Socialist Republic of
  Sri Lanka

  conventional short form:  Sri Lanka

  former:  Serendib, Ceylon

Sudan:
  conventional long form:  Republic of the Sudan

  conventional short form:  Sudan

  local long form:  Jumhuriyat as-Sudan

  local short form:  As-Sudan

  former:  Anglo-Egyptian Sudan

Suriname:
  conventional long form:  Republic of Suriname

  conventional short form:  Suriname

  local long form:  Republiek Suriname

  local short form:  Suriname

  former:  Netherlands Guiana, Dutch Guiana

Svalbard:
  conventional long form:  none

  conventional short form:  Svalbard (sometimes referred to as
  Spitzbergen)

Swaziland:
  conventional long form:  Kingdom of Swaziland

  conventional short form:  Swaziland

Sweden:
  conventional long form:  Kingdom of Sweden

  conventional short form:  Sweden

  local long form:  Konungariket Sverige

  local short form:  Sverige

Switzerland:
  conventional long form:  Swiss Confederation

  conventional short form:  Switzerland

  local long form:  Schweizerische Eidgenossenschaft (German),
  Confederation Suisse (French), Confederazione Svizzera (Italian)

  local short form:  Schweiz (German), Suisse (French), Svizzera
  (Italian)

Syria:
  conventional long form:  Syrian Arab Republic

  conventional short form:  Syria

  local long form:  Al Jumhuriyah al Arabiyah as Suriyah

  local short form:  Suriyah

  former:  United Arab Republic (with Egypt)

Tajikistan:
  conventional long form:  Republic of Tajikistan

  conventional short form:  Tajikistan

  local long form:  Jumhurii Tojikiston

  local short form:  none

  former:  Tajik Soviet Socialist Republic

Tanzania:
  conventional long form:  United Republic of Tanzania

  conventional short form:  Tanzania

  former:  United Republic of Tanganyika and Zanzibar

Thailand:
  conventional long form:  Kingdom of Thailand

  conventional short form:  Thailand

  former:  Siam

Togo:
  conventional long form:  Togolese Republic

  conventional short form:  Togo

  local long form:  Republique Togolaise

  local short form:  none

  former:  French Togoland

Tokelau:
  conventional long form:  none

  conventional short form:  Tokelau

Tonga:
  conventional long form:  Kingdom of Tonga

  conventional short form:  Tonga

  former:  Friendly Islands

Trinidad and Tobago:
  conventional long form:  Republic of Trinidad
  and Tobago

  conventional short form:  Trinidad and Tobago

Tromelin Island:
  conventional long form:  none

  conventional short form:  Tromelin Island

  local long form:  none

  local short form:  Ile Tromelin

Tunisia:
  conventional long form:  Republic of Tunisia

  conventional short form:  Tunisia

  local long form:  Al Jumhuriyah at Tunisiyah

  local short form:  Tunis

Turkey:
  conventional long form:  Republic of Turkey

  conventional short form:  Turkey

  local long form:  Turkiye Cumhuriyeti

  local short form:  Turkiye

Turkmenistan:
  conventional long form:  none

  conventional short form:  Turkmenistan

  local long form:  none

  local short form:  Turkmenistan

  former:  Turkmen Soviet Socialist Republic

Turks and Caicos Islands:
  conventional long form:  none

  conventional short form:  Turks and Caicos Islands

Tuvalu:
  conventional long form:  none

  conventional short form:  Tuvalu

  former:  Ellice Islands

Uganda:
  conventional long form:  Republic of Uganda

  conventional short form:  Uganda

Ukraine:
  conventional long form:  none

  conventional short form:  Ukraine

  local long form:  none

  local short form:  Ukrayina

  former:  Ukrainian National Republic, Ukrainian State, Ukrainian
  Soviet Socialist Republic

United Arab Emirates:
  conventional long form:  United Arab Emirates

  conventional short form:  none

  local long form:  Al Imarat al Arabiyah al Muttahidah

  local short form:  none

  former:  Trucial Oman, Trucial States

  abbreviation:  UAE

United Kingdom:
  conventional long form:  United Kingdom of Great
  Britain and Northern Ireland

  conventional short form:  United Kingdom

  abbreviation:  UK

United States:
  conventional long form:  United States of America

  conventional short form:  United States

  abbreviation:  US or USA

Uruguay:
  conventional long form:  Oriental Republic of Uruguay

  conventional short form:  Uruguay

  local long form:  Republica Oriental del Uruguay

  local short form:  Uruguay

  former:  Banda Oriental, Cisplatine Province

Uzbekistan:
  conventional long form:  Republic of Uzbekistan

  conventional short form:  Uzbekistan

  local long form:  Uzbekiston Respublikasi

  local short form:  none

  former:  Uzbek Soviet Socialist Republic

Vanuatu:
  conventional long form:  Republic of Vanuatu

  conventional short form:  Vanuatu

  former:  New Hebrides

Venezuela:
  conventional long form:  Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela

  conventional short form:  Venezuela

  local long form:  Republica Bolivariana de Venezuela

  local short form:  Venezuela

Vietnam:
  conventional long form:  Socialist Republic of Vietnam

  conventional short form:  Vietnam

  local long form:  Cong Hoa Xa Hoi Chu Nghia Viet Nam

  local short form:  Viet Nam

  abbreviation:  SRV

Virgin Islands:
  conventional long form:  United States Virgin Islands

  conventional short form:  Virgin Islands

  former:  Danish West Indies

Wake Island:
  conventional long form:  none

  conventional short form:  Wake Island

Wallis and Futuna:
  conventional long form:  Territory of the Wallis
  and Futuna Islands

  conventional short form:  Wallis and Futuna

  local long form:  Territoire des Iles Wallis et Futuna

  local short form:  Wallis et Futuna

West Bank:
  conventional long form:  none

  conventional short form:  West Bank

Western Sahara:
  conventional long form:  none

  conventional short form:  Western Sahara

  former:  Spanish Sahara

Yemen:
  conventional long form:  Republic of Yemen

  conventional short form:  Yemen

  local long form:  Al Jumhuriyah al Yamaniyah

  local short form:  Al Yaman

Yugoslavia:
  conventional long form:  Federal Republic of Yugoslavia

  conventional short form:  Yugoslavia

  local long form:  Savezna Republika Jugoslavija

  local short form:  Jugoslavija

Zambia:
  conventional long form:  Republic of Zambia

  conventional short form:  Zambia

  former:  Northern Rhodesia

Zimbabwe:
  conventional long form:  Republic of Zimbabwe

  conventional short form:  Zimbabwe

  former:  Southern Rhodesia, Rhodesia

Taiwan:
  conventional long form:  none

  conventional short form:  Taiwan

  local long form:  none

  local short form:  T'ai-wan

  former:  Formosa

======================================================================

@Currency



Afghanistan:
  afghani (AFA)

Albania:
  lek (ALL)

Algeria:
  Algerian dinar (DZD)

American Samoa:
  US dollar (USD)

Andorra:
  French franc (FRF); Spanish peseta (ESP); euro (EUR)

Angola:
  kwanza (AOA)

Anguilla:
  East Caribbean dollar (XCD)

Antigua and Barbuda:
  East Caribbean dollar (XCD)

Argentina:
  Argentine peso (ARS)

Armenia:
  dram (AMD)

Aruba:
  Aruban guilder/florin (AWG)

Australia:
  Australian dollar (AUD)

Austria:
  Austrian schilling (ATS); euro (EUR)

  note:  on 1 January 1999, the EU introduced the euro as a common
  currency that is now being used by financial institutions in Austria
  at a fixed rate of 13.7603 Austrian shillings per euro and will
  replace the local currency for all transactions in 2002

Azerbaijan:
  Azerbaijani manat (AZM)

Bahamas, The:
  Bahamian dollar (BSD)

Bahrain:
  Bahraini dinar (BHD)

Bangladesh:
  taka (BDT)

Barbados:
  Barbadian dollar (BBD)

Belarus:
  Belarusian ruble (BYB/BYR)

Belgium:
  Belgian franc (BEF); euro (EUR)

  note:  on 1 January 1999, the EU introduced the euro as a common
  currency that is now being used by financial institutions in Belgium
  at a fixed rate of 40.3399 Belgian francs per euro and will replace
  the local currency for all transactions in 2002

Belize:
  Belizean dollar (BZD)

Benin:
  Communaute Financiere Africaine franc (XOF); note -
  responsible authority is the Central Bank of the West African States

Bermuda:
  Bermudian dollar (BMD)

Bhutan:
  ngultrum (BTN); Indian rupee (INR)

Bolivia:
  boliviano (BOB)

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  marka (BAM)

Botswana:
  pula (BWP)

Brazil:
  real (BRL)

British Virgin Islands:
  US dollar (USD)

Brunei:
  Bruneian dollar (BND)

Bulgaria:
  lev (BGL)

Burkina Faso:
  Communaute Financiere Africaine franc (XOF); note -
  responsible authority is the Central Bank of the West African States

Burma:
  kyat (MMK)

Burundi:
  Burundi franc (BIF)

Cambodia:
  riel (KHR)

Cameroon:
  Communaute Financiere Africaine franc (XAF); note -
  responsible authority is the Bank of the Central African States

Canada:
  Canadian dollar (CAD)

Cape Verde:
  Cape Verdean escudo (CVE)

Cayman Islands:
  Caymanian dollar (KYD)

Central African Republic:
  Communaute Financiere Africaine franc
  (XAF); note - responsible authority is the Bank of the Central
  African States

Chad:
  Communaute Financiere Africaine franc (XAF); note -
  responsible authority is the Bank of the Central African States

Chile:
  Chilean peso (CLP)

China:
  yuan (CNY)

Christmas Island:
  Australian dollar (AUD)

Cocos (Keeling) Islands:
  Australian dollar (AUD)

Colombia:
  Colombian peso (COP)

Comoros:
  Comoran franc (KMF)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  Congolese franc (CDF)

Congo, Republic of the:
  Communaute Financiere Africaine franc (XAF);
  note - responsible authority is the Bank of the Central African
  States

Cook Islands:
  New Zealand dollar (NZD)

Costa Rica:
  Costa Rican colon (CRC)

Cote d'Ivoire:
  Communaute Financiere Africaine franc (XOF); note -
  responsible authority is the Central Bank of the West African States

Croatia:
  kuna (HRK)

Cuba:
  Cuban peso (CUP)

Cyprus:
  Greek Cypriot area: Cypriot pound (CYP); Turkish Cypriot
  area: Turkish lira (TRL)

Czech Republic:
  Czech koruna (CZK)

Denmark:
  Danish krone (DKK)

Djibouti:
  Djiboutian franc (DJF)

Dominica:
  East Caribbean dollar (XCD)

Dominican Republic:
  Dominican peso (DOP)

Ecuador:
  US dollar (USD)

Egypt:
  Egyptian pound (EGP)

El Salvador:
  Salvadoran colon (SVC); US dollar (USD)

Equatorial Guinea:
  Communaute Financiere Africaine franc (XAF); note
  - responsible authority is the Bank of the Central African States

Eritrea:
  nakfa (ERN)

Estonia:
  Estonian kroon (EEK)

Ethiopia:
  birr (ETB)

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas):
  Falkland pound (FKP)

Faroe Islands:
  Danish krone (DKK)

Fiji:
  Fijian dollar (FJD)

Finland:
  markka (FIM); euro (EUR)

  note:  on 1 January 1999, the EU introduced the euro as a common
  currency that is now being used by financial institutions in Finland
  at a fixed rate of 5.94573 markkaa per euro and will replace the
  local currency for all transactions in 2002

France:
  French franc (FRF); euro (EUR)

  note:  on 1 January 1999, the EU introduced the euro as a common
  currency that is now being used by financial institutions in France
  at a fixed rate of 6.55957 French francs per euro and will replace
  the local currency for all transactions in 2002

French Guiana:
  French franc (FRF); euro (EUR)

French Polynesia:
  Comptoirs Francais du Pacifique franc (XPF)

Gabon:
  Communaute Financiere Africaine franc (XAF); note -
  responsible authority is the Bank of the Central African States

Gambia, The:
  dalasi (GMD)

Gaza Strip:
  new Israeli shekel (ILS)

Georgia:
  lari (GEL)

Germany:
  deutsche mark (DEM); euro (EUR)

  note:  on 1 January 1999, the EU introduced the euro as a common
  currency that is now being used by financial institutions in Germany
  at a fixed rate of 1.95583 deutsche marks per euro and will replace
  the local currency for all transactions in 2002

Ghana:
  cedi (GHC)

Gibraltar:
  Gibraltar pound (GIP)

Greece:
  drachma (GRD); euro (EUR)

  note:  on 1 January 1999, the EU introduced the euro as a common
  currency that is now being used by financial institutions in Greece
  (which entered the European Monetary Union on 1 January 2001) at a
  fixed rate of 340.750 drachmae per euro and will replace the local
  currency for all transactions in 2002

Greenland:
  Danish krone (DKK)

Grenada:
  East Caribbean dollar (XCD)

Guadeloupe:
  French franc (FRF); euro (EUR)

Guam:
  US dollar (USD)

Guatemala:
  quetzal (GTQ), US dollar (USD), others allowed

Guernsey:
  British pound (GBP); note - there is also a Guernsey pound

Guinea:
  Guinean franc (GNF)

Guinea-Bissau:
  Communaute Financiere Africaine franc (XOF); note -
  responsible authority is the Central Bank of the West African
  States; previously the Guinea-Bissau peso (GWP) was used

Guyana:
  Guyanese dollar (GYD)

Haiti:
  gourde (HTG)

Holy See (Vatican City):
  Italian lira (ITL); euro (EUR)

Honduras:
  lempira (HNL)

Hong Kong:
  Hong Kong dollar (HKD)

Hungary:
  forint (HUF)

Iceland:
  Icelandic krona (ISK)

India:
  Indian rupee (INR)

Indonesia:
  Indonesian rupiah (IDR)

Iran:
  Iranian rial (IRR)

Iraq:
  Iraqi dinar (IQD)

Ireland:
  Irish pound (IEP); euro (EUR)

  note:  on 1 January 1999, the EU introduced the euro as a common
  currency that is now being used by financial institutions in Ireland
  at a fixed rate of 0.787564 Irish pounds per euro and will replace
  the local currency for all transactions in 2002

Israel:
  new Israeli shekel (ILS)

Italy:
  Italian lira (ITL); euro (EUR)

  note:  on 1 January 1999, the EU introduced the euro as a common
  currency that is now being used by financial institutions in Italy
  at a fixed rate of 1,936.27 Italian lire per euro and will replace
  the local currency for all transactions in 2002

Jamaica:
  Jamaican dollar (JMD)

Japan:
  yen (JPY)

Jersey:
  British pound (GBP); note - there is also a Jersey pound

Jordan:
  Jordanian dinar (JOD)

Kazakhstan:
  tenge (KZT)

Kenya:
  Kenyan shilling (KES)

Kiribati:
  Australian dollar (AUD)

Korea, North:
  North Korean won (KPW)

Korea, South:
  South Korean won (KRW)

Kuwait:
  Kuwaiti dinar (KWD)

Kyrgyzstan:
  Kyrgyzstani som (KGS)

Laos:
  kip (LAK)

Latvia:
  Latvian lat (LVL)

Lebanon:
  Lebanese pound (LBP)

Lesotho:
  loti (LSL); South African rand (ZAR)

Liberia:
  Liberian dollar (LRD)

Libya:
  Libyan dinar (LYD)

Liechtenstein:
  Swiss franc (CHF)

Lithuania:
  litas (LTL)

Luxembourg:
  Luxembourg franc (LUF); euro (EUR)

  note:  on 1 January 1999, the EU introduced the euro as a common
  currency that is now being used by financial institutions in
  Luxembourg at a fixed rate of 40.3399 Luxembourg francs per euro and
  will replace the local currency for all transactions in 2002

Macau:
  pataca (MOP)

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  Macedonian denar (MKD)

Madagascar:
  Malagasy franc (MGF)

Malawi:
  Malawian kwacha (MWK)

Malaysia:
  ringgit (MYR)

Maldives:
  rufiyaa (MVR)

Mali:
  Communaute Financiere Africaine franc (XOF); note -
  responsible authority is the Central Bank of the West African States

Malta:
  Maltese lira (MTL)

Man, Isle of:
  British pound (GBP); note - there is also a Manx pound

Marshall Islands:
  US dollar (USD)

Martinique:
  French franc (FRF); euro (EUR)

Mauritania:
  ouguiya (MRO)

Mauritius:
  Mauritian rupee (MUR)

Mayotte:
  French franc (FRF); euro (EUR)

Mexico:
  Mexican peso (MXN)

Micronesia, Federated States of:
  US dollar (USD)

Moldova:
  Moldovan leu (MDL)

Monaco:
  French franc (FRF); euro (EUR)

Mongolia:
  togrog/tugrik (MNT)

Montserrat:
  East Caribbean dollar (XCD)

Morocco:
  Moroccan dirham (MAD)

Mozambique:
  metical (MZM)

Namibia:
  Namibian dollar (NAD); South African rand (ZAR)

Nauru:
  Australian dollar (AUD)

Nepal:
  Nepalese rupee (NPR)

Netherlands:
  Netherlands guilder (NLG); euro (EUR)

  note:  on 1 January 1999, the EU introduced the euro as a common
  currency that is now being used by financial institutions in the
  Netherlands at a fixed rate of 2.20371 Netherlands guilders per euro
  and will replace the local currency for all transactions in 2002

Netherlands Antilles:
  Netherlands Antillean guilder (ANG)

New Caledonia:
  Comptoirs Francais du Pacifique franc (XPF)

New Zealand:
  New Zealand dollar (NZD)

Nicaragua:
  gold cordoba (NIO)

Niger:
  Communaute Financiere Africaine franc (XOF); note -
  responsible authority is the Central Bank of the West African States

Nigeria:
  naira (NGN)

Niue:
  New Zealand dollar (NZD)

Norfolk Island:
  Australian dollar (AUD)

Northern Mariana Islands:
  US dollar (USD)

Norway:
  Norwegian krone (NOK)

Oman:
  Omani rial (OMR)

Pakistan:
  Pakistani rupee (PKR)

Palau:
  US dollar (USD)

Panama:
  balboa (PAB); US dollar (USD)

Papua New Guinea:
  kina (PGK)

Paraguay:
  guarani (PYG)

Peru:
  nuevo sol (PEN)

Philippines:
  Philippine peso (PHP)

Pitcairn Islands:
  New Zealand dollar (NZD)

Poland:
  zloty (PLN)

Portugal:
  Portuguese escudo (PTE); euro (EUR)

  note:  on 1 January 1999, the EU introduced the euro as a common
  currency that is now being used by financial institutions in
  Portugal at a fixed rate of 200.482 Portuguese escudos per euro and
  will replace the local currency for all transactions in 2002

Puerto Rico:
  US dollar (USD)

Qatar:
  Qatari rial (QAR)

Reunion:
  French franc (FRF); euro (EUR)

Romania:
  leu (ROL)

Russia:
  Russian ruble (RUR)

Rwanda:
  Rwandan franc (RWF)

Saint Helena:
  Saint Helenian pound (SHP)

Saint Kitts and Nevis:
  East Caribbean dollar (XCD)

Saint Lucia:
  East Caribbean dollar (XCD)

Saint Pierre and Miquelon:
  French franc (FRF); euro (EUR)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:
  East Caribbean dollar (XCD)

Samoa:
  tala (WST)

San Marino:
  Italian lira (ITL); euro (EUR)

Sao Tome and Principe:
  dobra (STD)

Saudi Arabia:
  Saudi riyal (SAR)

Senegal:
  Communaute Financiere Africaine franc (XOF); note -
  responsible authority is the Central Bank of the West African States

Seychelles:
  Seychelles rupee (SCR)

Sierra Leone:
  leone (SLL)

Singapore:
  Singapore dollar (SGD)

Slovakia:
  Slovak koruna (SKK)

Slovenia:
  tolar (SIT)

Solomon Islands:
  Solomon Islands dollar (SBD)

Somalia:
  Somali shilling (SOS)

South Africa:
  rand (ZAR)

Spain:
  Spanish peseta (ESP); euro (EUR)

  note:  on 1 January 1999, the EU introduced the euro as a common
  currency that is now being used by financial institutions in Spain
  at a fixed rate of 166.386 Spanish pesetas per euro and will replace
  the local currency for all transactions in 2002

Sri Lanka:
  Sri Lankan rupee (LKR)

Sudan:
  Sudanese dinar (SDD)

Suriname:
  Surinamese guilder (SRG)

Svalbard:
  Norwegian krone (NOK)

Swaziland:
  lilangeni (SZL)

Sweden:
  Swedish krona (SEK)

Switzerland:
  Swiss franc (CHF)

Syria:
  Syrian pound (SYP)

Tajikistan:
  somoni

Tanzania:
  Tanzanian shilling (TZS)

Thailand:
  baht (THB)

Togo:
  Communaute Financiere Africaine franc (XOF); note -
  responsible authority is the Central Bank of the West African States

Tokelau:
  New Zealand dollar (NZD)

Tonga:
  pa'anga (TOP)

Trinidad and Tobago:
  Trinidad and Tobago dollar (TTD)

Tunisia:
  Tunisian dinar (TND)

Turkey:
  Turkish lira (TRL)

Turkmenistan:
  Turkmen manat (TMM)

Turks and Caicos Islands:
  US dollar (USD)

Tuvalu:
  Australian dollar (AUD); note - there is also a Tuvaluan
  dollar

Uganda:
  Ugandan shilling (UGX)

Ukraine:
  hryvnia (UAH)

United Arab Emirates:
  Emirati dirham (AED)

United Kingdom:
  British pound (GBP)

United States:
  US dollar (USD)

Uruguay:
  Uruguayan peso (UYU)

Uzbekistan:
  Uzbekistani sum (UZS)

Vanuatu:
  vatu (VUV)

Venezuela:
  bolivar (VEB)

Vietnam:
  dong (VND)

Virgin Islands:
  US dollar (USD)

Wallis and Futuna:
  Comptoirs Francais du Pacifique franc (XPF)

West Bank:
  new Israeli shekel (ILS); Jordanian dinar (JOD)

Western Sahara:
  Moroccan dirham (MAD)

Yemen:
  Yemeni rial (YER)

Yugoslavia:
  new Yugoslav dinar (YUM); note - in Montenegro the
  German deutsche mark is legal tender (1999)

Zambia:
  Zambian kwacha (ZMK)

Zimbabwe:
  Zimbabwean dollar (ZWD)

Taiwan:
  new Taiwan dollar (TWD)

======================================================================

@Currency code



Afghanistan:
  AFA

Albania:
  ALL

Algeria:
  DZD

American Samoa:
  USD

Andorra:
  FRF; ESP; EUR

Angola:
  AOA

Anguilla:
  XCD

Antigua and Barbuda:
  XCD

Argentina:
  ARS

Armenia:
  AMD

Aruba:
  AWG

Australia:
  AUD

Austria:
  ATS; EUR

Azerbaijan:
  AZM

Bahamas, The:
  BSD

Bahrain:
  BHD

Bangladesh:
  BDT

Barbados:
  BBD

Belarus:
  BYB/BYR

Belgium:
  BEF; EUR

Belize:
  BZD

Benin:
  XOF

Bermuda:
  BMD

Bhutan:
  BTN; INR

Bolivia:
  BOB

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  BAM

Botswana:
  BWP

Brazil:
  BRL

British Virgin Islands:
  USD

Brunei:
  BND

Bulgaria:
  BGL

Burkina Faso:
  XOF

Burma:
  MMK

Burundi:
  BIF

Cambodia:
  KHR

Cameroon:
  XAF

Canada:
  CAD

Cape Verde:
  CVE

Cayman Islands:
  KYD

Central African Republic:
  XAF

Chad:
  XAF

Chile:
  CLP

China:
  CNY

Christmas Island:
  AUD

Cocos (Keeling) Islands:
  AUD

Colombia:
  COP

Comoros:
  KMF

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  CDF

Congo, Republic of the:
  XAF

Cook Islands:
  NZD

Costa Rica:
  CRC

Cote d'Ivoire:
  XOF

Croatia:
  HRK

Cuba:
  CUP

Cyprus:
  CYP; TRL

Czech Republic:
  CZK

Denmark:
  DKK

Djibouti:
  DJF

Dominica:
  XCD

Dominican Republic:
  DOP

Ecuador:
  USD

Egypt:
  EGP

El Salvador:
  SVC; USD

Equatorial Guinea:
  XAF

Eritrea:
  ERN

Estonia:
  EEK

Ethiopia:
  ETB

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas):
  FKP

Faroe Islands:
  DKK

Fiji:
  FJD

Finland:
  FIM; EUR

France:
  FRF; EUR

French Guiana:
  FRF; EUR

French Polynesia:
  XPF

Gabon:
  XAF

Gambia, The:
  GMD

Gaza Strip:
  ILS

Georgia:
  GEL

Germany:
  DEM; EUR

Ghana:
  GHC

Gibraltar:
  GIP

Greece:
  GRD; EUR

Greenland:
  DKK

Grenada:
  XCD

Guadeloupe:
  FRF; EUR

Guam:
  USD

Guatemala:
  GTQ; USD

Guernsey:
  GBP

Guinea:
  GNF

Guinea-Bissau:
  XOF; GWP

Guyana:
  GYD

Haiti:
  HTG

Holy See (Vatican City):
  ITL; EUR

Honduras:
  HNL

Hong Kong:
  HKD

Hungary:
  HUF

Iceland:
  ISK

India:
  INR

Indonesia:
  IDR

Iran:
  IRR

Iraq:
  IQD

Ireland:
  IEP; EUR

Israel:
  ILS

Italy:
  ITL; EUR

Jamaica:
  JMD

Japan:
  JPY

Jersey:
  GBP

Jordan:
  JOD

Kazakhstan:
  KZT

Kenya:
  KES

Kiribati:
  AUD

Korea, North:
  KPW

Korea, South:
  KRW

Kuwait:
  KWD

Kyrgyzstan:
  KGS

Laos:
  LAK

Latvia:
  LVL

Lebanon:
  LBP

Lesotho:
  LSL; ZAR

Liberia:
  LRD

Libya:
  LYD

Liechtenstein:
  CHF

Lithuania:
  LTL

Luxembourg:
  LUF; EUR

Macau:
  MOP

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  MKD

Madagascar:
  MGF

Malawi:
  MWK

Malaysia:
  MYR

Maldives:
  MVR

Mali:
  XOF

Malta:
  MTL

Man, Isle of:
  GBP

Marshall Islands:
  USD

Martinique:
  FRF; EUR

Mauritania:
  MRO

Mauritius:
  MUR

Mayotte:
  FRF; EUR

Mexico:
  MXN

Micronesia, Federated States of:
  USD

Moldova:
  MDL

Monaco:
  FRF; EUR

Mongolia:
  MNT

Montserrat:
  XCD

Morocco:
  MAD

Mozambique:
  MZM

Namibia:
  NAD; ZAR

Nauru:
  AUD

Nepal:
  NPR

Netherlands:
  NLG; EUR

Netherlands Antilles:
  ANG

New Caledonia:
  XPF

New Zealand:
  NZD

Nicaragua:
  NIO

Niger:
  XOF

Nigeria:
  NGN

Niue:
  NZD

Norfolk Island:
  AUD

Northern Mariana Islands:
  USD

Norway:
  NOK

Oman:
  OMR

Pakistan:
  PKR

Palau:
  USD

Panama:
  PAB; USD

Papua New Guinea:
  PGK

Paraguay:
  PYG

Peru:
  PEN

Philippines:
  PHP

Pitcairn Islands:
  NZD

Poland:
  PLN

Portugal:
  PTE; EUR

Puerto Rico:
  USD

Qatar:
  QAR

Reunion:
  FRF; EUR

Romania:
  ROL

Russia:
  RUR

Rwanda:
  RWF

Saint Helena:
  SHP

Saint Kitts and Nevis:
  XCD

Saint Lucia:
  XCD

Saint Pierre and Miquelon:
  FRF; EUR

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:
  XCD

Samoa:
  WST

San Marino:
  ITL; EUR

Sao Tome and Principe:
  STD

Saudi Arabia:
  SAR

Senegal:
  XOF

Seychelles:
  SCR

Sierra Leone:
  SLL

Singapore:
  SGD

Slovakia:
  SKK

Slovenia:
  SIT

Solomon Islands:
  SBD

Somalia:
  SOS

South Africa:
  ZAR

Spain:
  ESP; EUR

Sri Lanka:
  LKR

Sudan:
  SDD

Suriname:
  SRG

Svalbard:
  NOK

Swaziland:
  SZL

Sweden:
  SEK

Switzerland:
  CHF

Syria:
  SYP

Tajikistan:
  SM

Tanzania:
  TZS

Thailand:
  THB

Togo:
  XOF

Tokelau:
  NZD

Tonga:
  TOP

Trinidad and Tobago:
  TTD

Tunisia:
  TND

Turkey:
  TRL

Turkmenistan:
  TMM

Turks and Caicos Islands:
  USD

Tuvalu:
  AUD

Uganda:
  UGX

Ukraine:
  UAH

United Arab Emirates:
  AED

United Kingdom:
  GBP

United States:
  USD

Uruguay:
  UYU

Uzbekistan:
  UZS

Vanuatu:
  VUV

Venezuela:
  VEB

Vietnam:
  VND

Virgin Islands:
  USD

Wallis and Futuna:
  XPF

West Bank:
  ILS; JOD

Western Sahara:
  MAD

Yemen:
  YER

Yugoslavia:
  YUM

Zambia:
  ZMK

Zimbabwe:
  ZWD

Taiwan:
  TWD

======================================================================

@Death rate



Afghanistan:
  17.72 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Albania:
  6.5 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Algeria:
  5.22 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

American Samoa:
  4.31 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Andorra:
  5.41 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Angola:
  24.68 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Anguilla:
  5.61 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Antigua and Barbuda:
  5.87 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Argentina:
  7.58 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Armenia:
  9.74 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Aruba:
  6.21 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Australia:
  7.18 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Austria:
  9.8 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Azerbaijan:
  9.55 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Bahamas, The:
  7.14 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Bahrain:
  3.92 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Bangladesh:
  8.6 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Barbados:
  8.53 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Belarus:
  13.97 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Belgium:
  10.1 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Belize:
  4.7 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Benin:
  14.51 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Bermuda:
  7.42 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Bhutan:
  14.03 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Bolivia:
  8.2 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  7.99 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Botswana:
  24.18 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Brazil:
  9.34 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

British Virgin Islands:
  4.42 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Brunei:
  3.38 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Bulgaria:
  14.53 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Burkina Faso:
  17.05 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Burma:
  12.3 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Burundi:
  16.36 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Cambodia:
  10.65 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Cameroon:
  11.99 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Canada:
  7.47 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Cape Verde:
  7.19 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Cayman Islands:
  5.15 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Central African Republic:
  18.53 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Chad:
  15.4 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Chile:
  5.55 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

China:
  6.74 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Christmas Island:
  NA deaths/1,000 population

Cocos (Keeling) Islands:
  NA deaths/1,000 population

Colombia:
  5.69 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Comoros:
  9.35 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  15.15 deaths/1,000 population
  (2001 est.)

Congo, Republic of the:
  16.22 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Costa Rica:
  4.3 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Cote d'Ivoire:
  16.65 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Croatia:
  11.41 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Cuba:
  7.33 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Cyprus:
  7.65 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Czech Republic:
  10.81 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Denmark:
  10.9 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Djibouti:
  14.66 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Dominica:
  7.19 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Dominican Republic:
  4.7 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Ecuador:
  5.44 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Egypt:
  7.7 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

El Salvador:
  6.18 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Equatorial Guinea:
  13.11 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Eritrea:
  12.07 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Estonia:
  13.48 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Ethiopia:
  17.84 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas):
  NA deaths/1,000 population

Faroe Islands:
  8.69 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Fiji:
  5.75 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Finland:
  9.75 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

France:
  9.09 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

French Guiana:
  4.77 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

French Polynesia:
  4.45 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Gabon:
  17.22 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Gambia, The:
  12.92 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Gaza Strip:
  4.21 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Georgia:
  14.58 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Germany:
  10.42 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Ghana:
  10.26 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Gibraltar:
  8.82 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Greece:
  9.73 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Greenland:
  7.58 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Grenada:
  7.82 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Guadeloupe:
  6.02 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Guam:
  4.2 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Guatemala:
  6.79 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Guernsey:
  9.87 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Guinea:
  17.53 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Guinea-Bissau:
  15.33 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Guyana:
  8.87 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Haiti:
  15 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Honduras:
  5.52 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Hong Kong:
  6.02 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Hungary:
  13.21 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Iceland:
  6.89 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

India:
  8.74 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Indonesia:
  6.3 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Iran:
  5.41 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Iraq:
  6.21 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Ireland:
  8.07 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Israel:
  6.22 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Italy:
  10.07 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Jamaica:
  5.48 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Japan:
  8.34 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Jersey:
  9.27 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Jordan:
  2.62 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Kazakhstan:
  10.61 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Kenya:
  14.35 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Kiribati:
  8.88 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Korea, North:
  6.92 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Korea, South:
  5.93 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Kuwait:
  2.45 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Kyrgyzstan:
  9.13 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Laos:
  13.02 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Latvia:
  14.8 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Lebanon:
  6.39 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Lesotho:
  15.7 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Liberia:
  16.36 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Libya:
  3.51 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Liechtenstein:
  6.7 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Lithuania:
  12.86 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Luxembourg:
  8.88 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Macau:
  3.71 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  7.7 deaths/1,000
  population (2001 est.)

Madagascar:
  12.42 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Malawi:
  22.81 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Malaysia:
  5.2 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Maldives:
  8.09 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Mali:
  18.71 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Malta:
  7.74 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Man, Isle of:
  11.84 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Marshall Islands:
  6.23 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Martinique:
  6.39 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Mauritania:
  13.65 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Mauritius:
  6.82 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Mayotte:
  8.84 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Mexico:
  5.02 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Moldova:
  12.6 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Monaco:
  13 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Mongolia:
  7.1 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Montserrat:
  7.53 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Morocco:
  5.94 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Mozambique:
  24.21 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Namibia:
  20.9 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Nauru:
  7.2 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Nepal:
  10.22 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Netherlands:
  8.69 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Netherlands Antilles:
  6.41 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

New Caledonia:
  5.62 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

New Zealand:
  7.56 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Nicaragua:
  4.82 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Niger:
  22.71 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Nigeria:
  13.91 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Niue:
  NA deaths/1,000 population

Norfolk Island:
  NA deaths/1,000 population

Northern Mariana Islands:
  2.4 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Norway:
  9.83 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Oman:
  4.1 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Pakistan:
  9.26 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Palau:
  7.23 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Panama:
  4.95 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Papua New Guinea:
  7.88 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Paraguay:
  4.75 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Peru:
  5.78 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Philippines:
  6.04 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Pitcairn Islands:
  NA deaths/1,000 population

Poland:
  9.98 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Portugal:
  10.21 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Puerto Rico:
  7.77 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Qatar:
  4.26 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Reunion:
  5.52 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Romania:
  12.28 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Russia:
  13.85 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Rwanda:
  21.13 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Saint Helena:
  6.33 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Saint Kitts and Nevis:
  9.21 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Saint Lucia:
  5.36 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Saint Pierre and Miquelon:
  6.64 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:
  6.16 deaths/1,000 population (2001
  est.)

Samoa:
  6.29 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

San Marino:
  7.68 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sao Tome and Principe:
  7.54 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Saudi Arabia:
  5.94 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Senegal:
  8.35 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Seychelles:
  6.65 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sierra Leone:
  19.19 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Singapore:
  4.24 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Slovakia:
  9.25 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Slovenia:
  9.98 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Solomon Islands:
  4.27 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Somalia:
  18.35 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

South Africa:
  16.77 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Spain:
  9.13 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sri Lanka:
  6.43 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sudan:
  10.04 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Suriname:
  5.68 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Svalbard:
  NA deaths/1,000 population

Swaziland:
  21.84 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sweden:
  10.61 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Switzerland:
  8.77 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Syria:
  5.21 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Tajikistan:
  8.57 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Tanzania:
  12.95 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Thailand:
  7.54 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Togo:
  11.24 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Tokelau:
  NA deaths/1,000 population

Tonga:
  5.74 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Trinidad and Tobago:
  8.82 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Tunisia:
  4.99 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Turkey:
  5.95 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Turkmenistan:
  8.98 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Turks and Caicos Islands:
  4.47 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Tuvalu:
  7.55 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Uganda:
  17.97 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Ukraine:
  16.43 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

United Arab Emirates:
  3.79 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

United Kingdom:
  10.35 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

United States:
  8.7 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Uruguay:
  9.03 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Uzbekistan:
  8 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Vanuatu:
  8.38 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Venezuela:
  4.92 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Vietnam:
  6.22 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Virgin Islands:
  5.47 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Wallis and Futuna:
  NA deaths/1,000 population

West Bank:
  4.37 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

World:
  8.93 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Yemen:
  9.58 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Yugoslavia:
  10.54 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Zambia:
  21.97 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Zimbabwe:
  23.22 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Taiwan:
  6 deaths/1,000 population (2001 est.)

======================================================================

@Debt - external



Afghanistan:
  $5.5 billion (1996 est.)

Albania:
  $1 billion (2000)

Algeria:
  $25 billion (2000 est.)

American Samoa:
  $NA

Andorra:
  $NA

Angola:
  $10.8 billion (2000 est.)

Anguilla:
  $8.8 million (1998)

Antigua and Barbuda:
  $357 million (1998)

Argentina:
  $154 billion (2000 est.)

Armenia:
  $836 million (January 2001)

Aruba:
  $285 million (1996)

Australia:
  $220.6 billion (2000)

Austria:
  $16 billion (1999)

Azerbaijan:
  $1 billion (2000)

Bahamas, The:
  $385.8 million (2000 est.)

Bahrain:
  $2.7 billion (2000)

Bangladesh:
  $17 billion (2000)

Barbados:
  $425 million (2000 est.)

Belarus:
  $1 billion (2000 est.)

Belgium:
  $28.3 billion (1999 est.)

Belize:
  $338 million (1998)

Benin:
  $1.6 billion (1998 est.)

Bermuda:
  $NA

Bhutan:
  $120 million (1998)

Bolivia:
  $6.6 billion (2000)

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  $3.4 billion (2000 est.)

Botswana:
  $455 million (2000)

Brazil:
  $232 billion (2000)

British Virgin Islands:
  $36.1 million (1997)

Brunei:
  $0

Bulgaria:
  $10.4 billion (2000 est.)

Burkina Faso:
  $1.3 billion (1997)

Burma:
  $6 billion (FY99/00 est.)

Burundi:
  $1.12 billion (1999 est.)

Cambodia:
  $829 million (1999 est.)

Cameroon:
  $10.9 billion (2000 est.)

Canada:
  $1.9 billion (2000)

Cape Verde:
  $260 million (2000)

Cayman Islands:
  $70 million (1996)

Central African Republic:
  $790 million (1999 est.)

Chad:
  $1 billion (1999 est.)

Chile:
  $39 billion (2000)

China:
  $162 billion (2000 est.)

Christmas Island:
  $NA

Cocos (Keeling) Islands:
  $NA

Colombia:
  $34 billion (2000 est.)

Comoros:
  $197 million (1997 est.)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  $13 billion (1998 est.)

Congo, Republic of the:
  $5 billion (1999 est.)

Cook Islands:
  $141 million (1996 est.)

Costa Rica:
  $4.2 billion (2000 est.)

Cote d'Ivoire:
  $13.9 billion (2000 est.)

Croatia:
  $9.9 billion (December 1999)

Cuba:
  $11.1 billion (convertible currency, 1999); another $15
  billion -$20 billion owed to Russia (2000)

Cyprus:
  Greek Cypriot area: $NA; Turkish Cypriot area: $NA

Czech Republic:
  $21.3 billion (2000)

Denmark:
  $21.7 billion (2000)

Djibouti:
  $356 million (1999 est.)

Dominica:
  $108.9 million (1999)

Dominican Republic:
  $4.7 billion (2000 est.)

Ecuador:
  $15 billion (1999)

Egypt:
  $31 billion (2000 est.)

El Salvador:
  $4.1 billion (2000 est.)

Equatorial Guinea:
  $290 million (1999 est.)

Eritrea:
  $281 million (2000 est.)

Estonia:
  $1.6 billion (2000 est.)

Ethiopia:
  $10 billion (1999 est.)

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas):
  $NA

Faroe Islands:
  $64 million (1999)

Fiji:
  $193 million (1998)

Finland:
  $30 billion (December 1993)

France:
  $106 billion (1998)

French Guiana:
  $1.2 billion (1988)

French Polynesia:
  $NA

Gabon:
  $3.9 billion (2000 est.)

Gambia, The:
  $440 million (2001 est.)

Gaza Strip:
  $108 million (1997 est.) (includes West Bank)

Georgia:
  $1.9 billion (2000)

Germany:
  $NA

Ghana:
  $7 billion (1999 est.)

Gibraltar:
  $NA

Greece:
  $57 billion (2000 est.)

Greenland:
  $25 million (1999)

Grenada:
  $182.8 million (1998)

Guadeloupe:
  $NA

Guam:
  $NA

Guatemala:
  $4.7 billion (2000 est.)

Guernsey:
  $NA

Guinea:
  $3.6 billion (1999 est.)

Guinea-Bissau:
  $964 million (1998 est.)

Guyana:
  $1.1 billion (2000)

Haiti:
  $1 billion (1998 est.)

Honduras:
  $5.4 billion (2000)

Hong Kong:
  $48.1 billion (1999)

Hungary:
  $29.6 billion (2000)

Iceland:
  $2.6 billion (1999)

India:
  $99.6 billion (2000)

Indonesia:
  $144 billion (2000 est.)

Iran:
  $7.5 billion (2000 est.)

Iraq:
  $139 billion (2000 est.)

Ireland:
  $11 billion (1998)

Israel:
  $38 billion (2000 est.)

Italy:
  $NA

Jamaica:
  $4.7 billion (2000 est.)

Japan:
  $NA

Jersey:
  none

Jordan:
  $8 billion (2000 est.)

Kazakhstan:
  $12.5 billion (2000 est.)

Kenya:
  $6.2 billion (2000)

Kiribati:
  $10 million (1999 est.)

Korea, North:
  $12 billion (1996 est.)

Korea, South:
  $137 billion (November 2000)

Kuwait:
  $6.9 billion (2000 est.)

Kyrgyzstan:
  $1.4 billion (2000 est.)

Laos:
  $2.46 billion (1998 est.)

Latvia:
  $800 million (2000 est.)

Lebanon:
  $9.6 billion (2000 est.)

Lesotho:
  $720 million (2000 est.)

Liberia:
  $3 billion (1999 est.)

Libya:
  $4.1 billion (2000 est.)

Liechtenstein:
  $0 (1996)

Lithuania:
  $2.5 billion (2000 est.)

Luxembourg:
  $NA

Macau:
  $1.7 billion (1997)

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  $1.4 billion (2000)

Madagascar:
  $4.4 billion (1999)

Malawi:
  $2.9 billion (2000 est.)

Malaysia:
  $41.8 billion (2000 est.)

Maldives:
  $237 million (2000 est.)

Mali:
  $3 billion (1999)

Malta:
  $130 million (1997)

Man, Isle of:
  $NA

Marshall Islands:
  $125 million (FY96/97 est.)

Martinique:
  $180 million (1994)

Mauritania:
  $2.1 billion (1999)

Mauritius:
  $1.9 billion (1998 est.)

Mayotte:
  $NA

Mexico:
  $162 billion (2000)

Micronesia, Federated States of:
  $111 million (1997 est.)

Moldova:
  $900 million (2000)

Monaco:
  $NA

Mongolia:
  $760 million (2000 est.)

Montserrat:
  $8.9 million (1997)

Morocco:
  $18.4 billion (2000 est.)

Mozambique:
  $1.4 billion (2000 est.)

Namibia:
  $217 million (2000 est.)

Nauru:
  $33.3 million

Nepal:
  $2.4 billion (1997)

Netherlands:
  $0

Netherlands Antilles:
  $1.35 billion (1996)

New Caledonia:
  $79 million (1998 est.)

New Zealand:
  $30.8 billion (2000 est.)

Nicaragua:
  $6.4 billion (2000 est.)

Niger:
  $1.3 billion (1999 est.)

Nigeria:
  $32 billion (2000 est.)

Niue:
  $NA

Norfolk Island:
  $NA

Northern Mariana Islands:
  $NA

Norway:
  $0 (Norway is a net external creditor)

Oman:
  $4.5 billion (2000 est.)

Pakistan:
  $38 billion (2000 est.)

Palau:
  $0 (FY99/00)

Panama:
  $7.56 billion (2000 est.)

Papua New Guinea:
  $2.9 billion (2000 est.)

Paraguay:
  $3 billion (2000 est.)

Peru:
  $31 billion (2000 est.)

Philippines:
  $52 billion (1999)

Pitcairn Islands:
  $NA

Poland:
  $57 billion (2000)

Portugal:
  $13.1 billion (1997 est.)

Puerto Rico:
  $NA

Qatar:
  $13.1 billion (2000 est.)

Reunion:
  $NA

Romania:
  $9.3 billion (2000 est.)

Russia:
  $163 billion (2000 est.)

Rwanda:
  $1.3 billion (1999)

Saint Helena:
  $NA

Saint Kitts and Nevis:
  $115.1 million (1998)

Saint Lucia:
  $131.6 million (1998)

Saint Pierre and Miquelon:
  $NA

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:
  $99.3 million (1998)

Samoa:
  $180 million (1998 est.)

San Marino:
  $NA

Sao Tome and Principe:
  $268 million (2000)

Saudi Arabia:
  $26.3 billion (2000 est.)

Senegal:
  $4.1 billion (1998 est.)

Seychelles:
  $240 million (1999 est.)

Sierra Leone:
  $1.28 billion (1999)

Singapore:
  $9.7 billion (2000)

Slovakia:
  $10.3 billion (2000 est.)

Slovenia:
  $6.2 billion (2000)

Solomon Islands:
  $152.4 million (1998)

Somalia:
  $2.6 billion (1999 est.)

South Africa:
  $25.6 billion (2000 est.)

Spain:
  $90 billion (1993 est.)

Sri Lanka:
  $9.9 billion (2000)

Sudan:
  $24.9 billion (2000 est.)

Suriname:
  $512 million (2000 est.)

Swaziland:
  $281 million (2000 est.)

Sweden:
  $66.5 billion (1994)

Switzerland:
  $NA

Syria:
  $22 billion (2000 est.)

Tajikistan:
  $1.3 billion (1999 est.)

Tanzania:
  $6.8 billion (2000 est.)

Thailand:
  $90 billion (2000 est.)

Togo:
  $1.5 billion (1999)

Tokelau:
  $0

Tonga:
  $62 million (1998)

Trinidad and Tobago:
  $2.8 billion (2000 est.)

Tunisia:
  $13 billion (2000 est.)

Turkey:
  $109 billion (2000 est.)

Turkmenistan:
  $2.5 billion (2000 est.)

Turks and Caicos Islands:
  $NA

Tuvalu:
  $NA

Uganda:
  $3.6 billion (2000 est.)

Ukraine:
  $10.3 billion (2000)

United Arab Emirates:
  $12.6 billion (2000 est.)

United Kingdom:
  $NA

United States:
  $862 billion (1995 est.)

Uruguay:
  $8 billion (2000 est.)

Uzbekistan:
  $3.3 billion (1999 est.)

Vanuatu:
  $48 million (1997 est.)

Venezuela:
  $34 billion (2000)

Vietnam:
  $13.2 billion (2000)

Virgin Islands:
  $NA

Wallis and Futuna:
  $NA

West Bank:
  $108 million (includes Gaza Strip) (1997 est.)

Western Sahara:
  $NA

World:
  $2 trillion for less developed countries (2000 est.)

Yemen:
  $4.4 billion (2000)

Yugoslavia:
  $14.1 billion (1999 est.)

Zambia:
  $6.5 billion (2000)

Zimbabwe:
  $4.1 billion (2000 est.)

Taiwan:
  $40 billion (2000)

======================================================================

@Dependency status



American Samoa:
  unincorporated and unorganized territory of the US;
  administered by the Office of Insular Affairs, US Department of the
  Interior

Anguilla:
  overseas territory of the UK

Aruba:
  part of the Kingdom of the Netherlands; full autonomy in
  internal affairs obtained in 1986 upon separation from the
  Netherlands Antilles; Dutch Government responsible for defense and
  foreign affairs

Ashmore and Cartier Islands:
  territory of Australia; administered
  from Canberra by the Australian Department of the Environment,
  Sport, and Territories

Baker Island:
  unincorporated territory of the US; administered from
  Washington, DC, by the Fish and Wildlife Service of the US
  Department of the Interior as part of the National Wildlife Refuge
  system

Bassas da India:
  possession of France; administered by a high
  commissioner of the Republic, resident in Reunion

Bermuda:
  overseas territory of the UK

Bouvet Island:
  territory of Norway; administered by the Polar
  Department of the Ministry of Justice and Police from Oslo

British Indian Ocean Territory:
  overseas territory of the UK;
  administered by a commissioner, resident in the Foreign and
  Commonwealth Office in London

British Virgin Islands:
  overseas territory of the UK

Cayman Islands:
  overseas territory of the UK

Christmas Island:
  territory of Australia; administered from Canberra
  by the Australian Department of the Environment, Sport, and
  Territories

Clipperton Island:
  possession of France; administered by France from
  French Polynesia by a high commissioner of the Republic

Cocos (Keeling) Islands:
  territory of Australia; administered from
  Canberra by the Australian Department of the Environment, Sport, and
  Territories

Cook Islands:
  self-governing in free association with New Zealand;
  Cook Islands is fully responsible for internal affairs; New Zealand
  retains responsibility for external affairs, in consultation with
  the Cook Islands

Coral Sea Islands:
  territory of Australia; administered from
  Canberra by the Department of the Environment, Sport, and Territories

Europa Island:
  possession of France; administered by a high
  commissioner of the Republic, resident in Reunion

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas):
  overseas territory of the UK;
  also claimed by Argentina

Faroe Islands:
  part of the Kingdom of Denmark; self-governing
  overseas administrative division of Denmark since 1948

French Guiana:
  overseas department of France

French Polynesia:
  overseas territory of France since 1946

French Southern and Antarctic Lands:
  overseas territory of France
  since 1955; administered from Paris by High Commissioner of the
  Republic Brigitte GIRARDIN (since 25 March 1998), assisted by
  Secretary General Jean-Yves HERMOSO (since NA)

Gibraltar:
  overseas territory of the UK

Glorioso Islands:
  possession of France; administered by a high
  commissioner of the Republic, resident in Reunion

Greenland:
  part of the Kingdom of Denmark; self-governing overseas
  administrative division of Denmark since 1979

Guadeloupe:
  overseas department of France

Guam:
  organized, unincorporated territory of the US with policy
  relations between Guam and the US under the jurisdiction of the
  Office of Insular Affairs, US Department of the Interior

Guernsey:
  British crown dependency

Heard Island and McDonald Islands:
  territory of Australia;
  administered from Canberra by the Department of the Environment,
  Sport, and Territories

Hong Kong:
  special administrative region of China

Howland Island:
  unincorporated territory of the US; administered
  from Washington, DC, by the Fish and Wildlife Service of the US
  Department of the Interior as part of the National Wildlife Refuge
  system

Jan Mayen:
  territory of Norway; administered from Oslo through a
  governor (sysselmann) resident in Longyearbyen (Svalbard); however,
  authority has been delegated to a station commander of the Norwegian
  Defense Communication Service

Jarvis Island:
  unincorporated territory of the US; administered from
  Washington, DC, by the Fish and Wildlife Service of the US
  Department of the Interior as part of the National Wildlife Refuge
  system

Jersey:
  British crown dependency

Johnston Atoll:
  unincorporated territory of the US; administered
  from Washington, DC, by Pacific Air Forces, Hickam AFB, and the Fish
  and Wildlife Service of the US Department of the Interior as part of
  the National Wildlife Refuge system

Juan de Nova Island:
  possession of France; administered by a high
  commissioner of the Republic, resident in Reunion

Kingman Reef:
  unincorporated territory of the US; administered from
  Washington, DC, by the US Fish and Wildlife Service of the
  Department of the Interior

  note:  on 1 September 2000, the Department of the Interior accepted
  restoration of its administrative jurisdiction over Kingman Reef
  from the Department of the Navy; Executive Order 3223 signed 18
  January 2001 established Kingman Reef National Wildlife Refuge to be
  administered by the Director, US Fish and Wildlife Service; this
  refuge is managed to protect the terrestrial and aquatic wildlife of
  Kingman Reef out to the twelve nautical mile territorial sea limit

Macau:
  special administrative region of China

Man, Isle of:
  British crown dependency

Martinique:
  overseas department of France

Mayotte:
  territorial collectivity of France

Midway Islands:
  unincorporated territory of the US; formerly
  administered from Washington, DC, by the US Navy, under Naval
  Facilities Engineering Command, Pacific Division; this facility has
  been operationally closed since 10 September 1993; on 31 October
  1996, through a presidential executive order, the jurisdiction and
  control of the atoll was transferred to the Fish and Wildlife
  Service of the US Department of the Interior as part of the National
  Wildlife Refuge system

Montserrat:
  overseas territory of the UK

Navassa Island:
  unincorporated territory of the US; administered
  from Washington, DC, by the Fish and Wildlife Service, US Department
  of the Interior; in September 1996, the Coast Guard ceased
  operations and maintenance of Navassa Island Light, a 46-meter-tall
  lighthouse located on the southern side of the island; there has
  also been a private claim advanced against the island

Netherlands Antilles:
  part of the Kingdom of the Netherlands; full
  autonomy in internal affairs granted in 1954; Dutch Government
  responsible for defense and foreign affairs

New Caledonia:
  overseas territory of France since 1956

Niue:
  self-governing in free association with New Zealand; Niue
  fully responsible for internal affairs; New Zealand retains
  responsibility for external affairs

Norfolk Island:
  territory of Australia; Canberra administers
  Commonwealth responsibilities on Norfolk Island through the
  Department of Environment, Sport, and Territories

Northern Mariana Islands:
  commonwealth in political union with the
  US; federal funds to the Commonwealth administered by the US
  Department of the Interior, Office of Insular Affairs

Palmyra Atoll:
  incorporated territory of the US; privately owned,
  but administered from Washington, DC, by the Fish and Wildlife
  Service of the US Department of the Interior

Pitcairn Islands:
  overseas territory of the UK

Puerto Rico:
  commonwealth associated with the US

Reunion:
  overseas department of France

Saint Helena:
  overseas territory of the UK

Saint Pierre and Miquelon:
  self-governing territorial collectivity
  of France

South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands:
  overseas territory of
  the UK, also claimed by Argentina; administered from the Falkland
  Islands by UK civil commissioner Donald A. LAMONT, representing
  Queen ELIZABETH II; Grytviken, formerly a whaling station on South
  Georgia, is the garrison town

Svalbard:
  territory of Norway; administered by the Ministry of
  Industry, Oslo, through a governor (sysselmann) residing in
  Longyearbyen, Spitsbergen; by treaty (9 February 1920) sovereignty
  was given to Norway

Tokelau:
  territory of New Zealand; note - Tokelauans are drafting a
  constitution, developing institutions and patterns of
  self-government as Tokelau moves toward free association with
  Wellington

Tromelin Island:
  possession of France; administered by a high
  commissioner of the Republic, resident in Reunion

Turks and Caicos Islands:
  overseas territory of the UK

Virgin Islands:
  organized, unincorporated territory of the US with
  policy relations between the Virgin Islands and the US under the
  jurisdiction of the Office of Insular Affairs, US Department of the
  Interior

Wake Island:
  unincorporated territory of the US; administered from
  Washington, DC, by the Department of the Interior; activities on the
  island are managed by the US Army under a US Air Force permit

Wallis and Futuna:
  overseas territory of France

======================================================================

@Dependent areas



Australia:
  Ashmore and Cartier Islands, Christmas Island, Cocos
  (Keeling) Islands, Coral Sea Islands, Heard Island and McDonald
  Islands, Norfolk Island

France:
  Bassas da India, Clipperton Island, Europa Island, French
  Polynesia, French Southern and Antarctic Lands, Glorioso Islands,
  Juan de Nova Island, New Caledonia, Tromelin Island, Wallis and
  Futuna

  note:  the US does not recognize claims to Antarctica

Netherlands:
  Aruba, Netherlands Antilles

New Zealand:
  Cook Islands, Niue, Tokelau

Norway:
  Bouvet Island, Jan Mayen, Svalbard

United Kingdom:
  Anguilla, Bermuda, British Indian Ocean Territory,
  British Virgin Islands, Cayman Islands, Falkland Islands, Gibraltar,
  Guernsey, Jersey, Isle of Man, Montserrat, Pitcairn Islands, Saint
  Helena, South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands, Turks and
  Caicos Islands

United States:
  American Samoa, Baker Island, Guam, Howland Island,
  Jarvis Island, Johnston Atoll, Kingman Reef, Midway Islands, Navassa
  Island, Northern Mariana Islands, Palmyra Atoll, Puerto Rico, Virgin
  Islands, Wake Island

  note:  from 18 July 1947 until 1 October 1994, the US administered
  the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, but recently entered
  into a new political relationship with all four political units: the
  Northern Mariana Islands is a commonwealth in political union with
  the US (effective 3 November 1986); Palau concluded a Compact of
  Free Association with the US (effective 1 October 1994); the
  Federated States of Micronesia signed a Compact of Free Association
  with the US (effective 3 November 1986); the Republic of the
  Marshall Islands signed a Compact of Free Association with the US
  (effective 21 October 1986)

======================================================================

@Diplomatic representation from the US



Afghanistan:
  the US embassy in Kabul has been closed since January
  1989 due to security concerns

Albania:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Joseph LIMPRECHT

  embassy:  Rruga Elbasanit Labinoti 103, Tirana

  mailing address:  PSC 59, Box 100(A), APO AE 09624

  telephone:  [355] (42) 32875, 33520

  FAX:  [355] (42) 32222

Algeria:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Janet A. SANDERSON

  embassy:  4 Chemin Cheikh Bachir El-Ibrahimi, Algiers

  mailing address:  B. P. Box 549, Alger-Gare, 16000 Algiers

  telephone:  [213] (21) 69-11-86, 69-12-55, 69-18-54, 69-38-75

  FAX:  [213] (21) 69-39-79

American Samoa:
  none (territory of the US)

Andorra:
  the US does not have an embassy in Andorra; the US
  Ambassador to Spain is accredited to Andorra; US interests in
  Andorra are represented by the Consulate General's office in
  Barcelona (Spain); mailing address: Paseo Reina Elisenda, 23, 08034
  Barcelona, Spain; telephone: (3493) 280-2227; FAX: (3493) 205-7705

Angola:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Joseph G. SULLIVAN

  embassy:  number 32 Rua Houari Boumeddienne, Luanda

  mailing address:  international mail: Caixa Postal 6484, Luanda;
  pouch: American Embassy Luanda, Department of State, Washington, DC
  20521-2550

  telephone:  [244] (2) 345-481, 346-418

  FAX:  [244] (2) 346-924

Anguilla:
  none (overseas territory of the UK)

Antigua and Barbuda:
  the US does not have an embassy in Antigua and
  Barbuda (embassy closed 30 June 1994); the US Ambassador to Barbados
  is accredited to Antigua and Barbuda

Argentina:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador James D. WALSH

  embassy:  Avenida Colombia 4300, 1425 Buenos Aires

  mailing address:  international mail: use street address; APO
  address: Unit 4334, APO AA 34034

  telephone:  [54] (11) 4777-4533/4534

  FAX:  [54] (11) 4511-4997

Armenia:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Michael C. LEMMON

  embassy:  18 Marshal Bagramian Avenue, Yerevan

  mailing address:  American Embassy Yerevan, Department of State,
  Washington, DC 20521-7020

  telephone:  [374] (2) 52-16-11

  FAX:  [374] (2) 151-550

Aruba:
  chief of mission:  Consul General Barbara J. STEPHENSON

  embassy:  J. B. Gorsiraweg #1, Curacao

  mailing address:  P. O. Box 158, Willemstad, Curacao

  telephone:  [599] (9) 461-3066

  FAX:  [599] (9) 461-6489

Ashmore and Cartier Islands:
  none (territory of Australia)

Australia:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Edward W. GNEHM, Jr.

  embassy:  Moonah Place, Yarralumla, Canberra, Australian Capital
  Territory 2600

  mailing address:  APO AP 96549

  telephone:  [61] (02) 6214-5600

  FAX:  [61] (02) 6214-5970

  consulate(s) general:  Sydney

  consulate(s):  Melbourne and Perth

Austria:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Kathryn Walt HALL

  embassy:  Boltzmanngasse 16, A-1091, Vienna

  mailing address:  use embassy street address

  telephone:  [43] (1) 313-39-2060

  FAX:  [43] (1) 313-39-2057

Azerbaijan:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Ross WILSON

  embassy:  Azadliq Prospekt 83, Baku 370007

  mailing address:  American Embassy Baku, Department of State,
  Washington, DC 20521-7050

  telephone:  [9] (9412) 98-03-35, 36, 37

  FAX:  [9] (9412) 90-66-71

Bahamas, The:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador-designate J. Richard
  BLANKENSHIP

  embassy:  Queen Street, Nassau

  mailing address:  local or express mail address: P. O. Box N-8197,
  Nassau; stateside address: American Embassy Nassau, P. O. Box
  599009, Miami, FL 33159-9009; pouch address: Nassau, Department of
  State, Washington, DC 20521-3370

  telephone:  [1] (242) 322-1181, 328-2206

  FAX:  [1] (242) 356-0222

Bahrain:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Johnny YOUNG

  embassy:  #979, Road 3119 (next to Al-Ahli Sports Club), Block 321,
  Zinj District, Manama

  mailing address:  American Embassy Manama, PSC 451, FPO AE
  09834-5100; international mail: American Embassy, Box 26431, Manama

  telephone:  [973] 273-300

  FAX:  [973] 272-594

Bangladesh:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Mary Ann PETERS

  embassy:  Road 27, House 110, Banani, Dhaka

  mailing address:  G. P. O. Box 323, Dhaka 1000

  telephone:  [880] (2) 8824700 through 8824722

  FAX:  [880] (2) 8823744

Barbados:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador James A. DALEY

  embassy:  Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce Building, Broad Street,
  Bridgetown

  mailing address:  P. O. Box 302, Bridgetown; FPO AA 34055

  telephone:  [1] (246) 436-4950

  FAX:  [1] (246) 429-5246

Belarus:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Michael KOZAK

  embassy:  46 Starovilenskaya St., Minsk 220002

  mailing address:  use embassy street address

  telephone:  [375] (17) 210-12-83

  FAX:  [375] (17) 234-7853

Belgium:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador (vacant)

  embassy:  27 Boulevard du Regent, B-1000 Brussels

  mailing address:  PSC 82, Box 002, APO AE 09710

  telephone:  [32] (2) 508-2111

  FAX:  [32] (2) 511-2725

Belize:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Carolyn CURIEL

  embassy:  29 Gabourel Lane and Hutson Street, Belize City

  mailing address:  P. O. Box 286, Unit 7401, APO AA 34025

  telephone:  [501] (2) 77161

  FAX:  [501] (2) 30802

Benin:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Pamela E. BRIDGEWATER

  embassy:  Rue Caporal Bernard Anani, Cotonou

  mailing address:  B. P. 2012, Cotonou

  telephone:  [229] 30-06-50, 30-05-13, 30-17-92

  FAX:  [229] 30-14-39, 30-19-74

Bermuda:
  chief of mission:  Consul General Lawrence D. OWEN

  consulate(s) general:  Crown Hill, 16 Middle Road, Devonshire,
  Hamilton

  mailing address:  P. O. Box HM325, Hamilton HMBX; American Consulate
  General Hamilton, Department of State, Washington, DC 20520-5300

  telephone:  [1] (441) 295-1342

  FAX:  [1] (441) 295-1592

Bhutan:
  the US and Bhutan have no formal diplomatic relations,
  although informal contact is maintained between the Bhutanese and US
  Embassy in New Delhi (India)

Bolivia:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador V. Manuel ROCHA

  embassy:  Avenida Arce 2780, San Jorge, La Paz

  mailing address:  P. O. Box 425, La Paz; APO AA 34032

  telephone:  [591] (2) 432254

  FAX:  [591] (2) 433854

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Thomas J.
  MILLER

  embassy:  Alipasina 43, 71000 Sarajevo

  mailing address:  use street address

  telephone:  [387] (33) 445-700

  FAX:  [387] (33) 659-722

  branch office(s):  Banja Luka, Mostar

Botswana:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador John E. LANGE

  embassy:  address NA, Gaborone

  mailing address:  P. O. Box 90, Gaborone

  telephone:  [267] 353982

  FAX:  [267] 356947

Brazil:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Anthony S. HARRINGTON

  embassy:  Avenida das Nacoes, Quadra 801, Lote 3, Distrito Federal
  Cep 70403-900, Brasilia

  mailing address:  Unit 3500, APO AA 34030

  telephone:  [55] (061) 321-7272

  FAX:  [55] (061) 225-9136

  consulate(s) general:  Rio de Janeiro, Sao Paulo

  consulate(s):  Recife

British Indian Ocean Territory:
  none (overseas territory of the UK)

British Virgin Islands:
  none (overseas territory of the UK)

Brunei:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Sylvia Gaye STANFIELD

  embassy:  Third Floor, Teck Guan Plaza, Jalan Sultan, Bandar Seri
  Begawan

  mailing address:  PSC 470 (BSB), FPO AP 96507

  telephone:  [673] (2) 229670

  FAX:  [673] (2) 225293

Bulgaria:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Richard M. MILES

  embassy:  1 Suborna Street, Sofia

  mailing address:  American Embassy Sofia, Department of State,
  Washington, DC 20521-5740

  telephone:  [359] (2) 980-52-41

  FAX:  [359] (2) 981-89-77

Burkina Faso:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Jimmy J. KOLKER

  embassy:  602 Avenue Raoul Follerau, Koulouba, Secteur 4, Ouagadougou

  mailing address:  B. P. 35, Ouagadougou 01

  telephone:  [226] 306723

  FAX:  [226] 303890

Burma:
  chief of mission:  Permanent Charge d'Affaires Priscilla A.
  CLAPP

  embassy:  581 Merchant Street, Rangoon (GPO 521)

  mailing address:  Box B, APO AP 96546

  telephone:  [95] (1) 282055, 282182

  FAX:  [95] (1) 280409

Burundi:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Mary Carlin YATES

  embassy:  Avenue des Etats-Unis, Bujumbura

  mailing address:  B. P. 1720, Bujumbura

  telephone:  [257] 223454

  FAX:  [257] 222926

Cambodia:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Kent M. WIEDEMANN

  embassy:  16-18 Mongkol lem St. 228, Phnom Penh

  mailing address:  Box P, APO AP 96546

  telephone:  [855] (23) 216-436

  FAX:  [855] (23) 216-437

Cameroon:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador John M. YATES

  embassy:  Rue Nachtigal, Yaounde

  mailing address:  P. O. Box 817, Yaounde; pouch: American Embassy,
  Department of State, Washington, DC 20521-2520

  telephone:  [237] 23-40-14, 22-25-89, 23-05-12, 22-17-94

  FAX:  [237] 23-07-53

  branch office(s):  Douala

Canada:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Gordon D. GIFFIN

  embassy:  490 Sussex Drive, Ottawa, Ontario K1N 1G8

  mailing address:  P. O. Box 5000, Ogdensburg, NY 13669-0430

  telephone:  [1] (613) 238-5335, 4470

  FAX:  [1] (613) 238-5720

  consulate(s) general:  Calgary, Halifax, Montreal, Quebec, Toronto,
  and Vancouver

Cape Verde:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Michael D. METELITS

  embassy:  Rua Abilio Macedo 81, Praia

  mailing address:  C. P. 201, Praia

  telephone:  [238] 61 56 16

  FAX:  [238] 61 13 55

Cayman Islands:
  none (overseas territory of the UK)

Central African Republic:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Robert C.
  PERRY

  embassy:  Avenue David Dacko, Bangui

  mailing address:  B. P. 924, Bangui

  telephone:  [236] 61 02 00

  FAX:  [236] 61 44 94

Chad:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Christopher E. GOLDTHWAIT

  embassy:  Avenue Felix Eboue, N'Djamena

  mailing address:  B. P. 413, N'Djamena

  telephone:  [235] (51) 70-09, (51) 90-52, (51) 92-33

  FAX:  [235] (51) 56-54

Chile:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador John O'LEARY

  embassy:  Avenida Andres Bello 2800, Las Condes, Santiago

  mailing address:  APO AA 34033

  telephone:  [56] (2) 232-2600

  FAX:  [56] (2) 339-3710

China:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Joseph W. PRUEHER

  embassy:  Xiu Shui Bei Jie 3, 100600 Beijing

  mailing address:  PSC 461, Box 50, FPO AP 96521-0002

  telephone:  [86] (10) 6532-3431

  FAX:  [86] (10) 6532-6422

  consulate(s) general:  Chengdu, Guangzhou, Shanghai, Shenyang

Christmas Island:
  none (territory of Australia)

Cocos (Keeling) Islands:
  none (territory of Australia)

Colombia:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Anne W. PATTERSON

  embassy:  Calle 22D-BIS, numbers 47-51, Apartado Aereo 3831

  mailing address:  Carrera 45 #22D-45, Bogota, D.C., APO AA 34038

  telephone:  [57] (1) 315-0811

  FAX:  [57] (1) 315-2197

Comoros:
  the US does not have an embassy in Comoros; the ambassador
  to Mauritius is accredited to Comoros

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador
  William Lacy SWING

  embassy:  310 Avenue des Aviateurs, Kinshasa

  mailing address:  Unit 31550, APO AE 09828

  telephone:  [243] (12) 21804, 21807

  FAX:  [243] (88) 43805

Congo, Republic of the:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador David H.
  KAEUPER

  embassy:  NA

  mailing address:  NA

  telephone:  [243] (88) 43608

  FAX:  [243] (88) 41036

  note:  the embassy is temporarily collocated with the US Embassy in
  the Democratic Republic of the Congo (US Embassy Kinshasa, 310
  Avenue des Aviateurs, Kinshasa)

Cook Islands:
  none (self-governing in free association with New
  Zealand)

Coral Sea Islands:
  none (territory of Australia)

Costa Rica:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Thomas J. DODD

  embassy:  Calle 120 Avenida O, Pavas, San Jose

  mailing address:  APO AA 34020

  telephone:  [506] 220-3939

  FAX:  [506] 220-2305

Cote d'Ivoire:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador George MU

  embassy:  5 Rue Jesse Owens, Abidjan

  mailing address:  B. P. 1712, Abidjan 01

  telephone:  [225] 20 21 09 79

  FAX:  [225] 20 22 32 59

Croatia:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Lawrence G. ROSSIN

  embassy:  Andrije Hebranga 2, 100000 Zagreb

  mailing address:  use street address

  telephone:  [385] (1) 455-55-00

  FAX:  [385] (1) 455-85-85

Cuba:
  none; note - the US has an Interests Section in the Swiss
  Embassy, headed by Principal Officer Vicki HUDDLESTON; address:
  USINT, Swiss Embassy, Calzada between L and M Streets, Vedado
  Seccion, Havana; telephone: 33-3551 through 3559 (operator
  assistance required); FAX: 33-3700; protecting power in Cuba is
  Switzerland

Cyprus:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Donald K. BANDLER

  embassy:  corner of Metochiou and Ploutarchou Streets, Engomi, 2407
  Nicosia

  mailing address:  P. O. Box 4536, FPO AE 09836

  telephone:  [357] (2) 776400

  FAX:  [357] (2) 780944

Czech Republic:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador (vacant); Charge
  d'Affaires Steven J. COFFEY

  embassy:  Trziste 15, 11801 Prague 1

  mailing address:  use embassy street address

  telephone:  [420] (2) 5753-0663

  FAX:  [420] (2) 5753-0583

Denmark:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Stuart BERNSTEIN

  embassy:  Dag Hammarskjolds Alle 24, 2100 Copenhagen

  mailing address:  PSC 73, APO AE 09716

  telephone:  [45] 35 55 31 44

  FAX:  [45] 35 38 96 16

Djibouti:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Donald YAMAMOTO

  embassy:  Plateau du Serpent, Boulevard Marechal Joffre, Djibouti

  mailing address:  B. P. 185, Djibouti

  telephone:  [253] 35 39 95

  FAX:  [253] 35 39 40

Dominica:
  the US does not have an embassy in Dominica; US interests
  are served by the embassy in Bridgetown, Barbados

Dominican Republic:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Charles T. MANATT

  embassy:  corner of Calle Cesar Nicolas Penson and Calle Leopoldo
  Navarro, Santo Domingo

  mailing address:  Unit 5500, APO AA 34041-5500

  telephone:  [1] (809) 221-2171

  FAX:  [1] (809) 686-7437

Ecuador:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Gwen C. CLARE

  embassy:  Avenida 12 de Octubre y Avenida Patria, Quito

  mailing address:  APO AA 34039

  telephone:  [593] (2) 562-890

  FAX:  [593] (2) 502-052

  consulate(s) general:  Guayaquil

Egypt:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Daniel C. KURTZER

  embassy:  5 Latin America St., Garden City, Cairo

  mailing address:  Unit 64900, APO AE 09839-4900

  telephone:  [20] (2) 795-7371

  FAX:  [20] (2) 797-2000

El Salvador:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Rose M. LIKINS

  embassy:  Boulevard Santa Elena Final, Antiguo Cuscatlan, La
  Libertad, San Salvador

  mailing address:  Unit 3116, APO AA 34023

  telephone:  [503] 278-4444

  FAX:  [503] 278-6011

Equatorial Guinea:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador John M. YATES; note
  - the US does not have an embassy in Equatorial Guinea (embassy
  closed September 1995); US relations with Equatorial Guinea are
  handled through the US Embassy in Yaounde, Cameroon; the US State
  Department is considering opening a Consulate Agency in Malabo

Eritrea:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador William D. CLARKE

  embassy:  Franklin D. Roosevelt Street, Asmara

  mailing address:  P. O. Box 211, Asmara

  telephone:  [291] (1) 120004

  FAX:  [291] (1) 127584

Estonia:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Melissa WELLS

  embassy:  Kentmanni 20, 15099 Tallinn

  mailing address:  use embassy street address

  telephone:  [372] 668-8100

  FAX:  [372] 668-8134

Ethiopia:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Tibor P. NAGY, Jr.

  embassy:  Entoto Street, Addis Ababa

  mailing address:  P. O. Box 1014, Addis Ababa

  telephone:  [251] (1) 550666

  FAX:  [251] (1) 551328

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas):
  none (overseas territory of the
  UK; also claimed by Argentina)

Faroe Islands:
  none (self-governing overseas administrative division
  of Denmark)

Fiji:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Osman M. SIDDIQUE

  embassy:  31 Loftus Street, Suva

  mailing address:  P. O. Box 218, Suva

  telephone:  [679] 314466

  FAX:  [679] 300081

Finland:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador (vacant); Charge d'Affaires
  Carol VAN VOORST

  embassy:  Itainen Puistotie 14B, FIN-00140, Helsinki

  mailing address:  APO AE 09723

  telephone:  [358] (9) 171931

  FAX:  [358] (9) 174681

France:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador-designate Howard H. LEACH;
  Charge d'Affaires Douglas L. McELHANEY

  embassy:  2 Avenue Gabriel, 75382 Paris Cedex 08

  mailing address:  PSC 116, APO AE 09777

  telephone:  [33] (1) 43-12-22-22

  FAX:  [33] (1) 42 66 97 83

  consulate(s) general:  Marseille, Strasbourg

French Guiana:
  none (overseas department of France)

French Polynesia:
  none (overseas territory of France)

French Southern and Antarctic Lands:
  none (overseas territory of
  France)

Gabon:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador James V. LEDESMA

  embassy:  Boulevard de la Mer, Libreville

  mailing address:  B. P. 4000, Libreville

  telephone:  [241] 76 20 03 through 76 20 04, 74 34 92

  FAX:  [241] 74 55 07

Gambia, The:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador George W. B. HALEY

  embassy:  Fajara, Kairaba Avenue, Banjul

  mailing address:  P. M. B. No. 19, Banjul

  telephone:  [220] 392856, 392858, 391970, 391971

  FAX:  [220] 392475

Georgia:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Kenneth S. YALOWITZ

  embassy:  #25 Antoneli Street, T'bilisi 380026

  mailing address:  use embassy street address

  telephone:  [995] (32) 989-967/68

  FAX:  [995] (32) 933-759

Germany:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador John C. KORNBLUM (was due to
  resign on 20 January 2001)

  embassy:  Neustaedtische Kirchstrasse 4-5, 10117 Berlin

  mailing address:  PSC 120, Box 1000, APO AE 09265

  telephone:  [49] (30) 238-5174

  FAX:  [49] (30) 238-6290

  consulate(s) general:  Duesseldorf, Frankfurt am Main, Hamburg,
  Leipzig, Munich

Ghana:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Kathryn D. ROBINSON

  embassy:  Ring Road East, East of Danquah Circle, Accra

  mailing address:  P. O. Box 194, Accra

  telephone:  [233] (21) 775348

  FAX:  [233] (21) 776008

Gibraltar:
  none (overseas territory of the UK)

Glorioso Islands:
  none (possession of France)

Greece:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador R. Nicholas BURNS

  embassy:  91 Vasilissis Sophias Boulevard, 10160 Athens

  mailing address:  PSC 108, APO AE 09842-0108

  telephone:  [30] (1) 721-2951

  FAX:  [30] (1) 645-6282

  consulate(s) general:  Thessaloniki

Greenland:
  none (self-governing overseas administrative division of
  Denmark)

Grenada:
  chief of mission:  the ambassador to Barbados is accredited
  to Grenada

  embassy:  Point Salines, Saint George's

  mailing address:  P. O. Box 54, Saint George's, Grenada, West Indies

  telephone:  [1] (473) 444-1173 through 1176

  FAX:  [1] (473) 444-4820

Guadeloupe:
  none (overseas department of France)

Guam:
  none (territory of the US)

Guatemala:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Prudence BUSHNELL

  embassy:  7-01 Avenida Reforma, Zone 10, Guatemala City

  mailing address:  APO AA 34024

  telephone:  [502] 331-1541/55

  FAX:  [502] 334-8477

Guernsey:
  none (British crown dependency)

Guinea:
  chief of mission:  Charge d'Affaires Timberlake FOSTER

  embassy:  Rue Ka 038, Conakry

  mailing address:  B. P. 603, Conakry

  telephone:  [224] 41 15 20, 41 15 21, 41 15 23

  FAX:  [224] 41 15 22

Guinea-Bissau:
  the US Embassy suspended operations on 14 June 1998
  in the midst of violent conflict between forces loyal to then
  President VIEIRA and military-led junta

Guyana:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Ronald D. GODARD

  embassy:  100 Young and Duke Streets, Kingston, Georgetown

  mailing address:  P. O. Box 10507, Georgetown

  telephone:  [592] (2) 54900 through 54909, 57960 through 57969

  FAX:  [592] (2) 58497

Haiti:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Brian Dean CURRAN

  embassy:  5 Harry Truman Boulevard, Port-au-Prince

  mailing address:  P. O. Box 1761, Port-au-Prince

  telephone:  [509] 222-0354, 222-0269, 222-0200, 223-4776

  FAX:  [509] 23-1641

Heard Island and McDonald Islands:
  none (territory of Australia)

Holy See (Vatican City):
  chief of mission:  Ambassador (vacant)

  embassy:  Villa Domiziana, Via delle Terme Deciane 26, 00162 Rome

  mailing address:  PSC 59, Box F, APO AE 09624

  telephone:  [39] (06) 4674-3428

  FAX:  [39] (06) 5758346

Honduras:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Frank ALMAGUER

  embassy:  Avenida La Paz, Apartado Postal No. 3453, Tegucigalpa

  mailing address:  American Embassy, APO AA 34022, Tegucigalpa

  telephone:  [504] 238-5114, 236-9320

  FAX:  [504] 236-9037

Hong Kong:
  chief of mission:  Consul General Michael KLOSSON

  consulate(s) general:  26 Garden Road, Hong Kong

  mailing address:  PSC 464, Box 30, FPO AP 96522-0002

  telephone:  [852] 2523-9011

  FAX:  [852] 2845-1598

Hungary:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Peter F. TUFO

  embassy:  Szabadsag Ter 12, H.-1054 Budapest

  mailing address:  pouch: American Embassy Budapest, 5270 Budapest
  Place, Department of State, Washington, DC 20521-5270

  telephone:  [36] (1) 475-4400, 475-4703 (after hours)

  FAX:  [36] (1) 475-4764

Iceland:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Barbara J. GRIFFITHS

  embassy:  Laufasvegur 21, Reykjavik

  mailing address:  US Embassy, PSC 1003, Box 40, FPO AE 09728-0340

  telephone:  [354] 5629100

  FAX:  [354] 5629118

India:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Richard F. CELESTE

  embassy:  Shantipath, Chanakyapuri, New Delhi 110021

  mailing address:  use embassy street address

  telephone:  [91] (11) 688-9033, 611-3033

  FAX:  [91] (11) 419-0025

  consulate(s) general:  Chennai (Madras), Kolkata (Calcutta), Mumbai
  (Bombay)

Indonesia:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Robert GELBARD

  embassy:  Jalan Merdeka Selatan 4-5, Jakarta 10110

  mailing address:  Unit 8129, Box 1, APO AP 96520

  telephone:  [62] (21) 3435-9000

  FAX:  [62] (21) 3435-9922

  consulate(s) general:  Surabaya

Iran:
  none; note - protecting power in Iran is Switzerland

Iraq:
  none; note - the US has an Interests Section in the Polish
  Embassy in Baghdad; address: P. O. Box 2051 Hay Babel, Baghdad;
  telephone: [964] (1) 718-9267; FAX: [964] (1) 718-9297

Ireland:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Michael J. SULLIVAN

  embassy:  42 Elgin Road, Ballsbridge, Dublin 4

  mailing address:  use embassy street address

  telephone:  [353] (1) 668-7122/668-8777

  FAX:  [353] (1) 668-9946

Israel:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Martin S. INDYK

  embassy:  71 Hayarkon Street, Tel Aviv

  mailing address:  PSC 98, Unit 7228, APO AE 09830

  telephone:  [972] (3) 519-7575

  FAX:  [972] (3) 517-3227

  consulate(s) general:  Jerusalem; note - an independent US mission,
  established in 1928, whose members are not accredited to a foreign
  government

Italy:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador (vacant)

  embassy:  Via Veneto 119/A, 00187-Rome

  mailing address:  PSC 59, Box 100, APO AE 09624

  telephone:  [39] (06) 46741

  FAX:  [39] (06) 488-2672

  consulate(s) general:  Florence, Milan, Naples

Jamaica:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Stanley Louis MCLELLAND

  embassy:  Jamaica Mutual Life Center, 2 Oxford Road, 3rd floor,
  Kingston 5

  mailing address:  use embassy street address

  telephone:  [1] (876) 929-4850 through 4859

  FAX:  [1] (876) 926-6743

Japan:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador-designate Howard H. BAKER, Jr.

  embassy:  10-5 Akasaka 1-chome, Minato-ku, Tokyo 107-8420

  mailing address:  Unit 45004, Box 205, APO AP 96337-5004

  telephone:  [81] (03) 3224-5000

  FAX:  [81] (03) 3224-5856

  consulate(s) general:  Naha (Okinawa), Osaka-Kobe, Sapporo

  consulate(s):  Fukuoka, Nagoya

Jersey:
  none (British crown dependency)

Jordan:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador William J. BURNS

  embassy:  Abdoum, Amman

  mailing address:  P. O. Box 354, Amman 11118 Jordan; APO AE
  09892-0200

  telephone:  [962] (6) 5920101

  FAX:  [962] (6) 5920121

Juan de Nova Island:
  none (possession of France)

Kazakhstan:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Richard H. JONES

  embassy:  99/97A Furmanova Street, Almaty, Republic of Kazakhstan
  480091

  mailing address:  American Embassy Almaty, Department of State,
  Washington, DC 20521-7030

  telephone:  [7] (3272) 63-39-21, 50-76-23, 50-76-27 (emergency
  number)

  FAX:  [7] (3272) 63-38-83, 50-76-24

Kenya:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Johnnie CARSON

  embassy:  US Embassy, Mombasa Road, Nairobi

  mailing address:  P. O. Box 30137, Box 21A, Unit 64100, APO AE 09831

  telephone:  [254] (2) 537-800

  FAX:  [254] (2) 537-810

Kiribati:
  the US does not have an embassy in Kiribati; the
  ambassador to the Marshall Islands is accredited to Kiribati

Korea, North:
  none (Swedish Embassy in P'yongyang represents the US
  as consular protecting power)

Korea, South:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador (vacant)

  embassy:  82 Sejong-ro, Chongro-ku, Seoul 110-710

  mailing address:  American Embassy, Unit 15550, APO AP 96205-0001

  telephone:  [82] (2) 397-4114

  FAX:  [82] (2) 738-8845

Kuwait:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador James A. LAROCCO

  embassy:  Bayan, near the Bayan palace, Kuwait City

  mailing address:  P. O. Box 77 Safat, 13001 Safat, Kuwait Unit
  69000, APO AE 09880-9000

  telephone:  [965] 539-5307

  FAX:  [965] 538-0282

Kyrgyzstan:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador John M. O'KEEFE

  embassy:  171 Prospect Mira, 720016 Bishkek

  mailing address:  use embassy street address

  telephone:  [996] (312) 551-241, (517) 777-217

  FAX:  [996] (312) 551-264

Laos:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador (vacant); Charge d'Affairs Karen
  Brevard STEWART

  embassy:  19 Rue Bartholonie, B. P. 114, Vientiane

  mailing address:  American Embassy, Box V, APO AP 96546

  telephone:  [856] (21) 212581, 212582, 212585

  FAX:  [856] (21) 212584

Latvia:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador James H. HOLMES

  embassy:  Raina Boulevard 7, LV-1510, Riga

  mailing address:  American Embassy Riga, PSC 78, Box Riga, APO AE
  09723

  telephone:  [371] 721-0005

  FAX:  [371] 782-0047

Lebanon:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador David M. SATTERFIELD

  embassy:  Antelias, Beirut

  mailing address:  P. O. Box 70-840, Antelias, Beirut; PSC 815, Box
  2, FPO AE 09836-0002

  telephone:  [961] (4) 543600, 543600

  FAX:  [961] (4) 544136

Lesotho:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Katherine H. PETERSON

  embassy:  254 Kingsway, Maseru West (Consular Section)

  mailing address:  P. O. Box 333, Maseru 100, Lesotho

  telephone:  [266] 312666

  FAX:  [266] 310116

Liberia:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Bismarck MYRICK

  embassy:  111 United Nations Drive, P. O. Box 10-0098, Mamba Point,
  Monrovia

  mailing address:  use embassy street address

  telephone:  [231] 226-370 through 226-380

  FAX:  [231] 226-148

Libya:
  the US suspended all embassy activities in Tripoli on 2 May
  1980

Liechtenstein:
  the US does not have an embassy in Liechtenstein, but
  the US Ambassador to Switzerland is also accredited to Liechtenstein

Lithuania:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador John F. TEFFT

  embassy:  Akmenu 6, 2600 Vilnius

  mailing address:  American Embassy, Vilnius, PSC 78, Box V, APO AE
  09723

  telephone:  [370] (2) 223-031

  FAX:  [370] (2) 227-236

Luxembourg:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador James C. HORMEL

  embassy:  22 Boulevard Emmanuel-Servais, L-2535 Luxembourg City

  mailing address:  American Embassy Luxembourg, Unit 1410, APO AE
  09126-1410 (official mail); American Embassy Luxembourg, PSC 9, Box
  9500, APO AE 09123 (personal mail)

  telephone:  [352] 46 01 23

  FAX:  [352] 46 14 01

Macau:
  the US has no offices in Macau, and US interests are
  monitored by the US Consulate General in Hong Kong

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  chief of mission:
  Ambassador Michael M. EINIK

  embassy:  Bul. Ilinden bb, 91000 Skopje

  mailing address:  American Embassy Skopje, Department of State,
  Washington, DC 20521-7120 (pouch)

  telephone:  [389] (91) 116-180

  FAX:  [389] (91) 117-103

Madagascar:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Shirley E. BARNES

  embassy:  14-16 Rue Rainitovo, Antsahavola, Antananarivo

  mailing address:  B. P. 620, Antsahavola, Antananarivo

  telephone:  [261] (20) 22-212-57

  FAX:  [261] (20) 22-345-39

Malawi:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Roger A. MEECE

  embassy:  Area 40, Plot 24, Kenyatta Road

  mailing address:  P. O. Box 30016, Lilongwe 3, Malawi

  telephone:  [265] 773 166

  FAX:  [265] 770 471

Malaysia:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador B. Lynn PASCOE

  embassy:  376 Jalan Tun Razak, 50400 Kuala Lumpur

  mailing address:  P. O. Box No. 10035, 50700 Kuala Lumpur; American
  Embassy Kuala Lumpur, APO AP 96535-8152

  telephone:  [60] (3) 2168-5000

  FAX:  [60] (3) 2168-4961

Maldives:
  the US does not have an embassy in Maldives; the US
  Ambassador to Sri Lanka is accredited to Maldives and makes periodic
  visits there

Mali:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Michael RANNEBERGER

  embassy:  Rue Rochester NY and Rue Mohamed V, Bamako

  mailing address:  B. P. 34, Bamako

  telephone:  [223] 22 54 70

  FAX:  [223] 22 37 12

Malta:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador George SALIBA

  embassy:  3rd Floor, Development House, Saint Anne Street, Floriana,
  Malta VLT 01

  mailing address:  P. O. Box 535, Valletta, Malta, CMR 01

  telephone:  [356] 235960 through 235965

  FAX:  [356] 243229

Man, Isle of:
  none (British crown dependency)

Marshall Islands:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Joan M. PLAISTED

  embassy:  Oceanside, Mejen Weto, Long Island, Majuro

  mailing address:  P. O. Box 1379, Majuro, Republic of the Marshall
  Islands 96960-1379

  telephone:  [692] 247-4011

  FAX:  [692] 247-4012

Martinique:
  none (overseas department of France)

Mauritania:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador John W. LIMBERT

  embassy:  Rue Abdallaye, Nouakchott

  mailing address:  B. P. 222, Nouakchott

  telephone:  [222] 25-26-60, 25-26-63

  FAX:  [222] 25-15-92

Mauritius:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Mark W. ERWIN

  embassy:  4th Floor, Rogers House, John Kennedy Street, Port Louis

  mailing address:  international mail: P. O. Box 544, Port Louis; US
  mail: American Embassy, Port Louis, Department of State, Washington,
  DC 20521-2450

  telephone:  [230] 208-2347, 208-2354, 208-9763 through 9767

  FAX:  [230] 208-9534

Mayotte:
  none (territorial collectivity of France)

Mexico:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Jeffery DAVIDOW

  embassy:  Paseo de la Reforma 305, Colonia Cuauhtemoc, 06500 Mexico,
  Distrito Federal

  mailing address:  P. O. Box 3087, Laredo, TX 78044-3087

  telephone:  [52] (5) 209-9100

  FAX:  [52] (5) 208-3373, 511-9980

  consulate(s) general:  Ciudad Juarez, Guadalajara, Monterrey, Tijuana

  consulate(s):  Hermosillo, Matamoros, Merida, Nuevo Laredo, Nogales

Micronesia, Federated States of:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Diane
  E. WATSON

  embassy:  address NA, Kolonia

  mailing address:  P. O. Box 1286, Kolonia, Pohnpei, Federated States
  of Micronesia 96941

  telephone:  [691] 320-2187

  FAX:  [691] 320-2186

Moldova:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Rudolf Vilem PERINA

  embassy:  Strada Alexei Mateevicie, #103, Chisinau 2009

  mailing address:  use embassy street address; pouch address -
  American Embassy Chisinau, Department of State, Washington, DC
  20521-7080

  telephone:  [373] (2) 23-37-72

  FAX:  [373] (2) 23-30-44

Monaco:
  the US does not have an embassy in Monaco; the US Consul
  General in Marseille (France) is accredited to Monaco

Mongolia:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador John DINGER

  embassy:  inner north side of the Big Ring, just west of the Selbe
  Gol, Ulaanbaatar

  mailing address:  United States Embassy in Mongolia, P. O. Box 1021,
  Ulaanbaatar 13; PSC 461, Box 300, FPO AP 96521-0002

  telephone:  [976] (11) 329095

  FAX:  [976] (11) 320776

Montserrat:
  none (overseas territory of the UK)

Morocco:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Edward M. GABRIEL

  embassy:  2 Avenue de Mohamed El Fassi, Rabat

  mailing address:  PSC 74, Box 3, APO AE 90718

  telephone:  [212] (37) 76 22 65

  FAX:  [212] (37) 76 56 61

  consulate(s) general:  Casablanca

Mozambique:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Sharon P. WILKINSON

  embassy:  Avenida Kenneth Kuanda 193, Maputo

  mailing address:  P. O. Box 783, Maputo

  telephone:  [258] (1) 492797

  FAX:  [258] (1) 490114

Namibia:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Jeffrey A. BADER

  embassy:  Ausplan Building, 14 Lossen Street, Private Bag 12029
  Ausspannplatz, Windhoek

  mailing address:  use embassy street address

  telephone:  [264] (61) 221601

  FAX:  [264] (61) 229792

Nauru:
  the US does not have an embassy in Nauru; the US Ambassador
  to Fiji is accredited to Nauru

Nepal:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Ralph FRANK

  embassy:  Pani Pokhari, Kathmandu

  mailing address:  use embassy street address

  telephone:  [977] (1) 411179, 410531

  FAX:  [977] (1) 419963

Netherlands:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Cynthia P. SCHNEIDER

  embassy:  Lange Voorhout 102, 2514 EJ, The Hague

  mailing address:  PSC 71, Box 1000, APO AE 09715

  telephone:  [31] (70) 310-9209

  FAX:  [31] (70) 361-4688

  consulate(s) general:  Amsterdam

Netherlands Antilles:
  chief of mission:  Consul General Barbara J.
  STEPHENSON

  consulate(s) general:  J. B. Gorsiraweg #1, Willemstad AN, Curacao

  mailing address:  P. O. Box 158, Willemstad, Curacao

  telephone:  [599] (9) 4613066

  FAX:  [599] (9) 4616489

New Caledonia:
  none (overseas territory of France)

New Zealand:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Carol MOSELEY-BRAUN

  embassy:  29 Fitzherbert Terrace, Thorndon, Wellington

  mailing address:  P. O. Box 1190, Wellington; PSC 467, Box 1, FPO AP
  96531-1001

  telephone:  [64] (4) 472-2068

  FAX:  [64] (4) 478-1701

  consulate(s) general:  Auckland

Nicaragua:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Oliver P. GARZA

  embassy:  Apartado Postal 327, Kilometer 4.5 Carretera Sur, Managua

  mailing address:  APO AA 34021

  telephone:  [505] (2) 662298, 666010, 666012, 666013, 666015,
  666018, 666026, 666027, 666032, 666033

  FAX:  [505] (2) 669074

Niger:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Charles O. CECIL

  embassy:  Rue Des Ambassades, Niamey

  mailing address:  B. P. 11201, Niamey

  telephone:  [227] 72 26 61 through 72 26 64

  FAX:  [227] 73 31 67

Nigeria:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Howard Franklin JETER

  embassy:  8 Mambilla Drive, Abuja

  mailing address:  P. O. Box 554, Lagos

  telephone:  [234] (1) 261-0050, -0078

  FAX:  [234] (1) 261-0257

Niue:
  none (self-governing territory in free association with New
  Zealand)

Norfolk Island:
  none (territory of Australia)

Norway:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Robin Chandler DUKE

  embassy:  Drammensveien 18, 0244 Oslo

  mailing address:  PSC 69, Box 1000, APO AE 09707

  telephone:  [47] (22) 44 85 50

  FAX:  [47] (22) 43 07 77

Oman:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador John B. CRAIG

  embassy:  Jameat A'Duwal Al Arabiya Street, Al Khuwair area, Muscat

  mailing address:  international: P. O. Box 202, Code No. 115,
  Medinat Al-Sultan Qaboos, Muscat

  telephone:  [968] 698989

  FAX:  [968] 699189

Pakistan:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador William B. MILAM

  embassy:  Diplomatic Enclave, Ramna 5, Islamabad

  mailing address:  P. O. Box 1048, Unit 62200, APO AE 09812-2200

  telephone:  [92] (51) 2080-0000

  FAX:  [92] (51) 2276427

  consulate(s) general:  Karachi

  consulate(s):  Lahore, Peshawar

Palau:
  chief of mission:  the Ambassador to the Philippines is
  accredited to Palau; Charge d'Affaires Allen E. NUGENT

  embassy:  address NA, Koror

  mailing address:  P. O. Box 6028, Republic of Palau 96940

  telephone:  [680] 488-2920, 2990

  FAX:  [680] 488-2911

Panama:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Simon FERRO

  embassy:  Avenida Balboa and Calle 37, Apartado 6959, Panama City 5

  mailing address:  American Embassy Panama, Unit 0945, APO AA 34002

  telephone:  [507] 207-7000

  FAX:  [507] 227-1964

Papua New Guinea:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Arma Jane KARAER

  embassy:  Douglas Street, Port Moresby

  mailing address:  P. O. Box 1492, Port Moresby

  telephone:  [675] 321-1455

  FAX:  [675] 321-3423

Paraguay:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador David N. GREENLEE

  embassy:  1776 Avenida Mariscal Lopez, Casilla Postal 402, Asuncion

  mailing address:  Unit 4711, APO AA 34036-0001

  telephone:  [595] (21) 213-715

  FAX:  [595] (21) 213-728

Peru:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador John HAMILTON

  embassy:  Avenida La Encalada, Cuadra 17s/n, Surco, Lima 33

  mailing address:  P. O. Box 1995, Lima 1; American Embassy (Lima),
  APO AA 34031-5000

  telephone:  [51] (1) 434-3000

  FAX:  [51] (1) 434-3037

Philippines:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador (vacant); Charge
  d'Affairs Michael E. MALINOWSKI

  embassy:  1201 Roxas Boulevard, Ermita 1000 Manila

  mailing address:  FPO 96515

  telephone:  [63] (2) 523-1001

  FAX:  [63] (2) 522-4361

Pitcairn Islands:
  none (overseas territory of the UK)

Poland:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Christopher R. HILL

  embassy:  Aleje Ujazdowskie 29/31 00-054, Warsaw P1

  mailing address:  American Embassy Warsaw, US Department of State,
  Washington, DC 20521-5010 (pouch)

  telephone:  [48] (22) 628-30-41

  FAX:  [48] (22) 628-82-98

  consulate(s) general:  Krakow

Portugal:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Gerald S. MCGOWAN

  embassy:  Avenida das Forcas Armadas, 1600 Lisbon

  mailing address:  PSC 83, APO AE 09726

  telephone:  [351] (21) 727-3300

  FAX:  [351] (21) 726-9109

  consulate(s):  Ponta Delgada (Azores)

Puerto Rico:
  none (commonwealth associated with the US)

Qatar:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Elizabeth Davenport MCKUNE

  embassy:  22 February Road, Doha

  mailing address:  P. O. Box 2399, Doha

  telephone:  [974] 488 4101

  FAX:  [974] 488 4298

  note:  workweek is Saturday-Wednesday

Reunion:
  none (overseas department of France)

Romania:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador James C. ROSAPEPE

  embassy:  Strada Tudor Arghezi 7-9, Bucharest

  mailing address:  American Embassy Bucharest, Department of State,
  Washington, DC 20521-5260 (pouch)

  telephone:  [40] (1) 210 40 42

  FAX:  [40] (1) 210 03 95

  branch office(s):  Cluj-Napoca

Russia:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador James F. COLLINS

  embassy:  Novinskiy Bul'var 19/23, 121099 Moscow

  mailing address:  APO AE 09721

  telephone:  [7] (095) 728-5000

  FAX:  [7] (095) 728-5203

  consulate(s) general:  Saint Petersburg, Vladivostok, Yekaterinburg

Rwanda:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador George M. STAPLES

  embassy:  Boulevard de la Revolution, Kigali

  mailing address:  B. P. 28, Kigali

  telephone:  [250] 756 01 through 03, 721 26, 771 47

  FAX:  [250] 721 28

Saint Helena:
  none (overseas territory of the UK)

Saint Kitts and Nevis:
  the US does not have an embassy in Saint
  Kitts and Nevis; the US Ambassador in Barbados is accredited to
  Saint Kitts and Nevis

Saint Lucia:
  the US does not have an embassy in Saint Lucia; the US
  Ambassador in Barbados is accredited to Saint Lucia

Saint Pierre and Miquelon:
  none (territorial collectivity of France)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:
  the US does not have an embassy in
  Saint Vincent and the Grenadines; the US Ambassador in Barbados is
  accredited to Saint Vincent and the Grenadines

Samoa:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Carol MOSELEY BRAUN (Ambassador
  to New Zealand and Samoa, resides in Wellington, New Zealand)

  embassy:  5th floor, Beach Road, Apia

  mailing address:  P. O. Box 3430, Apia

  telephone:  [685] 21631

  FAX:  [685] 22030

San Marino:
  the US does not have an embassy in San Marino; the US
  Consul General in Florence (Italy) is accredited to San Marino

Sao Tome and Principe:
  the US does not have an embassy in Sao Tome
  and Principe; the Ambassador to Gabon is accredited to Sao Tome and
  Principe on a nonresident basis and makes periodic visits to the
  islands

Saudi Arabia:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Wyche FOWLER, Jr.

  embassy:  Collector Road M, Diplomatic Quarter, Riyadh

  mailing address:  American Embassy Riyadh, Unit 61307, APO AE
  09803-1307; International Mail: P. O. Box 94309, Riyadh 11693

  telephone:  [966] (1) 488-3800

  FAX:  [966] (1) 488-7360

  consulate(s) general:  Dhahran, Jiddah (Jeddah)

Senegal:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Harriet L. ELAM-THOMAS

  embassy:  Avenue Jean XXIII at the corner of Rue Kleber, Dakar

  mailing address:  B. P. 49, Dakar

  telephone:  [221] 823-4296, 823-7384

  FAX:  [221] 822-2991

Seychelles:
  the US does not have an embassy in Seychelles; the
  ambassador to Mauritius is accredited to Seychelles

Sierra Leone:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Joseph H. MELROSE, Jr.

  embassy:  Corner of Walpole and Siaka Stevens Streets, Freetown

  mailing address:  use embassy street address

  telephone:  [232] (22) 226481 through 226485

  FAX:  [232] (22) 225471

Singapore:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador (vacant)

  embassy:  27 Napier Road, Singapore 258508

  mailing address:  PSC Box 470, FPO AP 96534-0001

  telephone:  [65] 476-9100

  FAX:  [65] 476-9340

Slovakia:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Carl SPIELVOGEL

  embassy:  Hviezdoslavovo Namestie 4, 81102 Bratislava

  mailing address:  use embassy street address

  telephone:  [421] (7) 5443-3338

  FAX:  [421] (7) 5443-0096

Slovenia:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Nancy ELY-RAPHEL

  embassy:  Presernova 31, SI-1000 Ljubljana

  mailing address:  P. O. Box 254, Presernova 31, 1000 Ljubljana;
  American Embassy Ljubljana, Department of State, Washington, DC
  20521-7140

  telephone:  [386] (01) 200-5500

  FAX:  [386] (01) 200-5555

Solomon Islands:
  the US does not have an embassy in Solomon Islands
  (embassy closed July 1993); the ambassador to Papua New Guinea is
  accredited to the Solomon Islands

Somalia:
  the US does not have an embassy in Somalia; US interests
  are represented by the US Embassy in Nairobi at Moi Avenue and Haile
  Selassie Avenue; mail address: P. O. Box 30137, Unit 64100, Nairobi;
  APO AE 09831; telephone: [254] (2) 334141; FAX [254] (2) 340838

South Africa:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Delano E. LEWIS, Sr.

  embassy:  877 Pretorius Street, Pretoria

  mailing address:  P. O. Box 9536, Pretoria 0001

  telephone:  [27] (12) 342-1048

  FAX:  [27] (12) 342-2244

  consulate(s) general:  Cape Town, Durban, Johannesburg

South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands:
  none (overseas
  territory of the UK, also claimed by Argentina)

Spain:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Edward L. ROMERO

  embassy:  Serrano 75, 28006 Madrid

  mailing address:  APO AE 09642

  telephone:  [34] (91) 587-2200

  FAX:  [34] (91) 587-2303

  consulate(s) general:  Barcelona

Sri Lanka:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador E. Ashley WILLS

  embassy:  210 Galle Road, Colombo 3

  mailing address:  P. O. Box 106, Colombo

  telephone:  [94] (1) 448007

  FAX:  [94] (1) 437345

Sudan:
  US officials at the US Embassy in Khartoum were moved for
  security reasons in February 1996 and have been relocated to the US
  Embassies in Nairobi, Kenya, and Cairo, Egypt, from where they make
  periodic visits to Khartoum; the US Embassy in Khartoum is located
  on Sharia Abdul Latif Avenue; mailing address - P. O. Box 699,
  Khartoum; APO AE 09829; telephone - [249] (11) 774611 or 774700; FAX
  - [249] (11) 774137; the US Embassy in Nairobi, Kenya is located in
  the Interim Office Building on Mombasa Road, Nairobi; mailing
  address - P. O. Box 30137, Box 21A, Unit 64100, APO AE 09831;
  telephone - [254] (2) 751613; FAX - [254] (2) 743204; the US Embassy
  in Cairo, Egypt is located at (North Gate) 8, Kamel El-Din Salah
  Street, Garden City, Cairo; mailing address - Unit 64900, APO AE
  09839-4900; telephone - [20] (2) 3557371; FAX - [20] (2) 3573200

Suriname:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Daniel A. JOHNSON

  embassy:  Dr. Sophie Redmondstraat 129, Paramaribo

  mailing address:  Department of State, 3390 Paramaribo Place,
  Washington, DC, 20521-3390

  telephone:  [597] 472900

  FAX:  [597] 420800

Swaziland:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Gregory L. JOHNSON

  embassy:  Central Bank Building, Warner Street, Mbabane

  mailing address:  P. O. Box 199, Mbabane

  telephone:  [268] 404-6441 through 404-6445

  FAX:  [268] 404-5959

Sweden:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Lyndon Lowell OLSON, Jr.

  embassy:  Dag Hammarskjolds VAG 31, SE-11589 Stockholm

  mailing address:  American Embassy Stockholm, Department of State,
  Washington, DC 20521-5750 (pouch)

  telephone:  [46] (8) 783 53 00

  FAX:  [46] (8) 661 19 64

Switzerland:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador J. Richard FREDERICKS

  embassy:  Jubilaeumstrasse 93, 3001 Bern

  mailing address:  use embassy street address

  telephone:  [41] (31) 357 70 11

  FAX:  [41] (31) 357 73 44

Syria:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Ryan C. CROCKER

  embassy:  Abou Roumaneh, Al-Mansur Street, No. 2, Damascus

  mailing address:  P. O. Box 29, Damascus

  telephone:  [963] (11) 333-2814

  FAX:  [963] (11) 224-7938

Tajikistan:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Robert P. J. FINN

  embassy:  temporarily collocated with the US Embassy in Almaty
  (Kazakhstan)

  mailing address:  use embassy street address

  telephone:  NA

  FAX:  NA

Tanzania:
  chief of mission:  Charge d'Affaires Wanda NESBITT

  embassy:  140 Msese Road, Kinondoni District, Dar es Salaam

  mailing address:  P. O. Box 9123, Dar es Salaam

  telephone:  [255] (22) 666010 through 666015

  FAX:  [255] (22) 666701

Thailand:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Richard E. HECKLINGER

  embassy:  120/22 Wireless Road, Bangkok

  mailing address:  APO AP 96546

  telephone:  [66] (2) 205-4000

  FAX:  [66] (2) 254-1171

  consulate(s) general:  Chiang Mai

Togo:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Karl HOFMANN

  embassy:  Angle Rue Kouenou and Rue 15 Beniglato, Lome

  mailing address:  B. P. 852, Lome

  telephone:  [228] 21 29 91 through 21 29 94

  FAX:  [228] 21 79 52

Tokelau:
  none (territory of New Zealand)

Tonga:
  the US does not have an embassy in Tonga; the ambassador to
  Fiji is accredited to Tonga

Trinidad and Tobago:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Edward E.
  SHUMAKER, III (until April, 2001)

  embassy:  15 Queen's Park West, Port-of-Spain

  mailing address:  P. O. Box 752, Port-of-Spain

  telephone:  [1] (868) 622-6371 through 6376, 6176

  FAX:  [1] (868) 628-5462

Tunisia:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Rust DEMMING

  embassy:  144 Avenue de la Liberte, 1002 Tunis-Belvedere

  mailing address:  use embassy street address

  telephone:  [216] (1) 782-566

  FAX:  [216] (1) 789-719

Turkey:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Robert PEARSON

  embassy:  Ataturk Bulvarii 110, Ankara

  mailing address:  PSC 93, Box 5000, APO AE 09823

  telephone:  [90] (312) 468-6110

  FAX:  [90] (312) 467-0019

  consulate(s) general:  Istanbul (closed as of December 2000 for
  security review)

  consulate(s):  Adana (closed as of December 2000 for security review)

Turkmenistan:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Steven R. MANN

  embassy:  9 Pushkin Street, Ashgabat, Turkmenistan 774000

  mailing address:  use embassy street address

  telephone:  [9] (9312) 35-00-45

  FAX:  [9] (9312) 51-13-05

Turks and Caicos Islands:
  none (overseas territory of the UK)

Tuvalu:
  the US does not have an embassy in Tuvalu; the US ambassador
  to Fiji is accredited to Tuvalu

Uganda:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Martin G. BRENNAN

  embassy:  Parliament Avenue, Kampala

  mailing address:  P. O. Box 7007, Kampala

  telephone:  [256] (41) 259792, 259793, 259795

  FAX:  [256] (41) 259794

Ukraine:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Carlos PASCUAL

  embassy:  10 Yuria Kotsubynskoho, 254053 Kiev 53

  mailing address:  use embassy street address

  telephone:  [380] (44) 490-4000

  FAX:  [380] (44) 244-7350

United Arab Emirates:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Theodore H.
  KATTOUF

  embassy:  Al-Sudan Street, Abu Dhabi

  mailing address:  P. O. Box 4009, Abu Dhabi; American Embassy Abu
  Dhabi, Department of State, Washington, DC 20521-6010 (pouch); note
  - work week is Saturday through Wednesday

  telephone:  [971] (2) 4436691

  FAX:  [971] (2) 4435441

  consulate(s) general:  Dubai

United Kingdom:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Philip LADER

  embassy:  24/31 Grosvenor Square, London, W1A1AE

  mailing address:  PSC 801, Box 40, FPO AE 09498-4040

  telephone:  [44] (0) 207499-9000 (switchboard)

  FAX:  [44] (171) 409-1637

  consulate(s) general:  Belfast, Edinburgh

Uruguay:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Christopher C. ASHBY

  embassy:  Lauro Muller 1776, Montevideo 11100

  mailing address:  APO AA 34035

  telephone:  [598] (2) 408-777, 203-6061

  FAX:  [598] (2) 48 86 11

Uzbekistan:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador John Edward HERBST

  embassy:  82 Chilanzarskaya, Tashkent 700115

  mailing address:  use embassy street address; US Embassy Tashkent,
  Department of State, Washington, DC 20521-7110

  telephone:  [998] (71) 120-5444

  FAX:  [998] (71) 120-6335

Vanuatu:
  the US does not have an embassy in Vanuatu; the ambassador
  to Papua New Guinea is accredited to Vanuatu

Venezuela:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Donna J. HRINAK

  embassy:  Calle F con Calle Suapure, Urbanizacion Colinas de Valle
  Arriba, Caracas 1080

  mailing address:  P. O. Box 62291, Caracas 1060-A; APO AA 34037

  telephone:  [58] (2) 975-6411

  FAX:  [58] (2) 975-6710

Vietnam:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Douglas B. "Pete" PETERSON

  embassy:  7 Lang Ha Road, Ba Dinh District, Hanoi

  mailing address:  PSC 461, Box 400, FPO AP 96521-0002

  telephone:  [84] (4) 8431500

  FAX:  [84] (4) 8351510

  consulate(s) general:  Ho Chi Minh City

Virgin Islands:
  none (territory of the US)

Wallis and Futuna:
  none (overseas territory of France)

Western Sahara:
  none

Yemen:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Barbara K. BODINE

  embassy:  Dhahar Himyar Zone, Sheraton Hotel District, Sanaa

  mailing address:  P. O. Box 22347, Sanaa

  telephone:  [967] (1) 303-161

  FAX:  [967] (1) 303-182

Yugoslavia:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador (vacant); Charge
  d'Affaires William MONTGOMERY

  embassy:  Kneza Milosa 30, 11000 Belgrade

  note:  the US reestablished relations with Yugoslavia 17 November
  2000; the embassy is not scheduled to open for business until
  extensive renovations have been completed

Zambia:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador David B. DUNN

  embassy:  corner of Independence and United Nations Avenues

  mailing address:  P. O. Box 31617, Lusaka

  telephone:  [260] (1) 250-955

  FAX:  [260] (1) 252-225

Zimbabwe:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador (vacant); Charge d'Affairs
  Earl M. IRVING

  embassy:  172 Herbert Chitepo Avenue, Harare

  mailing address:  P. O. Box 3340, Harare

  telephone:  [263] (4) 250-593

  FAX:  [263] (4) 796487

Taiwan:
  none; unofficial commercial and cultural relations with the
  people on Taiwan are maintained through a private corporation, the
  American Institute in Taiwan (AIT), which has its headquarters in
  Rosslyn, Virginia (telephone: [1] (703) 525-8474 and FAX: [1] (703)
  841-1385) and offices in Taipei at #7 Lane 134, Hsin Yi Road,
  Section 3, telephone [886] (2) 2709-2000, FAX [886] (2) 2702-7675,
  and in Kao-hsiung at #2 Chung Cheng 3rd Road, 5th Floor, telephone
  [886] (7) 224-0154 through 0157, FAX [886] (7) 223-8237, and the
  American Trade Center at Room 3208 International Trade Building,
  Taipei World Trade Center, 333 Keelung Road Section 1, Taipei 10548,
  telephone [886] (2) 2720-1550, FAX [886] (2) 2757-7162

======================================================================

@Diplomatic representation in the US



Afghanistan:
  none; note - embassy operations suspended 21 August 1997

  consulate(s) general:  New York

Albania:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Petrit BUSHATI

  chancery:  2100 S Street NW, Washington, DC 20008

  telephone:  [1] (202) 223-4942

  FAX:  [1] (202) 628-7342

Algeria:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Idriss JAZAIRY

  chancery:  2118 Kalorama Road NW, Washington, DC 20008

  telephone:  [1] (202) 265-2800

  FAX:  [1] (202) 667-2174

American Samoa:
  none (territory of the US)

Andorra:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador (vacant)

  chancery:  2 United Nations Plaza, 25th Floor, New York, NY 10017

  telephone:  [1] (212) 750-8064

  FAX:  [1] (212) 750-6630

Angola:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Josefina Perpetua Pitra DIAKIDI

  chancery:  1615 M Street, NW, Suite 900, Washington, DC 20036

  telephone:  [1] (202) 785-1156

  FAX:  [1] (202) 785-1258

  consulate(s) general:  New York

Anguilla:
  none (overseas territory of the UK)

Antigua and Barbuda:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Lionel Alexander
  HURST

  chancery:  3216 New Mexico Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20016

  telephone:  [1] (202) 362-5211

  FAX:  [1] (202) 362-5225

  consulate(s) general:  Miami

Argentina:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Guillermo Enrique GONZALEZ

  chancery:  1600 New Hampshire Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20009

  telephone:  [1] (202) 238-6400

  FAX:  [1] (202) 332-3171

  consulate(s) general:  Atlanta, Chicago, Houston, Los Angeles,
  Miami, New York

Armenia:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Arman KIRAKOSIAN

  chancery:  2225 R Street NW, Washington, DC 20008

  telephone:  [1] (202) 319-1976

  FAX:  [1] (202) 319-2982

  consulate(s) general:  Los Angeles

Aruba:
  none (represented by the Kingdom of the Netherlands)

Ashmore and Cartier Islands:
  none (territory of Australia)

Australia:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Michael THAWLEY

  chancery:  1601 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20036

  telephone:  [1] (202) 797-3000

  FAX:  [1] (202) 797-3168

  consulate(s) general:  Atlanta, Honolulu, Los Angeles, New York, and
  San Francisco

Austria:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Peter MOSER

  chancery:  3524 International Court NW, Washington, DC 20008-3035

  telephone:  [1] (202) 895-6700

  FAX:  [1] (202) 895-6750

  consulate(s) general:  Chicago, Los Angeles, and New York

Azerbaijan:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Hafiz Mir Jalal PASHAYEV

  chancery:  (temporary) Suite 700, 927 15th Street NW, Washington, DC
  20005 or P. O. Box 28790, Washington, DC 20038-8790

  telephone:  [1] (202) 842-0001

  FAX:  [1] (202) 842-0004

Bahamas, The:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Joshua SEARS

  chancery:  2220 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008

  telephone:  [1] (202) 319-2660

  FAX:  [1] (202) 319-2668

  consulate(s) general:  Miami and New York

Bahrain:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador (vacant)

  chancery:  3502 International Drive NW, Washington, DC 20008

  telephone:  [1] (202) 342-0741

  FAX:  [1] (202) 362-2192

  consulate(s) general:  New York

Bangladesh:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador-designate A. Tariq KARIM

  chancery:  3510 International Drive NW, Washington, DC 20008

  telephone:  [1] (202) 244-0183

  consulate(s) general:  Los Angeles and New York

Barbados:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Michael KING

  chancery:  2144 Wyoming Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008

  telephone:  [1] (202) 939-9200

  FAX:  [1] (202) 332-7467

  consulate(s) general:  Miami and New York

  consulate(s):  Los Angeles

Belarus:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Valeriy TSEPAKLO

  chancery:  1619 New Hampshire Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20009

  telephone:  [1] (202) 986-1604

  FAX:  [1] (202) 986-1805

  consulate(s) general:  New York

Belgium:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Alexis REYN

  chancery:  3330 Garfield Street NW, Washington, DC 20008

  telephone:  [1] (202) 333-6900

  FAX:  [1] (202) 333-3079

  consulate(s) general:  Atlanta, Chicago, Los Angeles, and New York

Belize:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Lisa M. SHOMAN

  chancery:  2535 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008

  telephone:  [1] (202) 332-9636

  FAX:  [1] (202) 332-6888

  consulate(s) general:  Los Angeles

Benin:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Lucien Edgar TONOUKOUIN

  chancery:  2737 Cathedral Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008

  telephone:  [1] (202) 232-6656

  FAX:  [1] (202) 265-1996

Bermuda:
  none (overseas territory of the UK)

Bhutan:
  none; note - Bhutan has a Permanent Mission to the UN;
  address: 2 United Nations Plaza, 27th Floor, New York, NY 10017;
  telephone [1] (212) 826-1919; the Bhutanese mission to the UN has
  consular jurisdiction in the US

  consulate(s) general:  New York

Bolivia:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Marlene FERNANDEZ del Granado

  chancery:  3014 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008

  telephone:  [1] (202) 483-4410

  FAX:  [1] (202) 328-3712

  consulate(s) general:  Los Angeles, Miami, New York, and San
  Francisco

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Igor DAVIDOVIC

  chancery:  2109 E Street NW, Washington, DC 20037

  telephone:  [1] (202) 337-1500

  FAX:  [1] (202) 337-1502

  consulate(s) general:  New York

Botswana:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Kgosi SEEPAPITSO IV

  chancery:  1531-1533 New Hampshire Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20036

  telephone:  [1] (202) 244-4990

  FAX:  [1] (202) 244-4164

Brazil:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Rubens Antonio BARBOSA

  chancery:  3006 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008

  telephone:  [1] (202) 238-2700

  FAX:  [1] (202) 238-2827

  consulate(s) general:  Boston, Chicago, Houston, Los Angeles, Miami,
  New York, and San Francisco

British Indian Ocean Territory:
  none (overseas territory of the UK)

British Virgin Islands:
  none (overseas territory of the UK)

Brunei:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Pengiran Anak Dato Haji PUTEH
  Ibni Mohammad Alam

  chancery:  3520 International Court NW, Washington, DC 20008

  telephone:  [1] (202) 342-0159

  FAX:  [1] (202) 342-0158

Bulgaria:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Philip DIMITROV

  chancery:  1621 22nd Street NW, Washington, DC 20008

  telephone:  [1] (202) 387-7969

  FAX:  [1] (202) 234-7973

  consulate(s):  New York

Burkina Faso:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Bruno ZIDOUEMBA

  chancery:  2340 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008

  telephone:  [1] (202) 332-5577

  FAX:  [1] (202) 667-1882

Burma:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador-designate U LINN MYAING

  chancery:  2300 S Street NW, Washington, DC 20008

  telephone:  [1] (202) 332-9044

  FAX:  [1] (202) 332-9046

  consulate(s) general:  New York

Burundi:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Thomas NDIKUMANA

  chancery:  Suite 212, 2233 Wisconsin Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20007

  telephone:  [1] (202) 342-2574

  FAX:  [1] (202) 342-2578

Cambodia:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Roland ENG

  chancery:  4500 16th Street NW, Washington, DC 20011

  telephone:  [1] (202) 726-7742

  FAX:  [1] (202) 726-8381

Cameroon:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Jerome MENDOUGA

  chancery:  2349 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008

  telephone:  [1] (202) 265-8790

  FAX:  [1] (202) 387-3826

Canada:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Michael KERGIN

  chancery:  501 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20001

  telephone:  [1] (202) 682-1740

  FAX:  [1] (202) 682-7726

  consulate(s) general:  Atlanta, Boston, Buffalo, Chicago, Dallas,
  Detroit, Los Angeles, Minneapolis, New York, and Seattle

  consulate(s):  Miami, Princeton, San Francisco, and San Jose

Cape Verde:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Ferdinand Amilcar Spencer
  LOPES

  chancery:  3415 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20007

  telephone:  [1] (202) 965-6820

  FAX:  [1] (202) 965-1207

  consulate(s) general:  Boston

Cayman Islands:
  none (overseas territory of the UK)

Central African Republic:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Emmanuel
  TOUABOY

  chancery:  1618 22nd Street NW, Washington, DC 20008

  telephone:  [1] (202) 483-7800

  FAX:  [1] (202) 332-9893

Chad:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Hassaballah Abdelhadi Ahmat
  SOUBIANE

  chancery:  2002 R Street NW, Washington, DC 20009

  telephone:  [1] (202) 462-4009

  FAX:  [1] (202) 265-1937

Chile:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Andres BIANCHI

  chancery:  1140 Connecticut Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20036

  telephone:  [1] (202) 785-1746

  FAX:  [1] (202) 887-5579

  consulate(s) general:  Chicago, Houston, Los Angeles, Miami, New
  York, Philadelphia, San Francisco, and San Juan (Puerto Rico)

China:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador-designate YANG Jiechi

  chancery:  2300 Connecticut Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008

  telephone:  [1] (202) 328-2500

  consulate(s) general:  Chicago, Houston, Los Angeles, New York, and
  San Francisco

Christmas Island:
  none (territory of Australia)

Cocos (Keeling) Islands:
  none (territory of Australia)

Colombia:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Luis Alberto MORENO Mejia

  chancery:  2118 Leroy Place NW, Washington, DC 20008

  telephone:  [1] (202) 387-8338

  FAX:  [1] (202) 232-8643

  consulate(s) general:  Boston, Chicago, Houston, Los Angeles, Miami,
  New Orleans, New York, San Francisco, San Juan (Puerto Rico), and
  Washington, DC

  consulate(s):  Atlanta

Comoros:
  chief of mission:  Deputy Permanent Representative Mahmoud
  Mohamed ABOUD (acting)

  chancery:  (temporary) care of the Permanent Mission of the Federal
  and Islamic Republic of the Comoros to the United Nations, 420 East
  50th Street, New York, NY 10022

  telephone:  [1] (212) 972-8010

  FAX:  [1] (212) 983-4712

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador
  Faida MITIFU

  chancery:  1800 New Hampshire Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20009

  telephone:  [1] (202) 234-7690, 7691

  FAX:  [1] (202) 234-2609

Congo, Republic of the:
  chief of mission:  (vacant); Charge
  d'Affaires ad interim Serge MOMBOULI

  chancery:  4891 Colorado Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20011

  telephone:  [1] (202) 726-5500

  FAX:  [1] (202) 726-1860

Cook Islands:
  none (self-governing in free association with New
  Zealand)

Coral Sea Islands:
  none (territory of Australia)

Costa Rica:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Jaime DAREMBLUM Rosenstein

  chancery:  2114 S Street NW, Washington, DC 20008

  telephone:  [1] (202) 234-2945

  FAX:  [1] (202) 265-4795

  consulate(s) general:  Atlanta, Boston, Chicago, Denver, Houston,
  Los Angeles, Miami, New Orleans, New York, Phoenix, San Antonio, San
  Francisco, St. Paul, and Tampa

  consulate(s):  Austin

Cote d'Ivoire:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Youssouf BAMBA

  chancery:  3421 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20007

  telephone:  [1] (202) 797-0300

Croatia:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Ivan GRDESIC

  chancery:  2343 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008

  telephone:  [1] (202) 588-5899

  FAX:  [1] (202) 588-8936

  consulate(s) general:  Chicago, Cleveland, Los Angeles, New York

Cuba:
  none; note - Cuba has an Interests Section in the Swiss
  Embassy, headed by Principal Officer Fernando REMIREZ DE ESTENOZ;
  address: Cuban Interests Section, Swiss Embassy, 2630 16th Street
  NW, Washington, DC 20009; telephone: [1] (202) 797-8518

Cyprus:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Erato KOZAKOU-MARCOULLIS

  chancery:  2211 R Street NW, Washington, DC 20008

  telephone:  [1] (202) 462-5772

  FAX:  [1] (202) 483-6710

  consulate(s) general:  New York

  note:  representative of the Turkish Cypriot area in the US is Ahmet
  ERDENGIZ; office at 1667 K Street NW, Washington, DC; telephone [1]
  (202) 887-6198

Czech Republic:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Alexsandr VONDRA

  chancery:  3900 Spring of Freedom Street NW, Washington, DC 20008

  telephone:  [1] (202) 274-9100

  FAX:  [1] (202) 966-8540

  consulate(s) general:  Los Angeles and New York

Denmark:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Ulrik Andreas FEDERSPIEL

  chancery:  3200 Whitehaven Street NW, Washington, DC 20008

  telephone:  [1] (202) 234-4300

  FAX:  [1] (202) 328-1470

  consulate(s) general:  Chicago, Los Angeles, and New York

Djibouti:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador ROBLE Olhaye Oudine

  chancery:  Suite 515, 1156 15th Street NW, Washington, DC 20005

  telephone:  [1] (202) 331-0270

  FAX:  [1] (202) 331-0302

Dominica:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Nicholas J. O. LIVERPOOL
  (resident in Dominica)

  chancery:  3216 New Mexico Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20016

  telephone:  [1] (202) 364-6781

  FAX:  [1] (202) 364-6791

  consulate(s) general:  New York

Dominican Republic:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Roberto Bienvenido
  SALADIN-SELIN

  chancery:  1715 22nd Street NW, Washington, DC 20008

  telephone:  [1] (202) 332-6280

  FAX:  [1] (202) 265-8057

  consulate(s) general:  Boston, Chicago, Mayaguez (Puerto Rico),
  Miami, New Orleans, New York, Philadelphia, San Francisco, and San
  Juan (Puerto Rico)

  consulate(s):  Houston, Jacksonville, Mobile, and Ponce (Puerto Rico)

Ecuador:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Ivonne A-BAKI

  chancery:  2535 15th Street NW, Washington, DC 20009

  telephone:  [1] (202) 234-7200

  FAX:  [1] (202) 667-3482

  consulate(s) general:  Chicago, Houston, Los Angeles, Miami, New
  Orleans, New York, Newark, Philadelphia, and San Francisco

Egypt:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Nabil FAHMY

  chancery:  3521 International Court NW, Washington, DC 20008

  telephone:  [1] (202) 895-5400

  FAX:  [1] (202) 244-4319, 5131

  consulate(s) general:  Chicago, Houston, New York, and San Francisco

El Salvador:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Rene Antonio LEON
  Rodriguez

  chancery:  2308 California Street NW, Washington, DC 20008

  telephone:  [1] (202) 265-9671

  consulate(s) general:  Chicago, Dallas, Houston, Los Angeles, Miami,
  New Orleans, New York, and San Francisco

  consulate(s):  Boston

Equatorial Guinea:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Teodoro BIYOGO NSUEA

  chancery:  2020 16th Street NW, Washington, DC 20009

  telephone:  [1] (202) 518-5700

  FAX:  [1] (202) 528-5252

Eritrea:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador GIRMA Asmerom

  chancery:  1708 New Hampshire Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20009

  telephone:  [1] (202) 319-1991

  FAX:  [1] (202) 319-1304

Estonia:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Sven JURGENSON

  chancery:  2131 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008

  telephone:  [1] (202) 588-0101

  FAX:  [1] (202) 588-0108

  consulate(s) general:  New York

Ethiopia:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador (vacant)

  chancery:  3506 International Drive NW, Washington, DC 20008

  telephone:  [1] (202) 364-1200

  FAX:  [1] (202) 686-9857

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas):
  none (overseas territory of the
  UK; also claimed by Argentina)

Faroe Islands:
  none (self-governing overseas administrative division
  of Denmark)

Fiji:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador (vacant); Charge d'Affaires ad
  interim Salaseini Lelelvawalu VOSAILAGI

  chancery:  Suite 240, 2233 Wisconsin Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20007

  telephone:  [1] (202) 337-8320

  FAX:  [1] (202) 337-1996

Finland:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Jaakko Tapani LAAJAVA

  chancery:  3301 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008

  telephone:  [1] (202) 298-5800

  FAX:  [1] (202) 298-6030

  consulate(s) general:  Los Angeles and New York

France:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Francois V. BUJON DE L'ESTANG

  chancery:  4101 Reservoir Road NW, Washington, DC 20007

  telephone:  [1] (202) 944-6000

  FAX:  [1] (202) 944-6166

  consulate(s) general:  Atlanta, Boston, Chicago, Houston, Los
  Angeles, Miami, New Orleans, New York, and San Francisco

French Guiana:
  none (overseas department of France)

French Polynesia:
  none (overseas territory of France)

French Southern and Antarctic Lands:
  none (overseas territory of
  France)

Gabon:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Paul BOUNDOUKOU-LATHA

  chancery:  Suite 200, 2034 20th Street NW, Washington, DC 20009

  telephone:  [1] (202) 797-1000

  FAX:  [1] (202) 332-0668

  consulate(s):  New York

Gambia, The:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador John P. BOJANG

  chancery:  Suite 1000, 1155 15th Street NW, Washington, DC 20005

  telephone:  [1] (202) 785-1399

  FAX:  [1] (202) 785-1430

Georgia:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Tedo JAPARIDZE

  chancery:  Suite 300, 1615 New Hampshire Avenue NW, Washington, DC
  20009

  telephone:  [1] (202) 387-2390

  FAX:  [1] (202) 393-4537

Germany:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Juergen CHROBOG

  chancery:  4645 Reservoir Road NW, Washington, DC 20007

  telephone:  [1] (202) 298-8141

  FAX:  [1] (202) 298-4249

  consulate(s) general:  Atlanta, Boston, Chicago, Detroit, Houston,
  Los Angeles, Miami, New York, San Francisco, Seattle

  consulate(s):  Wellington (America Samoa)

Ghana:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Kobena KOOMSON

  chancery:  3512 International Drive NW, Washington, DC 20008

  telephone:  [1] (202) 686-4520

  FAX:  [1] (202) 686-4527

  consulate(s) general:  New York

Gibraltar:
  none (overseas territory of the UK)

Glorioso Islands:
  none (possession of France)

Greece:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Alexandros PHILON

  chancery:  2221 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008

  telephone:  [1] (202) 939-5800

  FAX:  [1] (202) 939-5824

  consulate(s) general:  Boston, Chicago, Los Angeles, New York, and
  San Francisco

  consulate(s):  Atlanta, Houston, and New Orleans

Greenland:
  none (self-governing overseas administrative division of
  Denmark)

Grenada:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Denis G. ANTOINE

  chancery:  1701 New Hampshire Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20009

  telephone:  [1] (202) 265-2561

  consulate(s) general:  New York

Guadeloupe:
  none (overseas department of France)

Guam:
  none (territory of the US)

Guatemala:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Ariel RIVERA Irias

  chancery:  2220 R Street NW, Washington, DC 20008

  telephone:  [1] (202) 745-4952

  FAX:  [1] (202) 745-1908

  consulate(s) general:  Chicago, Houston, Los Angeles, Miami, New
  York, and San Francisco

Guernsey:
  none (British crown dependency)

Guinea:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Mohamed Aly THIAM

  chancery:  2112 Leroy Place NW, Washington, DC 20008

  telephone:  [1] (202) 483-9420

  FAX:  [1] (202) 483-8688

Guinea-Bissau:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Mario LOPES DA ROSA

  chancery:  Suite 519, 1511 K Street, NW, Washington, DC 20005

  telephone:  [1] (202) 347-3950

  FAX:  [1] (202) 347-3954

Guyana:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Dr. Ali Odeen ISHMAEL

  chancery:  2490 Tracy Place NW, Washington, DC 20008

  telephone:  [1] (202) 265-6900

  consulate(s) general:  New York

Haiti:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador (vacant); Charge d'Affaires
  Louis Harold JOSEPH

  chancery:  2311 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008

  telephone:  [1] (202) 332-4090

  FAX:  [1] (202) 745-7215

  consulate(s) general:  Boston, Chicago, Miami, New York, and San
  Juan (Puerto Rico)

Heard Island and McDonald Islands:
  none (territory of Australia)

Holy See (Vatican City):
  chief of mission:  Apostolic Nuncio
  Archbishop Gabriele MONTALVO

  chancery:  3339 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008

  telephone:  [1] (202) 333-7121

Honduras:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Hugo NOE PINO

  chancery:  Suite 4-M, 3007 Tilden Street NW, Washington, DC 20008

  telephone:  [1] (202) 966-7702

  FAX:  [1] (202) 966-9751

  consulate(s) general:  Chicago, Houston, Los Angeles, Miami, New
  Orleans, New York, San Francisco, San Juan (Puerto Rico)

  honorary consulate(s):  Boston, Detroit, and Jacksonville

Hong Kong:
  none (special administrative region of China)

Hungary:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Geza JESZENSZKY

  chancery:  3910 Shoemaker Street NW, Washington, DC 20008

  telephone:  [1] (202) 362-6730

  FAX:  [1] (202) 966-8135

  consulate(s) general:  Los Angeles and New York

Iceland:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Jon-Baldvin HANNIBALSSON

  chancery:  Suite 1200, 1156 15th Street NW, Washington, DC 20005

  telephone:  [1] (202) 265-6653

  FAX:  [1] (202) 265-6656

  consulate(s) general:  New York

India:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Naresh CHANDRA

  chancery:  2107 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008; note
  - Embassy located at 2536 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC
  20008

  telephone:  [1] (202) 939-7000

  FAX:  [1] (202) 483-3972

  consulate(s) general:  Chicago, Houston, New York, and San Francisco

Indonesia:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador DORODJATUN Kuntjoro-Jakti

  chancery:  2020 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20036

  telephone:  [1] (202) 775-5200

  FAX:  [1] (202) 775-5365

  consulate(s) general:  Chicago, Houston, Los Angeles, New York, and
  San Francisco

Iran:
  none; note - Iran has an Interests Section in the Pakistani
  Embassy; address: Iranian Interests Section, Pakistani Embassy, 2209
  Wisconsin Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20007; telephone: [1] (202)
  965-4990

Iraq:
  none; note - Iraq has an Interest Section in the Algerian
  Embassy headed by Akram AL DOURI; address: Iraqi Interests Section,
  Algerian Embassy, 1801 P Street NW, Washington, DC 20036; telephone:
  [1] (202) 483-7500; FAX: [1] (202) 462-5066

Ireland:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Sean O'HUIGINN

  chancery:  2234 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008

  telephone:  [1] (202) 462-3939

  FAX:  [1] (202) 232-5993

  consulate(s) general:  Boston, Chicago, New York, and San Francisco

Israel:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador David IVRY

  chancery:  3514 International Drive NW, Washington, DC 20008

  telephone:  [1] (202) 364-5500

  FAX:  [1] (202) 364-5607

  consulate(s) general:  Atlanta, Boston, Chicago, Houston, Los
  Angeles, Miami, New York, Philadelphia, and San Francisco

Italy:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Ferdinando SALLEO

  chancery:  3000 Whitehaven Street NW, Washington, DC 20008

  telephone:  [1] (202) 612-4400

  FAX:  [1] (202) 518-2154

  consulate(s) general:  Boston, Chicago, Houston, Miami, New York,
  Los Angeles, Philadelphia, and San Francisco

  consulate(s):  Detroit

Jamaica:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Richard Leighton BERNAL

  chancery:  1520 New Hampshire Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20036

  telephone:  [1] (202) 452-0660

  FAX:  [1] (202) 452-0081

  consulate(s) general:  Miami and New York

Japan:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Shunji YANAI

  chancery:  2520 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008

  telephone:  [1] (202) 238-6700

  FAX:  [1] (202) 328-2187

  consulate(s) general:  Anchorage, Atlanta, Boston, Chicago, Denver,
  Detroit, Hagatna (Guam), Honolulu, Houston, Kansas City (Missouri),
  Los Angeles, Miami, New Orleans, New York, Portland (Oregon), San
  Francisco, and Seattle

  consulate(s):  Saipan (Northern Mariana Islands)

Jersey:
  none (British crown dependency)

Jordan:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Marwan Jamil MUASHER

  chancery:  3504 International Drive NW, Washington, DC 20008

  telephone:  [1] (202) 966-2664

  FAX:  [1] (202) 966-3110

Juan de Nova Island:
  none (possession of France)

Kazakhstan:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Kanat SAUDABAYEV

  chancery:  1401 16th Street, NW, Washington, DC 20036

  telephone:  [1] (202) 232-5488

  FAX:  [1] (202) 232-5845

  consulate(s):  New York

Kenya:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Yusuf Abdulraham NZIBO

  chancery:  2249 R Street NW, Washington, DC 20008

  telephone:  [1] (202) 387-6101

  FAX:  [1] (202) 462-3829

  consulate(s) general:  offices in Los Angeles and New York are
  closed; mission to the UN remains open

Kiribati:
  Kiribati does not have an embassy in the US; there is an
  honorary consulate in Honolulu

Korea, North:
  none; note - North Korea has a Permanent Mission to
  the UN in New York, headed by YI Hyong-chol

Korea, South:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador YANG Song-chol

  chancery:  2450 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008

  telephone:  [1] (202) 939-5600

  FAX:  [1] (202) 387-0205

  consulate(s) general:  Anchorage, Atlanta, Boston, Chicago,
  Honolulu, Houston, Los Angeles, Miami, New York, San Francisco, and
  Seattle

  consulate(s):  Hagatna (Guam)

Kuwait:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador (vacant)

  chancery:  2940 Tilden Street NW, Washington, DC 20008

  telephone:  [1] (202) 966-0702

  FAX:  [1] (202) 966-0517

Kyrgyzstan:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Bakyt ABDRISAYEV

  chancery:  1732 Wisconsin Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20007

  telephone:  [1] (202) 338-5141

  FAX:  [1] (202) 338-5139

Laos:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador VANG Rattanavong

  chancery:  2222 S Street NW, Washington, DC 20008

  telephone:  [1] (202) 332-6416

  FAX:  [1] (202) 332-4923

Latvia:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Aivis RONIS

  chancery:  4325 17th Street NW, Washington, DC 20011

  telephone:  [1] (202) 726-8213, 8214

  FAX:  [1] (202) 726-6785

Lebanon:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Dr. Farid ABBOUD

  chancery:  2560 28th Street NW, Washington, DC 20008

  telephone:  [1] (202) 939-6300

  FAX:  [1] (202) 939-6324

  consulate(s) general:  Detroit, New York, and Los Angeles

Lesotho:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Lebohang Kenneth MOLEKO

  chancery:  2511 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008

  telephone:  [1] (202) 797-5533 through 5536

  FAX:  [1] (202) 234-6815

Liberia:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador William BULL

  chancery:  5201 16th Street NW, Washington, DC 20011

  telephone:  [1] (202) 723-0437

  FAX:  [1] (202) 723-0436

  consulate(s) general:  New York

Libya:
  Libya does not have an embassy in the US

Liechtenstein:
  Liechtenstein's Ambassador to the US, Claudia
  FRITSCHE, is dually accredited to the UN in New York

Lithuania:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Vygaudas USACKAS

  chancery:  2622 16th Street NW, Washington, DC 20009

  telephone:  [1] (202) 234-5860

  FAX:  [1] (202) 328-0466

  consulate(s) general:  Chicago and New York

Luxembourg:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Arlette CONZEMIUS

  chancery:  2200 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008

  telephone:  [1] (202) 265-4171

  FAX:  [1] (202) 328-8270

  consulate(s) general:  New York and San Francisco

Macau:
  none (special administrative region of China)

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  chief of mission:
  Ambassador Ljubica Z. ACEVSKA

  chancery:  3050 K Street, NW, Suite 210, Washington, DC 20007

  telephone:  [1] (202) 337 3063

  FAX:  [1] (202) 337-3093

  consulate(s) general:  New York

Madagascar:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Zina ANDRIANARIVELO-RAZAFY

  chancery:  2374 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008

  telephone:  [1] (202) 265-5525, 5526

  consulate(s) general:  New York

Malawi:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Paul Tony Steven KANDIERO

  chancery:  2408 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008

  telephone:  [1] (202) 797-1007

Malaysia:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador GHAZZALI Sheikh Abdul Khalid

  chancery:  2401 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008

  telephone:  [1] (202) 328-2700

  FAX:  [1] (202) 483-7661

  consulate(s) general:  Los Angeles and New York

Maldives:
  Maldives does not have an embassy in the US, but does have
  a Permanent Mission to the UN in New York

Mali:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Cheick Oumar DIARRAH

  chancery:  2130 R Street NW, Washington, DC 20008

  telephone:  [1] (202) 332-2249, 939-8950

  FAX:  [1] (202) 332-6603

Malta:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador George SALIBA

  chancery:  2017 Connecticut Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008

  telephone:  [1] (202) 462-3611, 3612

  FAX:  [1] (202) 387-5470

  consulate(s):  New York

Man, Isle of:
  none (British crown dependency)

Marshall Islands:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Banny DE BRUM

  chancery:  2433 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008

  telephone:  [1] (202) 234-5414

  FAX:  [1] (202) 232-3236

  consulate(s) general:  Honolulu

Martinique:
  none (overseas department of France)

Mauritania:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Ahmed Ben Khalifa BEN JIDOU

  chancery:  2129 Leroy Place NW, Washington, DC 20008

  telephone:  [1] (202) 232-5700

  FAX:  [1] (202) 319-2623

Mauritius:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Usha JEETAH

  chancery:  Suite 441, 4301 Connecticut Avenue NW, Washington, DC
  20008

  telephone:  [1] (202) 244-1491, 1492

  FAX:  [1] (202) 966-0983

Mayotte:
  none (territorial collectivity of France)

Mexico:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Juan Jose BREMER Martino

  chancery:  1911 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20006

  telephone:  [1] (202) 728-1600

  FAX:  [1] (202) 728-1698

  consulate(s) general:  Atlanta, Austin, Boston, Chicago, Dallas,
  Denver, El Paso, Houston, Laredo (Texas), Los Angeles, Miami, New
  Orleans, New York, Nogales (Arizona), Phoenix, Sacramento, San
  Antonio, San Diego, San Francisco, San Juan (Puerto Rico)

  consulate(s):  Albuquerque, Brownsville (Texas), Calexico
  (California), Corpus Christi, Del Rio (Texas), Detroit, Douglas
  (Arizona), Eagle Pass (Texas), Fresno (California), McAllen (Texas),
  Midland (Texas), Orlando, Oxnard (California), Philadelphia,
  Portland (Oregon), St. Louis, Salt Lake City, San Bernardino, San
  Jose, Santa Ana (California), Seattle, Tucson

Micronesia, Federated States of:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Jesse
  Bibiano MAREHALAU

  chancery:  1725 N Street NW, Washington, DC 20036

  telephone:  [1] (202) 223-4383

  FAX:  [1] (202) 223-4391

  consulate(s) general:  Honolulu and Tamuning (Guam)

Moldova:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Ceslav CIOBANU

  chancery:  2101 S Street NW, Washington, DC 20008

  telephone:  [1] (202) 667-1130

  FAX:  [1] (202) 667-1204

Monaco:
  Monaco does not have an embassy in the US

  consulate(s) general:  New York

Mongolia:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Jalbuugiyn CHOINHOR

  chancery:  2833 M Street NW, Washington, DC 20007

  telephone:  [1] (202) 333-7117

  FAX:  [1] (202) 298-9227

  consulate(s) general:  New York

Montserrat:
  none (overseas territory of the UK)

Morocco:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Abdullah MAAROUFI

  chancery:  1601 21st Street NW, Washington, DC 20009

  telephone:  [1] (202) 462-7979 through 7982

  FAX:  [1] (202) 265-0161

  consulate(s) general:  New York

Mozambique:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Marcos Geraldo NAMASHULUA

  chancery:  Suite 570, 1990 M Street NW, Washington, DC 20036

  telephone:  [1] (202) 293-7146

  FAX:  [1] (202) 835-0245

Namibia:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Leonard Nangolo IIPUMBU

  chancery:  1605 New Hampshire Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20009

  telephone:  [1] (202) 986-0540

  FAX:  [1] (202) 986-0443

Nauru:
  Nauru does not have an embassy in the US, but does have a UN
  office at 800 2nd Avenue, Suite 400 D, New York, New York 10017;
  telephone: (212) 937-0074

  consulate(s):  Hagatna (Guam)

Nepal:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Damodar Prasad GAUTAM

  chancery:  2131 Leroy Place NW, Washington, DC 20008

  telephone:  [1] (202) 667-4550

  FAX:  [1] (202) 667-5534

  consulate(s) general:  New York

Netherlands:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Joris M. VOS

  chancery:  4200 Linnean Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008

  telephone:  [1] (202) 244-5300

  FAX:  [1] (202) 362-3430

  consulate(s) general:  Chicago, Houston, Los Angeles, New York

  consulate(s):  Boston

Netherlands Antilles:
  none (represented by the Kingdom of the
  Netherlands)

New Caledonia:
  none (overseas territory of France)

New Zealand:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador James Brendan BOLGER

  chancery:  37 Observatory Circle NW, Washington, DC 20008

  telephone:  [1] (202) 328-4800

  FAX:  [1] (202) 667-5227

  consulate(s) general:  Los Angeles, New York

Nicaragua:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Alfonso ORTEGA Urbina

  chancery:  1627 New Hampshire Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20009

  telephone:  [1] (202) 939-6570

  FAX:  [1] (202) 939-6542

  consulate(s) general:  Houston, Los Angeles, Miami, New Orleans, New
  York

Niger:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Joseph DIATTA

  chancery:  2204 R Street NW, Washington, DC 20008

  telephone:  [1] (202) 483-4224 through 4227

Nigeria:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Jibril AMINU

  chancery:  1333 16th Street NW, Washington, DC 20036

  telephone:  [1] (202) 986-8400

  FAX:  [1] (202) 775-1385

  consulate(s) general:  Atlanta and New York

Niue:
  none (self-governing territory in free association with New
  Zealand)

Norfolk Island:
  none (territory of Australia)

Norway:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Knut VOLLEBAEK

  chancery:  2720 34th Street NW, Washington, DC 20008

  telephone:  [1] (202) 333-6000

  FAX:  [1] (202) 337-0870

  consulate(s) general:  Houston, Miami, Minneapolis, New York, and
  San Francisco

Oman:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Abdallah bin Muhammad bin Aqil
  al-DHAHAB

  chancery:  2535 Belmont Road, NW, Washington, DC 20008

  telephone:  [1] (202) 387-1980 through 1981, 1988

  FAX:  [1] (202) 745-4933

Pakistan:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Maleeha LODHI

  chancery:  2315 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008

  telephone:  [1] (202) 939-6200

  FAX:  [1] (202) 387-0484

  consulate(s) general:  Los Angeles and New York

Palau:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Hersey KYOTA

  chancery:  1150 18th Street NW, Suite 750, Washington, DC 20036

  telephone:  [1] (202) 452-6814

  FAX:  [1] (202) 452-6281

Panama:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Alfredo BOYD

  chancery:  2862 McGill Terrace NW, Washington, DC 20008

  telephone:  [1] (202) 483-1407

  consulate(s) general:  Atlanta, Houston, Miami, New Orleans, New
  York, Philadelphia, San Francisco, Tampa

Papua New Guinea:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Susan JACOBS

  chancery:  1779 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20036

  telephone:  [1] (202) 745-3680

  FAX:  [1] (202) 745-3679

Paraguay:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Leila RACHID

  chancery:  2400 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008

  telephone:  [1] (202) 483-6960 through 6962

  FAX:  [1] (202) 234-4508

  consulate(s) general:  Detroit (honorary), Los Angeles, Miami, New
  Orleans, New York, San Juan (honorary)

Peru:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Alfonso RIVERO Monsalve

  chancery:  1700 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20036

  telephone:  [1] (202) 833-9860 through 9869

  FAX:  [1] (202) 659-8124

  consulate(s) general:  Chicago, Houston, Los Angeles, Miami, New
  York, Paterson (New Jersey), San Francisco

Philippines:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador (vacant); Acting
  Ambassador Ariel ABADILLA

  chancery:  1600 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20036

  telephone:  [1] (202) 467-9300

  FAX:  [1] (202) 467-9317

  consulate(s) general:  Chicago, Honolulu, Los Angeles, New York, San
  Francisco

  consulate(s):  San Diego

Pitcairn Islands:
  none (overseas territory of the UK)

Poland:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Przemyslaw GRUDZINSKI

  chancery:  2640 16th Street NW, Washington, DC 20009

  telephone:  [1] (202) 234-3800 through 3802

  FAX:  [1] (202) 328-6271

  consulate(s) general:  Chicago, Los Angeles, and New York

Portugal:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Joao Alberto Bacelar ROCHA
  PARIS

  chancery:  2125 Kalorama Road NW, Washington, DC 20008

  telephone:  [1] (202) 328-8610

  FAX:  [1] (202) 462-3726

  consulate(s) general:  Boston, New York, Newark (New Jersey), and
  San Francisco

  consulate(s):  Los Angeles, New Bedford (Massachusetts), Providence
  (Rhode Island)

Puerto Rico:
  none (commonwealth associated with the US)

Qatar:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Badr Umar al-DAFA

  chancery:  4200 Wisconsin Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20016

  telephone:  [1] (202) 274-1600

  FAX:  [1] (202) 237-0061

  consulate(s) general:  Houston

Reunion:
  none (overseas department of France)

Romania:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador (vacant)

  chancery:  1607 23rd Street NW, Washington, DC 20008

  telephone:  [1] (202) 332-4846, 4848, 4851

  FAX:  [1] (202) 232-4748

  consulate(s) general:  Chicago, Los Angeles, and New York

Russia:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Yuriy Viktorovich USHAKOV

  chancery:  2650 Wisconsin Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20007

  telephone:  [1] (202) 298-5700, 5701, 5704, 5708

  FAX:  [1] (202) 298-5735

  consulate(s) general:  New York, San Francisco, and Seattle

Rwanda:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Richard SEZIBERA

  chancery:  1714 New Hampshire Ave. NW, Washington, DC 20009

  telephone:  [1] (202) 232-2882

  FAX:  [1] (202) 232-4544

Saint Helena:
  none (overseas territory of the UK)

Saint Kitts and Nevis:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Dr. Osbert W.
  LIBURD

  chancery:  3216 New Mexico Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20016

  telephone:  [1] (202) 686-2636

  FAX:  [1] (202) 686-5740

Saint Lucia:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Sonia Merlyn JOHNNY

  chancery:  3216 New Mexico Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20016

  telephone:  [1] (202) 364-6792 through 6795

  FAX:  [1] (202) 364-6728

  consulate(s) general:  Miami and New York

Saint Pierre and Miquelon:
  none (territorial collectivity of France)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador
  Ellsworth JOHN

  chancery:  3216 New Mexico Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20016

  telephone:  [1] (202) 364-6730

  FAX:  [1] (202) 364-6736

Samoa:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Tuiloma Neroni SLADE

  chancery:  800 Second Avenue, Suite 400D, New York, NY 10017

  telephone:  [1] (212) 599-6196, 6197

  FAX:  [1] (212) 599-0797

San Marino:
  San Marino does not have an embassy in the US

  honorary consulate(s) general:  Washington, DC, and New York

  honorary consulate(s):  Detroit

Sao Tome and Principe:
  Sao Tome and Principe does not have an
  embassy in the US, but does have a Permanent Mission to the UN,
  headed by First Secretary Domingos Augusto FERREIRA, located at 122
  East 42nd Street, Suite 1604, New York, NY 10168, telephone [1]
  (212) 317-0533

Saudi Arabia:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador BANDAR bin Sultan bin
  Abd al-Aziz Al Saud

  chancery:  601 New Hampshire Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20037

  telephone:  [1] (202) 342-3800

  consulate(s) general:  Houston, Los Angeles, and New York

Senegal:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Mamadou Mansour SECK

  chancery:  2112 Wyoming Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008

  telephone:  [1] (202) 234-0540

Seychelles:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Claude Sylvestre MOREL

  chancery:  800 Second Avenue, Suite 400C, New York, NY 10017

  telephone:  [1] (212) 972-1785

  FAX:  [1] (212) 972-1786

Sierra Leone:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador John Ernest LEIGH

  chancery:  1701 19th Street NW, Washington, DC 20009

  telephone:  [1] (202) 939-9261 through 9263

  FAX:  [1] (202) 483-1793

Singapore:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador CHAN Heng Chee

  chancery:  3501 International Place NW, Washington, DC 20008

  telephone:  [1] (202) 537-3100

  FAX:  [1] (202) 537-0876

  consulate(s) general:  Los Angeles, San Francisco

  consulate(s):  New York

Slovakia:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Martin BUTORA

  chancery:  Suite 250, 2201 Wisconsin Avenue NW, Washington, DC
  20007; note - new chancery opening in June 2001 at International
  Court NW, Washington, DC

  telephone:  [1] (202) 965-5161

  FAX:  [1] (202) 965-5166

Slovenia:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Davorin KRACUN

  chancery:  1525 New Hampshire Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20036

  telephone:  [1] (202) 667-5363

  FAX:  [1] (202) 667-4563

  consulate(s) general:  New York

  consulate(s):  Cleveland

Solomon Islands:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador (vacant); Charge
  d'Affaires ad interim Jeremiah MANELE

  chancery:  800 Second Avenue, Suite 400L, New York, NY 10017

  telephone:  [1] (212) 599-6192, 6193

  FAX:  [1] (212) 661-8925

Somalia:
  Somalia does not have an embassy in the US (ceased
  operations on 8 May 1991)

South Africa:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Makate Sheila SISULU

  chancery:  3051 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008

  telephone:  [1] (202) 232-4400

  FAX:  [1] (202) 265-1607

  consulate(s) general:  Chicago, Los Angeles, and New York

South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands:
  none (overseas
  territory of the UK, also claimed by Argentina)

Spain:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Francisco Javier RUPEREZ

  chancery:  2375 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20037

  telephone:  [1] (202) 452-0100, 728-2340

  FAX:  [1] (202) 833-5670

  consulate(s) general:  Boston, Chicago, Houston, Los Angeles, Miami,
  New Orleans, New York, San Francisco, and San Juan (Puerto Rico)

Sri Lanka:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Warnasena RASAPUTRAM

  chancery:  2148 Wyoming Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008

  telephone:  [1] (202) 483-4025 (through 4028)

  FAX:  [1] (202) 232-7181

  consulate(s) general:  Los Angeles

  consulate(s):  New York

Sudan:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Mahdi Ibrahim MAHAMMAD
  (recalled to Khartoum in August 1998)

  chancery:  2210 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008

  telephone:  [1] (202) 338-8565

  FAX:  [1] (202) 667-2406

Suriname:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador (vacant)

  chancery:  Suite 460, 4301 Connecticut Avenue NW, Washington, DC
  20008

  telephone:  [1] (202) 244-7488

  FAX:  [1] (202) 244-5878

  consulate(s) general:  Miami

Swaziland:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Mary Madzandza KANYA

  chancery:  3400 International Drive NW, Washington, DC 20008

  telephone:  [1] (202) 362-6683

  FAX:  [1] (202) 244-8059

Sweden:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Jan ELIASSON

  chancery:  1501 M Street NW, Washington, DC 20005-1702

  telephone:  [1] (202) 467-2600

  FAX:  [1] (202) 467-2699

  consulate(s) general:  Los Angeles and New York

Switzerland:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Alfred DEFAGO

  chancery:  2900 Cathedral Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008

  telephone:  [1] (202) 745-7900

  FAX:  [1] (202) 387-2564

  consulate(s) general:  Atlanta, Chicago, Houston, Los Angeles, New
  York, and San Francisco

  consulate(s):  Boston

Syria:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Rustum al-ZU'BI

  chancery:  2215 Wyoming Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008

  telephone:  [1] (202) 232-6313

  FAX:  [1] (202) 234-9548

Tajikistan:
  Tajikistan does not have an embassy in the US, but does
  have a permanent mission to the UN: address - 136 East 67th Street,
  New York, NY 10021, telephone - [1] (212) 472-7645, FAX - [1] (212)
  628-0252; permanent representative to the UN is Rashid ALIMOV

Tanzania:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Mustafa Salim NYANG'ANYI

  chancery:  2139 R Street NW, Washington, DC 20008

  telephone:  [1] (202) 939-6125

  FAX:  [1] (202) 797-7408

Thailand:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador TEJ Bunnag

  chancery:  1024 Wisconsin Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20007

  telephone:  [1] (202) 944-3600

  FAX:  [1] (202) 944-3611

  consulate(s) general:  Chicago, Los Angeles, and New York

Togo:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Akoussoulelov BODJONA

  chancery:  2208 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008

  telephone:  [1] (202) 234-4212

  FAX:  [1] (202) 232-3190

Tokelau:
  none (territory of New Zealand)

Tonga:
  Tonga does not have an embassy in the US; Ambassador
  Fetu'utolo TUPOU, resides in London; address: Embassy of the Kingdom
  of Tonga, c/o Tonga High Commission, 36 Molyneux Street, London W1H
  6AB, telephone [44] (171) 724-5828, FAX [44] (171) 723-9074

  consulate(s) general:  San Francisco

Trinidad and Tobago:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador (vacant)

  chancery:  1708 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20036

  telephone:  [1] (202) 467-6490

  FAX:  [1] (202) 785-3130

  consulate(s) general:  Miami and New York

Tunisia:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Hatem ATALLAH

  chancery:  1515 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20005

  telephone:  [1] (202) 862-1850

Turkey:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Baki ILKIN

  chancery:  2525 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008

  telephone:  [1] (202) 612-6700

  FAX:  [1] (202) 612-6744

  consulate(s) general:  Chicago, Houston, Los Angeles, and New York

Turkmenistan:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Mered ORAZOV

  chancery:  2207 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008

  telephone:  [1] (202) 588-1500

  FAX:  [1] (202) 588-0697

Turks and Caicos Islands:
  none (overseas territory of the UK)

Tuvalu:
  Tuvalu does not have an embassy in the US

Uganda:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Edith Grace SSEMPALA

  chancery:  5911 16th Street NW, Washington, DC 20011

  telephone:  [1] (202) 726-7100 through 7102, 0416

  FAX:  [1] (202) 726-1727

Ukraine:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Konstantin Ivanovych
  HRYSHCHENKO

  chancery:  3350 M Street NW, Washington, DC 20007

  telephone:  [1] (202) 333-0606

  FAX:  [1] (202) 333-0817

  consulate(s) general:  Chicago and New York

United Arab Emirates:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Asri Said Ahmad
  al-DHAHIRI

  chancery:  Suite 700, 1255 22nd Street NW, Washington, DC 20037

  telephone:  [1] (202) 955-7999

United Kingdom:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Sir Christopher J. R.
  MEYER

  chancery:  3100 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008

  telephone:  [1] (202) 588-6500

  FAX:  [1] (202) 588-7870

  consulate(s) general:  Atlanta, Boston, Chicago, Cleveland, Houston,
  Los Angeles, New York, and San Francisco

  consulate(s):  Dallas, Denver, Miami, Orlando (reports to Atlanta),
  San Juan, and Seattle

Uruguay:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Hugo FERNANDEZ Faingold

  chancery:  2715 M Street, NW, Washington, DC 20007

  telephone:  [1] (202) 331-1313 through 1316

  FAX:  [1] (202) 331-8142

  consulate(s) general:  Chicago, Los Angeles, Miami, and New York

Uzbekistan:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Shavkat HAMRAKULOV

  chancery:  1746 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20036

  telephone:  [1] (202) 887-5300

  FAX:  [1] (202) 293-6804

  consulate(s) general:  New York

Vanuatu:
  Vanuatu does not have an embassy in the US, it does,
  however, have a Permanent Mission to the UN

Venezuela:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Alfredo TORO Hardy

  chancery:  1099 30th Street NW, Washington, DC 20007

  telephone:  [1] (202) 342-2214

  FAX:  [1] (202) 342-6820

  consulate(s) general:  Boston, Chicago, Houston, Miami, New Orleans,
  New York, San Francisco, and San Juan (Puerto Rico)

Vietnam:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador-designate Nguyen Tam CHIEN

  chancery:  1233 20th Street NW, Washington, DC 20036, Suite 400

  telephone:  [1] (202) 861-0737

  FAX:  [1] (202) 861-0917

  consulate(s) general:  San Francisco

Virgin Islands:
  none (territory of the US)

Wallis and Futuna:
  none (overseas territory of France)

Western Sahara:
  none

Yemen:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Abd al-Wahhab Abdallah al-HAJRI

  chancery:  Suite 705, 2600 Virginia Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20037

  telephone:  [1] (202) 965-4760

  FAX:  [1] (202) 337-2017

Yugoslavia:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Milan PROTIC

  chancery:  2410 California St. NW, Washington, DC 20008

  note:  Yugoslavia restored its diplomatic mission in the US in
  November 2000 after temporarily ceasing its operations at the
  beginning of the March 1999 NATO bombing campaign

Zambia:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Atan SHANSONGA

  chancery:  2419 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20008

  telephone:  [1] (202) 265-9717 through 9719

  FAX:  [1] (202) 332-0826

Zimbabwe:
  chief of mission:  Ambassador Simbi Veke MUBAKO

  chancery:  1608 New Hampshire Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20009

  telephone:  [1] (202) 332-7100

  FAX:  [1] (202) 483-9326

Taiwan:
  none; unofficial commercial and cultural relations with the
  people of the US are maintained through a private instrumentality,
  the Taipei Economic and Cultural Representative Office (TECRO) in
  the US with headquarters in Taipei and field offices in Washington
  and 12 other US cities

======================================================================

@Disputes - international



Afghanistan:
  support to Islamic militants worldwide by some
  factions; question over which group should hold Afghanistan's seat
  at the UN

Albania:
  the Albanian Government supports protection of the rights
  of ethnic Albanians outside of its borders but has downplayed them
  to further its primary foreign policy goal of regional cooperation;
  Albanian majority in Kosovo seeks independence from Yugoslavia;
  Albanians in The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia claim
  discrimination in education, access to public-sector jobs, and
  representation in government

Algeria:
  part of southeastern region claimed by Libya; Algeria
  supports exiled West Saharan Polisario Front and rejects Moroccan
  administration of Western Sahara

American Samoa:
  none

Andorra:
  none

Angola:
  none

Anguilla:
  none

Antarctica:
  Antarctic Treaty freezes claims (see Antarctic Treaty
  Summary in Government type entry); sections (some overlapping)
  claimed by Argentina, Australia, Chile, France, New Zealand, Norway,
  and UK; the US and most other nations do not recognize the
  territorial claims of other nations and have made no claims
  themselves (the US and Russia reserve the right to do so); no claims
  have been made in the sector between 90 degrees west and 150 degrees
  west

Antigua and Barbuda:
  none

Arctic Ocean:
  some maritime disputes (see littoral states)

Argentina:
  claims UK-administered Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas);
  claims UK-administered South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands;
  territorial claim in Antarctica partially overlaps British and
  Chilean claims

Armenia:
  Armenia supports ethnic Armenians in the Nagorno-Karabakh
  region of Azerbaijan in the longstanding, separatist conflict
  against the Azerbaijani Government; traditional demands regarding
  former Armenian lands in Turkey have subsided

Aruba:
  none

Ashmore and Cartier Islands:
  none

Atlantic Ocean:
  some maritime disputes (see littoral states)

Australia:
  territorial claim in Antarctica (Australian Antarctic
  Territory)

Austria:
  minor disputes with Czech Republic and Slovenia over
  nuclear power plants and post-World War II treatment of
  German-speaking minorities

Azerbaijan:
  Armenia supports ethnic Armenians in the
  Nagorno-Karabakh region of Azerbaijan in the longstanding,
  separatist conflict against the Azerbaijani Government; Caspian Sea
  boundaries are not yet determined among Azerbaijan, Iran,
  Kazakhstan, Russia, and Turkmenistan

Bahamas, The:
  none

Bahrain:
  in March of 2001, the International Court of Justice (ICJ)
  awarded the Hawar Islands to Bahrain and also adjusted Bahrain's
  maritime boundary with Qatar

Baker Island:
  none

Bangladesh:
  a portion of the boundary with India is indefinite;
  exchange of 151 enclaves along border with India subject to
  ratification by Indian parliament; dispute with India over South
  Talpatty/New Moore Island

Barbados:
  none

Bassas da India:
  claimed by Madagascar

Belarus:
  none

Belgium:
  none

Belize:
  Guatemala periodically asserts claims to territory in
  southern Belize; to deter cross-border squatting, both states in
  2000 agreed to a "line of adjacency" based on the de facto boundary,
  which is not recognized by Guatemala

Benin:
  none

Bermuda:
  none

Bhutan:
  refugee issue over the presence in Nepal of approximately
  98,700 Bhutanese refugees, 90% of whom are in seven United Nations
  Office of the High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) camps

Bolivia:
  has wanted a sovereign corridor to the South Pacific Ocean
  since the Atacama area was lost to Chile in 1884; dispute with Chile
  over Rio Lauca water rights

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  none

Botswana:
  none

Bouvet Island:
  none

Brazil:
  none

British Indian Ocean Territory:
  the Chagos Archipelago is claimed by
  Mauritius and Seychelles

British Virgin Islands:
  none

Brunei:
  possibly involved in a complex dispute over the Spratly
  Islands with China, Malaysia, Philippines, Taiwan, and Vietnam; in
  1984, Brunei established an exclusive fishing zone that encompasses
  Louisa Reef in the southern Spratly Islands, but has not publicly
  claimed the island

Burkina Faso:
  none

Burma:
  sporadic border hostilities with Thailand over border
  alignment and ethnic Shan rebels operating in cross-border region

Burundi:
  none

Cambodia:
  portions of boundary with Vietnam are disputed; parts of
  border with Thailand are indefinite

Cameroon:
  delimitation of international boundaries in the vicinity
  of Lake Chad, the lack of which led to border incidents in the past,
  is complete and awaits ratification by Cameroon, Chad, Niger, and
  Nigeria; tripartite maritime boundary and economic zone dispute with
  Equatorial Guinea and Nigeria is currently before the ICJ

Canada:
  maritime boundary disputes with the US (Dixon Entrance,
  Beaufort Sea, Strait of Juan de Fuca, Machias Seal Island)

Cape Verde:
  none

Cayman Islands:
  none

Central African Republic:
  none

Chad:
  delimitation of international boundaries in the vicinity of
  Lake Chad, the lack of which led to border incidents in the past,
  has been completed and awaits ratification by Cameroon, Chad, Niger,
  and Nigeria

Chile:
  Bolivia has wanted a sovereign corridor to the South Pacific
  Ocean since the Atacama area was lost to Chile in 1884; dispute with
  Bolivia over Rio Lauca water rights; territorial claim in Antarctica
  (Chilean Antarctic Territory) partially overlaps Argentine and
  British claims

China:
  most of boundary with India in dispute; dispute over at least
  two small sections of the boundary with Russia remains to be
  settled, despite 1997 boundary agreement; portions of the boundary
  with Tajikistan are indefinite; 33-km section of boundary with North
  Korea in the Paektu-san (mountain) area is indefinite; involved in a
  complex dispute over the Spratly Islands with Malaysia, Philippines,
  Taiwan, Vietnam, and possibly Brunei; maritime boundary agreement
  with Vietnam in the Gulf of Tonkin awaits ratification; Paracel
  Islands occupied by China, but claimed by Vietnam and Taiwan; claims
  Japanese-administered Senkaku-shoto (Senkaku Islands/Diaoyu Tai), as
  does Taiwan

Christmas Island:
  none

Clipperton Island:
  none

Cocos (Keeling) Islands:
  none

Colombia:
  maritime boundary dispute with Venezuela in the Gulf of
  Venezuela; territorial disputes with Nicaragua over Archipelago de
  San Andres y Providencia and Quita Sueno Bank

Comoros:
  claims French-administered Mayotte; the island of Anjouan
  (Nzwani) has moved to secede from Comoros

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  the Democratic Republic of the
  Congo is in the grip of a civil war that has drawn in military
  forces from neighboring states, with Uganda and Rwanda supporting
  the rebel movements that occupy much of the eastern portion of the
  state; most of the Congo river boundary with the Republic of the
  Congo is indefinite (no agreement has been reached on the division
  of the river or its islands, except in the Pool Malebo/Stanley Pool
  area)

Congo, Republic of the:
  most of the Congo river boundary with the
  Democratic Republic of the Congo is indefinite (no agreement has
  been reached on the division of the river or its islands, except in
  the Stanley Pool/Pool Malebo area)

Cook Islands:
  none

Coral Sea Islands:
  none

Costa Rica:
  legal dispute over navigational rights of Rio San Juan
  on border with Nicaragua

Cote d'Ivoire:
  none

Croatia:
  Croatia and Italy made progress toward resolving a
  bilateral issue dating from World War II over property and ethnic
  minority rights; progress with Slovenia on discussions of
  adjustments to land boundary, but problems remain in defining
  maritime boundary in Gulf of Piran; Croatia and Yugoslavia are
  negotiating the status of the strategically important Prevlaka
  Peninsula, which is currently under a UN military observer mission
  (UNMOP)

Cuba:
  US Naval Base at Guantanamo Bay is leased to US and only
  mutual agreement or US abandonment of the area can terminate the
  lease

Cyprus:
  1974 hostilities divided the island into two de facto
  autonomous areas, a Greek Cypriot area controlled by the
  internationally recognized Cypriot Government (59% of the island's
  land area) and a Turkish-Cypriot area (37% of the island), that are
  separated by a UN buffer zone (4% of the island); there are two UK
  sovereign base areas mostly within the Greek Cypriot portion of the
  island

Czech Republic:
  Liechtenstein's royal family claims restitution for
  1,600 sq km of land in the Czech Republic confiscated in 1918;
  individual Sudeten German claims for restitution of property
  confiscated in connection with their expulsion after World War II;
  Austria has minor dispute with Czech Republic over nuclear power
  plants and post-World War II treatment of German-speaking minorities

Denmark:
  Rockall continental shelf dispute involving Iceland and the
  UK (Ireland and the UK have signed a boundary agreement in the
  Rockall area); dispute with Iceland over the Faroe Islands fisheries
  median line boundary within 200 NM; disputes with Iceland, the UK,
  and Ireland over the Faroe Islands continental shelf boundary
  outside 200 NM

Djibouti:
  none

Dominica:
  none

Dominican Republic:
  none

Ecuador:
  none

Egypt:
  Egypt asserts its claim to the "Hala'ib Triangle," a barren
  area of 20,580 sq km under partial Sudanese administration that is
  defined by an administrative boundary which supersedes the treaty
  boundary of 1899

El Salvador:
  with respect to the maritime boundary in the Golfo de
  Fonseca, the ICJ referred to the line determined by the 1900
  Honduras-Nicaragua Mixed Boundary Commission and advised that some
  tripartite resolution among El Salvador, Honduras and Nicaragua
  likely would be required

Equatorial Guinea:
  tripartite maritime boundary and economic zone
  dispute with Cameroon and Nigeria is currently before the ICJ;
  maritime boundary dispute with Gabon because of disputed sovereignty
  over islands in Corisco Bay

Eritrea:
  as a result of the 12 December 2000 peace agreement ending
  a two-year war with Ethiopia, the UN will administer a 25-km wide
  temporary security zone within Eritrea until a joint boundary
  commission delimits and demarcates a final boundary

Estonia:
  Estonian and Russian negotiators reached a technical border
  agreement in December 1996 which has not been signed nor ratified by
  Russia as of February 2001

Ethiopia:
  most of the southern half of the boundary with Somalia is
  a Provisional Administrative Line; as a result of the 12 December
  2000 peace agreement ending a two year war with Eritrea, the UN will
  administer a 25-km wide temporary security zone within Eritrea until
  a joint boundary commission delimits and demarcates a final
  boundary; dispute over alignment of boundary with Eritrea led to
  armed conflict in 1998; a peace accord signed in December 2000
  provides for UN-assisted arbitration and demarcation of the border

Europa Island:
  claimed by Madagascar

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas):
  claimed by Argentina

Faroe Islands:
  Faroese are considering proposals for full
  independence

Fiji:
  none

Finland:
  none

France:
  Madagascar claims Bassas da India, Europa Island, Glorioso
  Islands, Juan de Nova Island, and Tromelin Island; Comoros claims
  Mayotte; Mauritius claims Tromelin Island; territorial dispute
  between Suriname and French Guiana; territorial claim in Antarctica
  (Adelie Land); Matthew and Hunter Islands east of New Caledonia
  claimed by France and Vanuatu

French Guiana:
  Suriname claims area between Riviere Litani and
  Riviere Marouini (both headwaters of the Lawa)

French Polynesia:
  none

French Southern and Antarctic Lands:
  "Adelie Land" claim in
  Antarctica is not recognized by the US

Gabon:
  maritime boundary dispute with Equatorial Guinea because of
  disputed sovereignty over islands in Corisco Bay

Gambia, The:
  none

Gaza Strip:
  West Bank and Gaza Strip are Israeli-occupied with
  current status subject to the Israeli-Palestinian Interim Agreement
  - permanent status to be determined through further negotiation

Georgia:
  none

Germany:
  none

Ghana:
  none

Gibraltar:
  source of friction between Spain and the UK

Glorioso Islands:
  claimed by Madagascar

Greece:
  complex maritime, air, and territorial disputes with Turkey
  in Aegean Sea; Cyprus question with Turkey; dispute with The Former
  Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia over its name

Greenland:
  none

Grenada:
  none

Guadeloupe:
  none

Guam:
  none

Guatemala:
  Guatemala periodically asserts claims to territory in
  southern Belize; to deter cross-border squatting, both states in
  2000 agreed to a "line of adjacency" based on the de facto boundary,
  which is not recognized by Guatemala

Guernsey:
  none

Guinea:
  border incursions by Revolutionary United Front combatants
  from Sierra Leone; civil war in that country has engendered a
  massive flow of refugees to southern Guinea and Liberia

Guinea-Bissau:
  none

Guyana:
  all of the area west of the Essequibo (river) claimed by
  Venezuela; Suriname claims area between New (Upper Courantyne) and
  Courantyne/Kutari [Koetari] rivers (all headwaters of the Courantyne)

Haiti:
  claims US-administered Navassa Island

Heard Island and McDonald Islands:
  none

Holy See (Vatican City):
  none

Honduras:
  with respect to the maritime boundary in the Golfo de
  Fonseca, the ICJ referred to the line determined by the 1900
  Honduras-Nicaragua Mixed Boundary Commission and advised that some
  tripartite resolution among El Salvador, Honduras, and Nicaragua
  likely would be required; the maritime boundary dispute with
  Nicaragua in the Caribbean Sea is before the ICJ

Hong Kong:
  none

Howland Island:
  none

Hungary:
  Gabcikovo/Nagymaros Dam dispute with Slovakia is before the
  ICJ

Iceland:
  Rockall continental shelf dispute involving Denmark and the
  UK (Ireland and the UK have signed a boundary agreement in the
  Rockall area); dispute with Denmark over the Faroe Islands fisheries
  median line boundary within 200 NM; disputes with Denmark, the UK,
  and Ireland over the Faroe Islands continental shelf boundary
  outside 200 NM

India:
  boundary with China in dispute; status of Kashmir with
  Pakistan; water-sharing problems with Pakistan over the Indus River
  (Wular Barrage); a portion of the boundary with Bangladesh is
  indefinite; exchange of 151 enclaves along border with Bangladesh
  subject to ratification by Indian parliament; dispute with
  Bangladesh over New Moore/South Talpatty Island

Indian Ocean:
  some maritime disputes (see littoral states)

Indonesia:
  Sipadan and Ligitan Islands in dispute with Malaysia

Iran:
  Iran and Iraq restored diplomatic relations in 1990 but are
  still trying to work out written agreements settling outstanding
  disputes from their eight-year war concerning border demarcation,
  prisoners-of-war, and freedom of navigation and sovereignty over the
  Shatt al Arab waterway; Iran occupies two islands in the Persian
  Gulf claimed by the UAE: Lesser Tunb (called Tunb as Sughra in
  Arabic by UAE and Jazireh-ye Tonb-e Kuchek in Persian by Iran) and
  Greater Tunb (called Tunb al Kubra in Arabic by UAE and Jazireh-ye
  Tonb-e Bozorg in Persian by Iran); Iran jointly administers with the
  UAE an island in the Persian Gulf claimed by the UAE (called Abu
  Musa in Arabic by UAE and Jazireh-ye Abu Musa in Persian by Iran) -
  over which Iran has taken steps to exert unilateral control since
  1992, including access restrictions and a military build-up on the
  island; the UAE has garnered significant diplomatic support in the
  region in protesting these Iranian actions; Caspian Sea boundaries
  are not yet determined among Azerbaijan, Iran, Kazakhstan, Russia,
  and Turkmenistan

Iraq:
  Iran and Iraq restored diplomatic relations in 1990 but are
  still trying to work out written agreements settling outstanding
  disputes from their eight-year war concerning border demarcation,
  prisoners-of-war, and freedom of navigation and sovereignty over the
  Shatt al Arab waterway; in November 1994, Iraq formally accepted the
  UN-demarcated border with Kuwait which had been spelled out in
  Security Council Resolutions 687 (1991), 773 (1993), and 883 (1993);
  this formally ends earlier claims to Kuwait and to Bubiyan and
  Warbah islands although the government continues periodic rhetorical
  challenges; dispute over water development plans by Turkey for the
  Tigris and Euphrates rivers

Ireland:
  Northern Ireland issue with the UK (historic peace
  agreement signed 10 April 1998); disputes with Iceland, Denmark, and
  the UK over the Faroe Islands continental shelf boundary outside 200
  NM

Israel:
  West Bank and Gaza Strip are Israeli-occupied with current
  status subject to the Israeli-Palestinian Interim Agreement -
  permanent status to be determined through further negotiation; Golan
  Heights is Israeli-occupied (Lebanon claims the Shab'a Farms area of
  Golan Heights)

Italy:
  Croatia and Italy made progress toward resolving a bilateral
  issue dating from World War II over property and ethnic minority
  rights

Jamaica:
  none

Jan Mayen:
  none

Japan:
  islands of Etorofu, Kunashiri, and Shikotan, and the Habomai
  group occupied by the Soviet Union in 1945, now administered by
  Russia, claimed by Japan; Liancourt Rocks (Takeshima/Tokdo) disputed
  with South Korea; Senkaku-shoto (Senkaku Islands) claimed by China
  and Taiwan

Jarvis Island:
  none

Jersey:
  none

Johnston Atoll:
  none

Jordan:
  none

Juan de Nova Island:
  claimed by Madagascar

Kazakhstan:
  Caspian Sea boundaries are not yet determined among
  Azerbaijan, Iran, Kazakhstan, Russia, and Turkmenistan

Kenya:
  administrative boundary with Sudan does not coincide with
  international boundary

Kingman Reef:
  none

Kiribati:
  none

Korea, North:
  33-km section of boundary with China in the Paektu-san
  (mountain) area is indefinite; Demarcation Line with South Korea

Korea, South:
  Demarcation Line with North Korea; Liancourt Rocks
  (Takeshima/Tokdo) disputed with Japan

Kuwait:
  in November 1994, Iraq formally accepted the UN-demarcated
  border with Kuwait which had been spelled out in Security Council
  Resolutions 687 (1991), 773 (1993), and 883 (1993); this formally
  ends earlier claims to Kuwait and to Bubiyan and Warbah islands

Kyrgyzstan:
  territorial dispute with Tajikistan on southwestern
  boundary in Isfara Valley area; periodic target of Islamic
  insurgents from Uzbekistan, Tajikistan, and Afghanistan

Laos:
  parts of the border with Thailand are indefinite

Latvia:
  draft treaty delimiting the boundary with Russia has not
  been signed; has not ratified 1998 maritime boundary agreement with
  Lithuania (primary concern is oil exploration rights)

Lebanon:
  Syrian troops in northern, central, and eastern Lebanon
  since October 1976; Lebanese government claims Shab'a Farms area of
  Israeli-occupied Golan Heights as a part of Lebanon from which
  Hizballah conducts cross-border attacks

Lesotho:
  none

Liberia:
  large refugee population from civil war in Sierra Leone

Libya:
  Libya claims about 19,400 sq km in northern Niger and also a
  part of southeastern Algeria

Liechtenstein:
  Liechtenstein's royal family claims restitution for
  1,600 sq km of land in the Czech Republic confiscated in 1918

Lithuania:
  Latvia has not ratified a 1998 maritime boundary
  agreement with Lithuania (primary concern is oil exploration
  rights); 1997 border agreement with Russia not yet ratified by Russia

Luxembourg:
  none

Macau:
  none

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  dispute with Greece over
  its name; February 2001 agreement with Yugoslavia settled alignment
  of boundary, stipulating implementation within two years

Madagascar:
  claims Bassas da India, Europa Island, Glorioso Islands,
  Juan de Nova Island, and Tromelin Island (all administered by France)

Malawi:
  dispute with Tanzania over the boundary in Lake Nyasa (Lake
  Malawi)

Malaysia:
  involved in a complex dispute over the Spratly Islands
  with China, Philippines, Taiwan, Vietnam, and possibly Brunei;
  Philippines have not fully revoked claim to Sabah State; Pulau Batu
  Putih (Pedra Branca Island) disputed with Singapore; Sipadan and
  Ligitan Islands in dispute with Indonesia

Maldives:
  none

Mali:
  none

Malta:
  none

Man, Isle of:
  none

Marshall Islands:
  claims US territory of Wake Island

Martinique:
  none

Mauritania:
  none

Mauritius:
  claims the Chagos Archipelago (UK-administered British
  Indian Ocean Territory); claims French-administered Tromelin Island

Mayotte:
  claimed by Comoros

Mexico:
  none

Micronesia, Federated States of:
  none

Midway Islands:
  none

Moldova:
  separatist Transnistria region, comprising the area between
  the Nistru (Dniester) River and Ukraine, has its own de facto
  government, dominated by Moldovan Slavs

Monaco:
  none

Mongolia:
  none

Montserrat:
  none

Morocco:
  claims and administers Western Sahara, but sovereignty is
  unresolved and the UN is attempting to hold a referendum on the
  issue; the UN-administered cease-fire has been in effect since
  September 1991; Spain controls five places of sovereignty (plazas de
  soberania) on and off the coast of Morocco - the coastal enclaves of
  Ceuta and Melilla which Morocco contests, as well as the islands of
  Penon de Alhucemas, Penon de Velez de la Gomera, and Islas Chafarinas

Mozambique:
  none

Namibia:
  none

Nauru:
  none

Navassa Island:
  claimed by Haiti

Nepal:
  refugee issue over the presence in Nepal of approximately
  98,700 Bhutanese refugees, 90% of whom are in seven United Nations
  Office of the High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) camps

Netherlands:
  none

Netherlands Antilles:
  none

New Caledonia:
  Matthew and Hunter Islands east of New Caledonia
  claimed by France and Vanuatu

New Zealand:
  territorial claim in Antarctica (Ross Dependency)

Nicaragua:
  territorial disputes with Colombia over the Archipelago
  de San Andres y Providencia and Quita Sueno Bank; with respect to
  the maritime boundary question in the Golfo de Fonseca, the ICJ
  referred to the line determined by the 1900 Honduras-Nicaragua Mixed
  Boundary Commission and advised that some tripartite resolution
  among El Salvador, Honduras, and Nicaragua likely would be required;
  maritime boundary dispute with Honduras in the Caribbean Sea is
  before the ICJ; legal dispute over navigational rights of San Juan
  River on border with Costa Rica

Niger:
  Libya claims about 19,400 sq km in northern Niger;
  delimitation of international boundaries in the vicinity of Lake
  Chad, the lack of which led to border incidents in the past, has
  been completed and awaits ratification by Cameroon, Chad, Niger, and
  Nigeria

Nigeria:
  delimitation of international boundaries in the vicinity of
  Lake Chad, the lack of which led to border incidents in the past,
  has been completed and awaits ratification by Cameroon, Chad, Niger,
  and Nigeria; dispute with Cameroon over land and maritime boundaries
  around the Bakasi Peninsula is currently before the ICJ; tripartite
  maritime boundary and economic zone dispute with Equatorial Guinea
  and Cameroon is currently before the ICJ

Niue:
  none

Norfolk Island:
  none

Northern Mariana Islands:
  none

Norway:
  territorial claim in Antarctica (Queen Maud Land); Svalbard
  is the focus of a maritime boundary dispute between Norway and Russia

Oman:
  boundary with the UAE has not been bilaterally defined;
  northern section in the Musandam Peninsula is an administrative
  boundary

Pacific Ocean:
  some maritime disputes (see littoral states)

Pakistan:
  status of Kashmir with India; water-sharing problems with
  India over the Indus River (Wular Barrage)

Palau:
  none

Palmyra Atoll:
  none

Panama:
  none

Papua New Guinea:
  none

Paracel Islands:
  occupied by China, but claimed by Taiwan and Vietnam

Peru:
  none

Philippines:
  involved in a complex dispute over the Spratly Islands
  with China, Malaysia, Taiwan, Vietnam, and possibly Brunei; claim to
  Malaysia's Sabah State has not been fully revoked

Pitcairn Islands:
  none

Poland:
  none

Puerto Rico:
  none

Qatar:
  in March of 2001, the International Court of Justice (ICJ)
  awarded the Hawar Islands to Bahrain and adjusted its maritime
  boundary with Qatar; a final border resolution was agreed to with
  Saudi Arabia in March of 2001

Reunion:
  none

Romania:
  none

Russia:
  dispute over at least two small sections of the boundary
  with China remains to be settled, despite 1997 boundary agreement;
  islands of Etorofu, Kunashiri, and Shikotan and the Habomai group
  occupied by the Soviet Union in 1945, now administered by Russia,
  claimed by Japan; Caspian Sea boundaries are not yet determined
  among Azerbaijan, Iran, Kazakhstan, Russia, and Turkmenistan;
  Estonian and Russian negotiators reached a technical border
  agreement in December 1996, which has not been signed or ratified by
  Russia as of February 2001; draft treaty delimiting the boundary
  with Latvia has not been signed; 1997 border agreement with
  Lithuania not yet ratified; has made no territorial claim in
  Antarctica (but has reserved the right to do so) and does not
  recognize the claims of any other nation; Svalbard is the focus of a
  maritime boundary dispute between Norway and Russia

Rwanda:
  Rwandan military forces are supporting the rebel forces in
  the civil war in the Democratic Republic of the Congo

Saint Helena:
  none

Saint Kitts and Nevis:
  none

Saint Lucia:
  none

Saint Pierre and Miquelon:
  none

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:
  none

Samoa:
  none

San Marino:
  none

Sao Tome and Principe:
  none

Saudi Arabia:
  a final border resolution was agreed to with Qatar in
  March of 2001; location and status of boundary with UAE is not
  final, de facto boundary reflects a 1974 agreement; a June 2000
  treaty delimited the boundary with Yemen, but final demarcation
  requires adjustments based on tribal considerations

Senegal:
  none

Seychelles:
  claims the Chagos Archipelago (UK-administered British
  Indian Ocean Territory)

Sierra Leone:
  civil war has engendered massive refugee movements
  into neighboring Guinea and Liberia

Singapore:
  Pedra Branca Island (Pulau Batu Putih) disputed with
  Malaysia

Slovakia:
  Gabcikovo/Nagymaros Dam dispute with Hungary is before the
  ICJ

Slovenia:
  progress with Croatia on discussions of adjustments to
  land boundary, but problems remain in defining maritime boundary in
  Gulf of Piran; Austria has minor dispute with Slovenia over nuclear
  power plants and post-World War II treatment of German-speaking
  minorities

Solomon Islands:
  none

Somalia:
  most of the southern half of the boundary with Ethiopia is
  a Provisional Administrative Line; territorial dispute with Ethiopia
  over the Ogaden

South Africa:
  Swaziland has asked South Africa to open negotiations
  on reincorporating some nearby South African territories that are
  populated by ethnic Swazis or that were long ago part of the Swazi
  Kingdom

South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands:
  claimed by Argentina

Southern Ocean:
  Antarctic Treaty defers claims (see Antarctic Treaty
  Summary in the Antarctica entry); sections (some overlapping)
  claimed by Argentina, Australia, Chile, France, New Zealand, Norway,
  and UK; the US and most other nations do not recognize the maritime
  claims of other nations and have made no claims themselves (the US
  and Russia have reserved the right to do so); no formal claims have
  been made in the sector between 90 degrees west and 150 degrees west

Spain:
  Gibraltar issue with UK; Spain controls five places of
  sovereignty (plazas de soberania) on and off the coast of Morocco -
  the coastal enclaves of Ceuta and Melilla, which Morocco contests,
  as well as the islands of Penon de Alhucemas, Penon de Velez de la
  Gomera, and Islas Chafarinas

Spratly Islands:
  all of the Spratly Islands are claimed by China,
  Taiwan, and Vietnam; parts of them are claimed by Malaysia and the
  Philippines; in 1984, Brunei established an exclusive fishing zone
  that encompasses Louisa Reef in the southern Spratly Islands, but
  has not publicly claimed the island; in 2000, China joined ASEAN
  discussions towards creating a South China Sea "code of conduct" - a
  non-legally binding confidence building measure

Sri Lanka:
  none

Sudan:
  administrative boundary with Kenya does not coincide with
  international boundary; Egypt asserts its claim to the "Hala'ib
  Triangle," a barren area of 20,580 sq km under partial Sudanese
  administration that is defined by an administrative boundary which
  supersedes the treaty boundary of 1899

Suriname:
  area disputed by French Guiana between Riviere Litani and
  Riviere Marouini (both headwaters of the Lawa); area disputed by
  Guyana between New (Upper Courantyne) and Courantyne/Koetari
  [Kutari] rivers (all headwaters of the Courantyne)

Svalbard:
  focus of a maritime boundary dispute between Norway and
  Russia

Swaziland:
  Swaziland has asked South Africa to open negotiations on
  reincorporating some nearby South African territories that are
  populated by ethnic Swazis or that were long ago part of the Swazi
  Kingdom

Sweden:
  none

Switzerland:
  none

Syria:
  Golan Heights is Israeli occupied; dispute with upstream
  riparian Turkey over Turkish water development plans for the Tigris
  and Euphrates rivers; Syrian troops in northern, central, and
  eastern Lebanon since October 1976

Tajikistan:
  portions of Tajikistan's northern and western border
  with Uzbekistan and its eastern border with China have not been
  officially demarcated; territorial dispute with Kyrgyzstan on
  northern boundary in Isfara Valley area

Tanzania:
  dispute with Malawi over the boundary in Lake Nyasa (Lake
  Malawi); a resurvey of the latitudinal boundary with Uganda in 2000
  revealed a 300-meter discrepancy that both sides are currently
  adjudicating

Thailand:
  parts of the border with Laos are indefinite; parts of
  border with Cambodia are indefinite; sporadic border hostilities
  with Burma over border alignment and ethnic Shan rebels operating in
  cross-border region

Togo:
  none

Tokelau:
  none

Tonga:
  none

Trinidad and Tobago:
  none

Tromelin Island:
  claimed by Madagascar and Mauritius

Tunisia:
  none

Turkey:
  complex maritime, air, and territorial disputes with Greece
  in Aegean Sea; Cyprus question with Greece; dispute with downstream
  riparian states (Syria and Iraq) over water development plans for
  the Tigris and Euphrates rivers; traditional demands regarding
  former Armenian lands in Turkey have subsided

Turkmenistan:
  Caspian Sea boundaries are not yet determined among
  Azerbaijan, Iran, Kazakhstan, Russia, and Turkmenistan

Turks and Caicos Islands:
  none

Tuvalu:
  none

Uganda:
  the Ugandan military is deployed to the Democratic Republic
  of Congo in support of rebel forces in that country's civil war; a
  resurvey of the latitudinal boundary with Tanzania in 2000 revealed
  a 300-meter discrepancy that both sides are currently adjudicating

Ukraine:
  has made no territorial claim in Antarctica (but has
  reserved the right to do so) and does not recognize the claims of
  any other nation

United Arab Emirates:
  location and status of boundary with Saudi
  Arabia is not final, de facto boundary reflects 1974 agreement;
  boundary with Oman has not been bilaterally defined; northern
  section in the Musandam Peninsula is an administrative boundary;
  claims two islands in the Persian Gulf occupied by Iran: Lesser Tunb
  (called Tunb as Sughra in Arabic by UAE and Jazireh-ye Tonb-e Kuchek
  in Persian by Iran) and Greater Tunb (called Tunb al Kubra in Arabic
  by UAE and Jazireh-ye Tonb-e Bozorg in Persian by Iran); claims
  island in the Persian Gulf jointly administered with Iran (called
  Abu Musa in Arabic by UAE and Jazireh-ye Abu Musa in Persian by
  Iran) - over which Iran has taken steps to exert unilateral control
  since 1992, including access restrictions and a military build-up on
  the island; the UAE has garnered significant diplomatic support in
  the region in protesting these Iranian actions

United Kingdom:
  Northern Ireland issue with Ireland (historic peace
  agreement signed 10 April 1998); Gibraltar issue with Spain;
  Argentina claims Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas); Argentina claims
  South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands; Mauritius and the
  Seychelles claim Chagos Archipelago (UK-administered British Indian
  Ocean Territory); Rockall continental shelf dispute involving
  Denmark and Iceland; territorial claim in Antarctica (British
  Antarctic Territory) overlaps Argentine claim and partially overlaps
  Chilean claim; disputes with Iceland, Denmark, and Ireland over the
  Faroe Islands continental shelf boundary outside 200 NM

United States:
  maritime boundary disputes with Canada (Dixon
  Entrance, Beaufort Sea, Strait of Juan de Fuca, Machias Seal
  Island); US Naval Base at Guantanamo Bay is leased from Cuba and
  only mutual agreement or US abandonment of the area can terminate
  the lease; Haiti claims Navassa Island; US has made no territorial
  claim in Antarctica (but has reserved the right to do so) and does
  not recognize the claims of any other nation; Marshall Islands
  claims Wake Island

Uruguay:
  none

Uzbekistan:
  occasional target of Islamic insurgents based in
  Tajikistan and Afghanistan

Vanuatu:
  claims Matthew and Hunter Islands east of New Caledonia

Venezuela:
  claims all of Guyana west of the Essequibo (river);
  maritime boundary dispute with Colombia in the Gulf of Venezuela

Vietnam:
  maritime boundary with Cambodia not defined; involved in a
  complex dispute over the Spratly Islands with China, Malaysia,
  Philippines, Taiwan, and possibly Brunei; maritime boundary
  agreement with China in the Gulf of Tonkin awaits ratification;
  Paracel Islands occupied by China but claimed by Vietnam and Taiwan;
  portions of boundary with Cambodia are in dispute; agreement on land
  border with China was signed in December 1999, but details of
  alignment have not yet been made public

Virgin Islands:
  none

Wake Island:
  claimed by Marshall Islands

Wallis and Futuna:
  none

West Bank:
  West Bank and Gaza Strip are Israeli-occupied with
  current status subject to the Israeli-Palestinian Interim Agreement
  - permanent status to be determined through further negotiation

Western Sahara:
  claimed and administered by Morocco, but sovereignty
  is unresolved and the UN is attempting to hold a referendum on the
  issue; the UN-administered cease-fire has been in effect since
  September 1991

Yemen:
  a June 2000 treaty delimited the boundary with Saudi Arabia,
  but final demarcation requires adjustments based on tribal
  considerations

Yugoslavia:
  Albanian majority in Kosovo seeks independence from
  Yugoslavia; Croatia and Yugoslavia are negotiating the status of the
  strategically important Prevlaka Peninsula, which is currently under
  a UN military observer mission (UNMOP); the February 2001 agreement
  with the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia settled alignment of
  boundary, stipulating implementation within two years

Taiwan:
  involved in complex dispute over the Spratly Islands with
  China, Malaysia, Philippines, Vietnam, and possibly Brunei; Paracel
  Islands occupied by China, but claimed by Vietnam and Taiwan; claims
  Japanese-administered Senkaku-shoto (Senkaku Islands/Diaoyu Tai), as
  does China

======================================================================

@Economic aid - donor



Australia:
  ODA, $1.43 billion (FY97/98)

Austria:
  ODA, $472 million (1999)

Belgium:
  ODA, $764 million (1997)

Canada:
  ODA, $1.3 billion (1999)

Denmark:
  ODA, $1.63 billion (1999)

Finland:
  ODA, $379 million (1997)

France:
  ODA, $6.3 billion (1997)

Germany:
  ODA, $5.6 billion (1998)

Iceland:
  $NA

Ireland:
  ODA, $245 million (2000)

Italy:
  ODA, $1.3 billion (1997)

Japan:
  ODA, $9.1 billion (1999)

Luxembourg:
  ODA, $160 million (1999)

Netherlands:
  ODA, $3.5 billion (2000 est.)

New Zealand:
  ODA, $123 million (1995)

Norway:
  ODA, $1.4 billion (1998)

Portugal:
  ODA, $271 million (1995)

Saudi Arabia:
  pledged $100 million in 1993 to fund reconstruction of
  Lebanon; since 1993, Saudi Arabia has committed $208 million for
  assistance to the Palestinians

Spain:
  ODA, $1.3 billion (1995)

Sweden:
  ODA, $1.7 billion (1997)

Switzerland:
  ODA, $1.1 billion (1995)

United Kingdom:
  ODA, $3.4 billion (1997)

United States:
  ODA, $6.9 billion (1997)

======================================================================

@Economic aid - recipient



Afghanistan:
  US provided about $70 million in humanitarian
  assistance in 1997; US continues to contribute to multilateral
  assistance through the UN programs of food aid, immunization, land
  mine removal, and a wide range of aid to refugees and displaced
  persons

Albania:
  $NA; aid for energy from China, Germany, Norway (2000)

Algeria:
  $100 million (1999 est.)

American Samoa:
  important financial support from the US, more than
  $40 million in 1994

Andorra:
  none

Angola:
  $493.1 million (1995)

Anguilla:
  $3.5 million (1995)

Antigua and Barbuda:
  $2.3 million (1995)

Argentina:
  IMF offer of $13.7 billion (January 2001)

Armenia:
  $245.5 million (1995)

Aruba:
  $26 million (1995); note - the Netherlands provided a $127
  million aid package to Aruba and Suriname in 1996

Azerbaijan:
  ODA, $113 million (1996)

Bahamas, The:
  $9.8 million (1995)

Bahrain:
  $48.4 million (1995)

Bangladesh:
  $1.575 billion (2000 est.)

Barbados:
  $9.1 million (1995)

Belarus:
  $194.3 million (1995)

Belize:
  $NA

Benin:
  $274.6 million (1997)

Bermuda:
  $27.9 million (1995)

Bhutan:
  $73.8 million (1995)

Bolivia:
  $588 million (1997)

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  $1 billion (1999 est.)

Botswana:
  $73 million (1995)

Brazil:
  NA

British Virgin Islands:
  $2.6 million (1995)

Brunei:
  $4.3 million (1995)

Bulgaria:
  $1 billion (1999 est.)

Burkina Faso:
  $484.1 million (1995)

Burma:
  $99 million (FY98/99)

Burundi:
  $1.344 billion (1999 est.)

Cambodia:
  $548 million pledged in grants and concessional loans for
  2001 by international donors

Cameroon:
  on 23 January 2001, the Paris Club agreed to reduce
  Cameroon's debt of $1.3 billion by $900 million; total debt relief
  now amounts to $1.26 billion

Cape Verde:
  $111.3 million (1995)

Cayman Islands:
  $NA

Central African Republic:
  $172.2 million (1995); note - traditional
  budget subsidies from France

Chad:
  $238.3 million (1995); note - $125 million committed by Taiwan
  (August 1997); $30 million committed by African Development Bank

Chile:
  ODA, $40 million (2001 est.)

China:
  $NA

Christmas Island:
  $NA

Cocos (Keeling) Islands:
  $NA

Colombia:
  $40.7 million (1995)

Comoros:
  $28.1 million (1997)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  $195.3 million (1995)

Congo, Republic of the:
  $159.1 million (1995)

Cook Islands:
  $13.1 million (1995); note - New Zealand continues to
  furnish the greater part

Cote d'Ivoire:
  ODA, $1 billion (1996 est.)

Croatia:
  $NA

Cuba:
  $68.2 million (1997 est.)

Cyprus:
  Greek Cypriot area - $17 million (1998); Turkish Cypriot
  area - $700 million from Turkey in grants and loans (1990-97) that
  are usually forgiven

Czech Republic:
  $NA

Djibouti:
  $106.3 million (1995)

Dominica:
  $24.4 million (1995)

Dominican Republic:
  $239.6 million (1995)

Ecuador:
  $695.7 million (1995)

Egypt:
  ODA, $2.25 billion (1999)

El Salvador:
  total $252 million; $57 million from US (1999 est.)

Equatorial Guinea:
  $33.8 million (1995)

Eritrea:
  $77 million (1999)

Estonia:
  $137.3 million (1995)

Ethiopia:
  $367 million (FY95/96)

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas):
  $1.7 million (1995)

Faroe Islands:
  $135 million (annual subsidy from Denmark) (1999)

Fiji:
  $40.3 million (1995)

French Guiana:
  $NA

French Polynesia:
  $367 million (1997)

Gabon:
  $331 million (1995)

Gambia, The:
  $45.4 million (1995)

Gaza Strip:
  $121 million disbursed (2000) (includes West Bank)

Georgia:
  $212.7 million (1995)

Ghana:
  $477.3 million (1995)

Gibraltar:
  $NA

Greece:
  $5.4 billion from EU (1997 est.)

Greenland:
  $380 million subsidy from Denmark (1999)

Grenada:
  $8.3 million (1995)

Guadeloupe:
  $NA; note - substantial annual French subsidies

Guam:
  Guam receives large transfer payments from the US Federal
  Treasury ($143 million in 1997) into which Guamanians pay no income
  or excise taxes; under the provisions of a special law of Congress,
  the Guam Treasury, rather than the US Treasury, receives federal
  income taxes paid by military and civilian Federal employees
  stationed in Guam

Guatemala:
  $212 million (1995)

Guernsey:
  $NA

Guinea:
  $359.2 million (1998)

Guinea-Bissau:
  $115.4 million (1995)

Guyana:
  $84 million (1995), Heavily Indebted Poor Country Initiative
  (HIPC) $253 million (1997)

Haiti:
  $730.6 million (1995)

Holy See (Vatican City):
  none

Honduras:
  $557.8 million (1999)

Hungary:
  $122.7 million (1995)

India:
  $2.9 billion (FY98/99)

Indonesia:
  $43 billion from IMF program and other official external
  financing (1997-2000)

Iran:
  $116.5 million (1995)

Iraq:
  $327.5 million (1995)

Israel:
  $1.1 billion from the US (1999)

Jamaica:
  $102.7 million (1995)

Jersey:
  none

Jordan:
  ODA, $850 million (1996 est.)

Kazakhstan:
  $409.6 million (1995)

Kenya:
  $457 million (1997)

Kiribati:
  $15.5 million (1995), largely from UK and Japan

Korea, North:
  $NA; note - an estimated $200 million to $300 million
  in humanitarian aid from US, South Korea, Japan, and EU in 1997 plus
  much additional aid from the UN and non-governmental organizations;
  substantial continuing humanitarian aid, 1998-2000

Korea, South:
  $NA

Kuwait:
  $27.6 million (1995)

Kyrgyzstan:
  $329.4 million (1995)

Laos:
  $345 million (1999 est.)

Latvia:
  $96.2 million (1995)

Lebanon:
  $3.5 billion (pledges 1997-2001)

Lesotho:
  $123.7 million (1995)

Liberia:
  $200 million pledged (1998)

Libya:
  $8.4 million (1995)

Liechtenstein:
  none

Lithuania:
  $228.5 million (1995)

Macau:
  $NA

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  $100 million from the EU
  (2000)

Madagascar:
  $838 million (1997)

Malawi:
  $427 million (1999)

Maldives:
  $NA

Mali:
  $596.4 million (1995)

Malta:
  $NA

Man, Isle of:
  $NA

Marshall Islands:
  approximately $65 million annually from the US

Martinique:
  $NA; note - substantial annual aid from France

Mauritania:
  $300 million (1998)

Mauritius:
  $42 million (1997)

Mayotte:
  $107.7 million (1995); note - extensive French financial
  assistance

Mexico:
  $1.166 billion (1995)

Micronesia, Federated States of:
  under terms of the Compact of Free
  Association, the US will provide $1.3 billion in grant aid during
  the period 1986-2001

Moldova:
  $100.8 million (1995); note - $547 million from the IMF and
  World Bank (1992-99)

Monaco:
  $NA

Mongolia:
  $200 million (1998 est.)

Montserrat:
  $9.8 million (1995); note - about $100 million (1996-98)
  in reconstruction aid from the UK; Country Policy Plan (1999) is a
  three-year program for spending $122.8 million in British budgetary
  assistance

Morocco:
  $565.6 million (1995)

Mozambique:
  $1.04 billion (1998)

Namibia:
  $127 million (1998)

Nauru:
  $2.25 million from Australia (FY96/97 est.)

Nepal:
  $411 million (FY97/98)

Netherlands Antilles:
  IMF provided $61 million in 2000, and the
  Netherlands continued its support with $40 million

New Caledonia:
  $880 million annual subsidy from France

Nicaragua:
  NA

Niger:
  $341 million (1997)

  note:  the IMF approved a $73 million poverty reduction and growth
  facility for Niger in 2000 and announced $115 million in debt relief
  under the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) initiative

Nigeria:
  ODA $250 million (1998)

Niue:
  $8.3 million (1995)

Norfolk Island:
  $NA

Northern Mariana Islands:
  extensive funding from US

Oman:
  $76.4 million (1995)

Pakistan:
  $2 billion (FY99/00)

Palau:
  $155.8 million (1995); note - the Compact of Free Association
  with the US, entered into after the end of the UN trusteeship on 1
  October 1994, will provide Palau with up to $700 million in US aid
  over 15 years in return for furnishing military facilities

Panama:
  $197.1 million (1995)

Papua New Guinea:
  $400 million (1999 est.)

Paraguay:
  $NA

Peru:
  $895.1 million (1995)

Philippines:
  ODA, $1.1 billion (1998)

Pitcairn Islands:
  $NA

Poland:
  $NA

Puerto Rico:
  $NA

Qatar:
  $NA

Reunion:
  $NA; note - substantial annual subsidies from France

Russia:
  $8.523 billion (1995)

Rwanda:
  $591.5 million (1997); note - in summer 1998, Rwanda
  presented its policy objectives and development priorities to donor
  governments resulting in multiyear pledges in the amount of $250
  million

Saint Helena:
  $12.6 million (1995); note - $5.3 million from UK
  (1997)

Saint Kitts and Nevis:
  $5.5 million (1995)

Saint Lucia:
  $51.8 million (1995)

Saint Pierre and Miquelon:
  approximately $65 million in annual
  grants from France

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:
  $47.5 million (1995); note - EU
  $34.5 million (1998)

Samoa:
  $42.9 million (1995)

San Marino:
  $NA

Sao Tome and Principe:
  $200 million in December 2000 under the HIPC
  program

Senegal:
  $647.5 million (1995)

Seychelles:
  $16.4 million (1995)

Sierra Leone:
  $203.7 million (1995)

Singapore:
  $NA

Slovakia:
  $421.9 million (1995)

Slovenia:
  ODA, $5 million (1993)

Solomon Islands:
  $47 million (1999 est.), mainly from Japan,
  Australia, China, and NZ

Somalia:
  $191.5 million (1995)

South Africa:
  $676.3 million

Sri Lanka:
  $577 million (1998)

Sudan:
  $187 million (1997)

Suriname:
  Netherlands provided $37 million for project and program
  assistance, European Development Fund $4 million, Belgium $2 million
  (1998)

Svalbard:
  $8.2 million from Norway (1998)

Swaziland:
  $55 million (1995)

Syria:
  $199 million (1997 est.)

Tajikistan:
  $64.7 million (1995)

Tanzania:
  $963 million (1997)

Thailand:
  $131.5 million (1998 est.)

Togo:
  $201.1 million (1995)

Tokelau:
  $3.8 million (1995)

Tonga:
  $38.8 million (1995)

Trinidad and Tobago:
  $121.4 million (1995)

Tunisia:
  $933.2 million (1995); note - ODA, $90 million (1998 est.)

Turkey:
  ODA, $195 million (1993)

Turkmenistan:
  $27.2 million (1995)

Turks and Caicos Islands:
  $4.1 million (1997)

Tuvalu:
  $13 million (1999 est.); note - major donors are Japan and
  Australia

Uganda:
  $1.4 billion (2000)

Ukraine:
  $637.7 million (1995); IMF Extended Funds Facility $2.2
  billion (1998)

United Arab Emirates:
  $NA

Uruguay:
  $NA

Uzbekistan:
  $276.6 million (1995)

Vanuatu:
  $45.8 million (1995)

Venezuela:
  $35 million with more assistance likely as a result of
  flooding (1999)

Vietnam:
  $2.1 billion in credits and grants pledged by international
  donors for 2000

Virgin Islands:
  $NA

Wallis and Futuna:
  assistance from France

West Bank:
  $121 million disbursed (includes Gaza Strip) (2000)

Western Sahara:
  $NA

World:
  traditional worldwide foreign aid $50 billion (1997 est.)

Yemen:
  $176.1 million (1995)

Yugoslavia:
  $NA

Zambia:
  $1.99 billion (1995)

Zimbabwe:
  $200 million (2000 est.)

======================================================================

@Economy - overview



Afghanistan:
  Afghanistan is an extremely poor, landlocked country,
  highly dependent on farming and livestock raising (sheep and goats).
  Economic considerations have played second fiddle to political and
  military upheavals during two decades of war, including the nearly
  10-year Soviet military occupation (which ended 15 February 1989).
  During that conflict one-third of the population fled the country,
  with Pakistan and Iran sheltering a combined peak of more than 6
  million refugees. In early 2000, 2 million Afghan refugees remained
  in Pakistan and about 1.4 million in Iran. Gross domestic product
  has fallen substantially over the past 20 years because of the loss
  of labor and capital and the disruption of trade and transport;
  severe drought added to the nation's difficulties in 1998-2000. The
  majority of the population continues to suffer from insufficient
  food, clothing, housing, and medical care. Inflation remains a
  serious problem throughout the country. International aid can deal
  with only a fraction of the humanitarian problem, let alone promote
  economic development. In 1999-2000, internal civil strife continued,
  hampering both domestic economic policies and international aid
  efforts. Numerical data are likely to be either unavailable or
  unreliable. Afghanistan was by far the largest producer of opium
  poppies in 2000, and narcotics trafficking is a major source of
  revenue.

Albania:
  Poor by European standards, Albania is making the difficult
  transition to a more open-market economy. The economy rebounded in
  1993-95 after a severe depression accompanying the end of the
  previous centrally planned system in 1990 and 1991. However, a
  weakening of government resolve to maintain stabilization policies
  in the election year of 1996 contributed to renewal of inflationary
  pressures, spurred by the budget deficit which exceeded 12% of GDP.
  The collapse of financial pyramid schemes in early 1997 - which had
  attracted deposits from a substantial portion of Albania's
  population - triggered severe social unrest which led to more than
  1,500 deaths, widespread destruction of property, and a 7% drop in
  GDP. The government has taken measures to curb violent crime and to
  revive economic activity and trade. The economy is bolstered by
  remittances from some 20% of the labor force that works abroad,
  mostly in Greece and Italy. These remittances supplement GDP and
  help offset the large foreign trade deficit. Most agricultural land
  was privatized in 1992, substantially improving peasant incomes. In
  1998, Albania recovered the 7% drop in GDP of 1997 and pushed ahead
  by 8% in 1999 and by 7.5% in 2000. International aid helped defray
  the high costs of receiving and returning refugees from the Kosovo
  conflict. Privatization scored some successes in 2000, but other
  reforms lagged.

Algeria:
  The hydrocarbons sector is the backbone of the economy,
  accounting for roughly 60% of budget revenues, 30% of GDP, and over
  95% of export earnings. Algeria has the fifth-largest reserves of
  natural gas in the world and is the second largest gas exporter; it
  ranks fourteenth for oil reserves. Algiers' efforts to reform one of
  the most centrally planned economies in the Arab world stalled in
  1992 as the country became embroiled in political turmoil. Algeria's
  financial and economic indicators improved during the mid-1990s, in
  part because of policy reforms supported by the IMF and debt
  rescheduling from the Paris Club. Algeria's finances in 2000
  benefited from the spike in oil prices and the government's tight
  fiscal policy, leading to a large increase in the trade surplus, the
  near tripling of foreign exchange reserves, and reduction in foreign
  debt. The government continues efforts to diversify the economy by
  attracting foreign and domestic investment outside the energy
  sector, but has had little success in reducing high unemployment and
  improving living standards.

American Samoa:
  This is a traditional Polynesian economy in which
  more than 90% of the land is communally owned. Economic activity is
  strongly linked to the US, with which American Samoa conducts the
  great bulk of its foreign trade. Tuna fishing and tuna processing
  plants are the backbone of the private sector, with canned tuna the
  primary export. Transfers from the US Government add substantially
  to American Samoa's economic well-being. Attempts by the government
  to develop a larger and broader economy are restrained by Samoa's
  remote location, its limited transportation, and its devastating
  hurricanes. Tourism, a developing sector, has been held back by the
  recurring financial difficulties in East Asia.

Andorra:
  Tourism, the mainstay of Andorra's tiny, well-to-do
  economy, accounts for roughly 80% of GDP. An estimated 9 million
  tourists visit annually, attracted by Andorra's duty-free status and
  by its summer and winter resorts. Andorra's comparative advantage
  has recently eroded as the economies of neighboring France and Spain
  have been opened up, providing broader availability of goods and
  lower tariffs. The banking sector, with its "tax haven" status, also
  contributes substantially to the economy. Agricultural production is
  limited by a scarcity of arable land, and most food has to be
  imported. The principal livestock activity is sheep raising.
  Manufacturing output consists mainly of cigarettes, cigars, and
  furniture. Andorra is a member of the EU Customs Union and is
  treated as an EU member for trade in manufactured goods (no tariffs)
  and as a non-EU member for agricultural products.

Angola:
  Angola is an economy in disarray because of a quarter
  century of nearly continuous warfare. Despite its abundant natural
  resources, output per capita is among the world's lowest.
  Subsistence agriculture provides the main livelihood for 85% of the
  population. Oil production and the supporting activities are vital
  to the economy, contributing about 45% to GDP and 90% of exports.
  Violence continues, millions of land mines remain, and many farmers
  are reluctant to return to their fields. As a result, much of the
  country's food must still be imported. To fully take advantage of
  its rich resources - gold, diamonds, extensive forests, Atlantic
  fisheries, and large oil deposits - Angola will need to end its
  conflict and continue reforming government policies. Despite the
  increase in the pace of civil warfare in late 1998, the economy grew
  by an estimated 5% in 2000. The government introduced new currency
  denominations in 1999, including 1 and 5 kwanza notes. Internal
  strife discourages investment outside of the petroleum sector, which
  is producing roughly 800,000 barrels of oil per day. Angola has
  entered into a Staff Monitored Program (SMP) with the IMF. Continued
  growth depends on sharp cuts in inflation, further economic reform,
  and a lessening of fighting.

Anguilla:
  Anguilla has few natural resources, and the economy
  depends heavily on luxury tourism, offshore banking, lobster
  fishing, and remittances from emigrants. The economy, and especially
  the tourism sector, suffered a setback in late 1995 due to the
  effects of Hurricane Luis in September but recovered in 1996.
  Increased activity in the tourism industry, which has spurred the
  growth of the construction sector, has contributed to economic
  growth. Anguillan officials have put substantial effort into
  developing the offshore financial sector. A comprehensive package of
  financial services legislation was enacted in late 1994. In the
  medium term, prospects for the economy will depend on the tourism
  sector and, therefore, on continuing income growth in the
  industrialized nations as well as favorable weather conditions.

Antarctica:
  Fishing off the coast and tourism, both based abroad,
  account for the limited economic activity. Antarctic fisheries in
  1998-99 (1 July-30 June) reported landing 119,898 metric tons.
  Unregulated fishing landed five to six times more than the regulated
  fishery, and allegedly illegal fishing in antarctic waters in 1998
  resulted in the seizure (by France and Australia) of at least eight
  fishing ships. Companies interested in commercial fishing activities
  in Antarctica have put forward proposals. The Convention on the
  Conservation of Antarctic Marine Living Resources determines the
  recommended catch limits for marine species. A total of 13,193
  tourists visited in the 1999-2000 summer, up from the 10,013 who
  visited the previous year. Nearly all of them were passengers on 24
  commercial (nongovernmental) ships and several yachts that made 143
  trips during the summer. Most tourist trips lasted approximately two
  weeks.

Antigua and Barbuda:
  Tourism continues to be the dominant activity
  in the economy accounting directly or indirectly for more than half
  of GDP. The budding offshore financial sector has been seriously
  hurt by financial sanctions imposed by the US and UK as a result of
  the loosening of its money-laundering controls. The government has
  made efforts to comply with international demands in order to get
  the sanctions lifted. Antigua and Barbuda was listed as a tax haven
  by the OECD in 2000. The dual island nation's agricultural
  production is mainly directed to the domestic market; the sector is
  constrained by the limited water supply and labor shortages that
  reflect the pull of higher wages in tourism and construction.
  Manufacturing comprises enclave-type assembly for export with major
  products being bedding, handicrafts, and electronic components.
  Prospects for economic growth in the medium term will continue to
  depend on income growth in the industrialized world, especially in
  the US, which accounts for about one-third of all tourist arrivals.

Arctic Ocean:
  Economic activity is limited to the exploitation of
  natural resources, including petroleum, natural gas, fish, and seals.

Argentina:
  Argentina benefits from rich natural resources, a highly
  literate population, an export-oriented agricultural sector, and a
  diversified industrial base. However, when President Carlos MENEM
  took office in 1989, the country had piled up huge external debts,
  inflation had reached 200% per month, and output was plummeting. To
  combat the economic crisis, the government embarked on a path of
  trade liberalization, deregulation, and privatization. In 1991, it
  implemented radical monetary reforms which pegged the peso to the US
  dollar and limited the growth in the monetary base by law to the
  growth in reserves. Inflation fell sharply in subsequent years. In
  1995, the Mexican peso crisis produced capital flight, the loss of
  banking system deposits, and a severe, but short-lived, recession; a
  series of reforms to bolster the domestic banking system followed.
  Real GDP growth recovered strongly, reaching 8% in 1997. In 1998,
  international financial turmoil caused by Russia's problems and
  increasing investor anxiety over Brazil produced the highest
  domestic interest rates in more than three years, halving the growth
  rate of the economy. Conditions worsened in 1999 with GDP falling by
  3%. President Fernando DE LA RUA, who took office in December 1999,
  sponsored tax increases and spending cuts to reduce the deficit,
  which had ballooned to 2.5% of GDP in 1999. Growth in 2000 was a
  disappointing 0.8%, as both domestic and foreign investors remained
  skeptical of the government's ability to pay debts and maintain its
  fixed exchange rate with the US dollar. One bright spot at the start
  of 2001 was the IMF's offer of $13.7 billion in support.

Armenia:
  Under the old Soviet central planning system, Armenia had
  developed a modern industrial sector, supplying machine tools,
  textiles, and other manufactured goods to sister republics in
  exchange for raw materials and energy. Since the implosion of the
  USSR in December 1991, Armenia has switched to small-scale
  agriculture away from the large agroindustrial complexes of the
  Soviet era. The agricultural sector has long-term needs for more
  investment and updated technology. The privatization of industry has
  been at a slower pace, but has been given renewed emphasis by the
  current administration. Armenia is a food importer, and its mineral
  deposits (gold, bauxite) are small. The ongoing conflict with
  Azerbaijan over the ethnic Armenian-dominated region of
  Nagorno-Karabakh and the breakup of the centrally directed economic
  system of the former Soviet Union contributed to a severe economic
  decline in the early 1990s. By 1994, however, the Armenian
  Government had launched an ambitious IMF-sponsored economic program
  that has resulted in positive growth rates in 1995-2000. Armenia
  also managed to slash inflation and to privatize most small- and
  medium-sized enterprises. The chronic energy shortages Armenia
  suffered in recent years have been largely offset by the energy
  supplied by one of its nuclear power plants at Metsamor. Armenia's
  severe trade imbalance, importing three times its exports, has been
  offset somewhat by international aid, domestic restructuring of the
  economy, and foreign direct investment.

Aruba:
  Tourism is the mainstay of the Aruban economy, although
  offshore banking and oil refining and storage are also important.
  The rapid growth of the tourism sector over the last decade has
  resulted in a substantial expansion of other activities.
  Construction has boomed, with hotel capacity five times the 1985
  level. In addition, the reopening of the country's oil refinery in
  1993, a major source of employment and foreign exchange earnings,
  has further spurred growth. Aruba's small labor force and less than
  1% unemployment rate have led to a large number of unfilled job
  vacancies, despite sharp rises in wage rates in recent years.

Ashmore and Cartier Islands:
  no economic activity

Atlantic Ocean:
  The Atlantic Ocean provides some of the world's most
  heavily trafficked sea routes, between and within the Eastern and
  Western Hemispheres. Other economic activity includes the
  exploitation of natural resources, e.g., fishing, the dredging of
  aragonite sands (The Bahamas), and production of crude oil and
  natural gas (Caribbean Sea, Gulf of Mexico, and North Sea).

Australia:
  Australia has a prosperous Western-style capitalist
  economy, with a per capita GDP at the level of the four dominant
  West European economies. Rich in natural resources, Australia is a
  major exporter of agricultural products, minerals, metals, and
  fossil fuels. Commodities account for 57% of the value of total
  exports, so that a downturn in world commodity prices can have a big
  impact on the economy. The government is pushing for increased
  exports of manufactured goods, but competition in international
  markets continues to be severe. While Australia has suffered from
  the low growth and high unemployment characterizing the OECD
  countries in the early 1990s and during the recent financial
  problems in East Asia, the economy has expanded at a solid 4% annual
  growth pace in the last five years. Canberra's emphasis on reforms
  is a key factor behind the economy's resilience to the regional
  crisis and its stronger than expected growth rate. Growth in 2001
  will depend on key international commodity prices, the extent of
  recovery in nearby Asian economies, and the strength of US and
  European markets.

Austria:
  Austria with its well-developed market economy and high
  standard of living is closely tied to other EU economies, especially
  Germany's. Membership in the EU has drawn an influx of foreign
  investors attracted by Austria's access to the single European
  market and proximity to EU aspirant economies. In 2000, Austria
  moved to further cut government spending and raise taxes to meet EMU
  deficit targets after facing unexpected difficulties in reducing the
  public deficit. To meet increased competition from both EU and
  Central European countries, Austria will need to emphasize
  knowledge-based sectors of the economy and continue to deregulate
  the service sector. Growth is expected to remain at about 3% in 2001.

Azerbaijan:
  Azerbaijan's most prominent products are oil, cotton,
  and natural gas. Azerbaijan's oil production declined through 1997
  but has registered an increase every year since. Negotiation of 19
  production-sharing arrangements (PSAs) with foreign firms, which
  have thus far committed $60 billion to oil field development, should
  generate the funds needed to spur future industrial development. Oil
  production under the first of these PSAs, with the Azerbaijan
  International Operating Company, began in November 1997. Azerbaijan
  shares all the formidable problems of the former Soviet republics in
  making the transition from a command to a market economy, but its
  considerable energy resources brighten its long-term prospects. Baku
  has only recently begun making progress on economic reform, and old
  economic ties and structures are slowly being replaced. An obstacle
  to economic progress, including stepped up foreign investment, is
  the continuing conflict with Armenia over the Nagorno-Karabakh
  region. Trade with Russia and the other former Soviet republics is
  declining in importance while trade is building up with Turkey,
  Iran, UAE, and the nations of Europe. Long-term prospects will
  depend on world oil prices, the location of new pipelines in the
  region, and Azerbaijan's ability to manage its oil wealth.

Bahamas, The:
  The Bahamas is a stable, developing nation with an
  economy heavily dependent on tourism and offshore banking. Tourism
  alone accounts for more than 60% of GDP and directly or indirectly
  employs 40% of the archipelago's labor force. Moderate growth in
  tourism receipts and a boom in construction of new hotels, resorts,
  and residences led to an increase of the country's GDP by an
  estimated 3% in 1998, 6% in 1999, and 4.5% in 2000. Manufacturing
  and agriculture together contribute only 10% of GDP and show little
  growth, despite government incentives aimed at those sectors.
  Overall growth prospects in the short run will depend heavily on the
  fortunes of the tourism sector and continued sturdy growth in the
  US, which accounts for the majority of tourist visitors.

Bahrain:
  In Bahrain, petroleum production and refining account for
  about 60% of export receipts, 60% of government revenues, and 30% of
  GDP. With its highly developed communication and transport
  facilities, Bahrain is home to numerous multinational firms with
  business in the Gulf. Bahrain is dependent on Saudi Arabia for oil
  revenue granted as aid. A large share of exports consists of
  petroleum products made from imported crude. Construction proceeds
  on several major industrial projects. Unemployment, especially among
  the young, and the depletion of both oil and underground water
  resources are major long-term economic problems.

Baker Island:
  no economic activity

Bangladesh:
  Despite sustained domestic and international efforts to
  improve economic and demographic prospects, Bangladesh remains one
  of the world's poorest, most densely populated, and least developed
  nations. Although more than half of GDP is generated through the
  service sector, nearly two-thirds of Bangladeshis are employed in
  the agriculture sector, with rice as the single most important
  product. Major impediments to growth include frequent cyclones and
  floods, inefficient state-owned enterprises, inadequate port
  facilities, a rapidly growing labor force that cannot be absorbed by
  agriculture, delays in exploiting energy resources (natural gas),
  insufficient power supplies, and slow implementation of economic
  reforms. Reform is stalled in many instances by political infighting
  and corruption at all levels of government. Even so, Prime Minister
  Sheikh HASINA's Awami League government has made some headway
  improving the climate for foreign investors and liberalizing the
  capital markets. Progress on other economic reforms has been halting
  because of opposition from the bureaucracy, public sector unions,
  and other vested interest groups.

Barbados:
  Historically, the Barbadian economy had been dependent on
  sugarcane cultivation and related activities, but production in
  recent years has diversified into manufacturing and tourism. The
  start of the Port Charles Marina project in Speightstown helped the
  tourism industry continue to expand in 1996-2000. Offshore finance
  and information services are important foreign exchange earners, and
  there is also a light manufacturing sector. The government continues
  its efforts to reduce unemployment, encourage direct foreign
  investment, and privatize remaining state-owned enterprises. Growth
  should remain steady in 2001, with new tourist facilities a plus
  factor.

Bassas da India:
  no economic activity

Belarus:
  Belarus has seen little structural reform since 1995, when
  President LUKASHENKO launched the country on the path of "market
  socialism." In keeping with this policy, LUKASHENKO reimposed
  administrative controls over prices and currency exchange rates and
  expanded the state's right to intervene in the management of private
  enterprise. In addition to the burdens imposed by extremely high
  inflation, businesses have been subject to pressure on the part of
  central and local governments, e.g., arbitrary changes in
  regulations, numerous rigorous inspections, and retroactive
  application of new business regulations prohibiting practices that
  had been legal. Further economic problems are two consecutive bad
  harvests, 1998-99, and persistent trade deficits. Close relations
  with Russia, possibly leading to reunion, color the pattern of
  economic developments. For the time being, Belarus remains
  self-isolated from the West and its open-market economies.

Belgium:
  This modern private enterprise economy has capitalized on
  its central geographic location, highly developed transport network,
  and diversified industrial and commercial base. Industry is
  concentrated mainly in the populous Flemish area in the north,
  although the government is encouraging investment in the southern
  region of Wallonia. With few natural resources, Belgium must import
  substantial quantities of raw materials and export a large volume of
  manufactures, making its economy unusually dependent on the state of
  world markets. About three-quarters of its trade is with other EU
  countries. Belgium's public debt is expected to fall below 100% of
  GDP in 2002, and the government has succeeded in balancing is
  budget. Belgium became a charter member of the European Monetary
  Union (EMU) in January 1999. Economic growth in 2000 was broad
  based, putting the government in a good position to pursue its
  energy market liberalization policies and planned tax cuts.

Belize:
  The small, essentially private enterprise economy is based
  primarily on agriculture, agro-based industry, and merchandising,
  with tourism and construction assuming greater importance. Sugar,
  the chief crop, accounts for nearly half of exports, while the
  banana industry is the country's largest employer. The government's
  tough austerity program in 1997 resulted in an economic slowdown
  that continued in 1998. The trade deficit has been growing, mostly
  as a result of low export prices for sugar and bananas. The tourist
  and construction sectors strengthened in early 1999, supporting
  growth of 6% in 1999 and 4% in 2000. Aided by international donors,
  the government's key short-term objective remains the reduction of
  poverty.

Benin:
  The economy of Benin remains underdeveloped and dependent on
  subsistence agriculture, cotton production, and regional trade.
  Growth in real output averaged a sound 5% in 1996-99, but a rapid
  population rise offset much of this growth. Inflation has subsided
  over the past several years. Commercial and transport activities,
  which make up a large part of GDP, are vulnerable to developments in
  Nigeria, particularly fuel shortages. The Paris Club and bilateral
  creditors have eased the external debt situation in recent years.
  While high fuel prices constrained growth in 2000, increased cotton
  production - enabled by a major restructuring program - and an
  expansion of the Cotonou port, may lead to increased growth in 2001.

Bermuda:
  Bermuda enjoys one of the highest per capita incomes in the
  world, having successfully exploited its location by providing
  financial services for international firms and luxury tourist
  facilities for 360,000 visitors annually. The tourist industry,
  which accounts for an estimated 28% of GDP, attracts 84% of its
  business from North America. The industrial sector is small, and
  agriculture is severely limited by a lack of suitable land. About
  80% of food needs are imported. International business contributes
  over 60% of Bermuda's economic output; a failed independence vote in
  late 1995 can be partially attributed to Bermudian fears of scaring
  away foreign firms. Government economic priorities are the further
  strengthening of the tourist and international financial sectors.

Bhutan:
  The economy, one of the world's smallest and least
  developed, is based on agriculture and forestry, which provide the
  main livelihood for more than 90% of the population. Agriculture
  consists largely of subsistence farming and animal husbandry. Rugged
  mountains dominate the terrain and make the building of roads and
  other infrastructure difficult and expensive. The economy is closely
  aligned with India's through strong trade and monetary links. The
  industrial sector is technologically backward, with most production
  of the cottage industry type. Most development projects, such as
  road construction, rely on Indian migrant labor. Bhutan's hydropower
  potential and its attraction for tourists are key resources. The
  Bhutanese Government has made some progress in expanding the
  nation's productive base and improving social welfare. Model
  education, social, and environment programs in Bhutan are underway
  with support from multilateral development organizations. Each
  economic program takes into account the government's desire to
  protect the country's environment and cultural traditions. Detailed
  controls and uncertain policies in areas like industrial licensing,
  trade, labor, and finance continue to hamper foreign investment.

Bolivia:
  Bolivia, long one of the poorest and least developed Latin
  American countries, has made considerable progress toward the
  development of a market-oriented economy. Successes under President
  SANCHEZ DE LOZADA (1993-97) included the signing of a free trade
  agreement with Mexico and joining the Southern Cone Common Market
  (Mercosur), as well as the privatization of the state airline,
  telephone company, railroad, electric power company, and oil
  company. His successor, Hugo BANZER Suarez has tried to further
  improve the country's investment climate with an anticorruption
  campaign. Growth slowed in 1999, in part due to tight government
  budget policies, which limited needed appropriations for
  anti-poverty programs, and the fallout from the Asian financial
  crisis. In 2000, major civil disturbances in April, and again in
  September and October, held down overall growth to 2.5%.

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  Bosnia and Herzegovina ranked next to The
  Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia as the poorest republic in the
  old Yugoslav federation. Although agriculture is almost all in
  private hands, farms are small and inefficient, and the republic
  traditionally is a net importer of food. Industry has been greatly
  overstaffed, one reflection of the socialist economic structure of
  Yugoslavia. TITO had pushed the development of military industries
  in the republic with the result that Bosnia hosted a large share of
  Yugoslavia's defense plants. The bitter interethnic warfare in
  Bosnia caused production to plummet by 80% from 1990 to 1995,
  unemployment to soar, and human misery to multiply. With an uneasy
  peace in place, output recovered in 1996-98 at high percentage rates
  from a low base; but output growth slowed appreciably in 1999 and
  2000, and GDP remains far below the 1990 level. Economic data are of
  limited use because, although both entities issue figures,
  national-level statistics are not available. Moreover, official data
  do not capture the large share of activity that occurs on the black
  market. The marka - the national currency introduced in 1998 - has
  gained wide acceptance, and the Central Bank of Bosnia and
  Herzegovina has dramatically increased its reserve holdings.
  Implementation of privatization, however, has been slower than
  anticipated. Banking reform accelerated in early 2001 as all the
  communist-era payments bureaus were shut down. The country receives
  substantial amounts of reconstruction assistance and humanitarian
  aid from the international community but will have to prepare for an
  era of declining assistance.

Botswana:
  Botswana has maintained one of the world's highest growth
  rates since independence in 1966. Through fiscal discipline and
  sound management, Botswana has transformed itself from one of the
  poorest countries in the world to a middle-income country with a per
  capita GDP of $6,600 in 2000. Diamond mining has fueled much of
  Botswana's economic expansion and currently accounts for more than
  one-third of GDP and for three-fourths of export earnings. Tourism,
  subsistence farming, and cattle raising are other key sectors. The
  government must deal with high rates of unemployment and poverty.
  Unemployment officially is 19%, but unofficial estimates place it
  closer to 40%. HIV/AIDS infection rates are the highest in the world
  and threaten Botswana's impressive economic gains.

Bouvet Island:
  no economic activity; declared a nature reserve

Brazil:
  Possessing large and well-developed agricultural, mining,
  manufacturing, and service sectors, Brazil's economy outweighs that
  of all other South American countries and is expanding its presence
  in world markets. In the late eighties and early nineties, high
  inflation hindered economic activity and investment. "The Real
  Plan", instituted in the spring of 1994, sought to break
  inflationary expectations by pegging the real to the US dollar.
  Inflation was brought down to single digit annual figures, but not
  fast enough to avoid substantial real exchange rate appreciation
  during the transition phase of the "Real Plan". This appreciation
  meant that Brazilian goods were now more expensive relative to goods
  from other countries, which contributed to large current account
  deficits. However, no shortage of foreign currency ensued because of
  the financial community's renewed interest in Brazilian markets as
  inflation rates stabilized and the debt crisis of the eighties faded
  from memory. The maintenance of large current account deficits via
  capital account surpluses became problematic as investors became
  more risk averse to emerging market exposure as a consequence of the
  Asian financial crisis in 1997 and the Russian bond default in
  August 1998. After crafting a fiscal adjustment program and pledging
  progress on structural reform, Brazil received a $41.5 billion
  IMF-led international support program in November 1998. In January
  1999, the Brazilian Central Bank announced that the real would no
  longer be pegged to the US dollar. This devaluation helped moderate
  the downturn in economic growth in 1999 that investors had expressed
  concerns about over the summer of 1998. Brazil's debt to GDP ratio
  for 1999 beat the IMF target and helped reassure investors that
  Brazil will maintain tight fiscal and monetary policy even with a
  floating currency. The economy continued to recover in 2000, with
  inflation remaining in the single digits and expected growth for
  2001 of 4.5%. Foreign direct investment set a record of more than
  $30 billion in 2000.

British Indian Ocean Territory:
  All economic activity is
  concentrated on the largest island of Diego Garcia, where joint
  UK-US defense facilities are located. Construction projects and
  various services needed to support the military installations are
  done by military and contract employees from the UK, Mauritius, the
  Philippines, and the US. There are no industrial or agricultural
  activities on the islands. When the Ilois return, they plan to
  reestablish sugarcane production and fishing.

British Virgin Islands:
  The economy, one of the most stable and
  prosperous in the Caribbean, is highly dependent on tourism, which
  generates an estimated 45% of the national income. An estimated
  350,000 tourists, mainly from the US, visited the islands in 1997.
  In the mid-1980s, the government began offering offshore
  registration to companies wishing to incorporate in the islands, and
  incorporation fees now generate substantial revenues. An estimated
  250,000 companies were on the offshore registry by yearend 1997. The
  adoption of a comprehensive insurance law in late 1994, which
  provides a blanket of confidentiality with regulated statutory
  gateways for investigation of criminal offenses, is expected to make
  the British Virgin Islands even more attractive to international
  business. Livestock raising is the most important agricultural
  activity; poor soils limit the islands' ability to meet domestic
  food requirements. Because of traditionally close links with the US
  Virgin Islands, the British Virgin Islands has used the dollar as
  its currency since 1959.

Brunei:
  This small, wealthy economy is a mixture of foreign and
  domestic entrepreneurship, government regulation and welfare
  measures, and village tradition. Exports of crude oil and natural
  gas account for over half of GDP. Per capita GDP is far above most
  other Third World countries, and substantial income from overseas
  investment supplements income from domestic production. The
  government provides for all medical services and subsidizes rice and
  housing. Brunei's leaders are concerned that steadily increased
  integration in the world economy will undermine internal social
  cohesion although it became a more prominent player by serving as
  chairman for the 2000 APEC (Asian Pacific Economic Cooperation)
  forum. Plans for the future include upgrading the labor force,
  reducing unemployment, strengthening the banking and tourist
  sectors, and, in general, a further widening of the economic base
  beyond oil and gas.

Bulgaria:
  Bulgaria, a former communist country struggling to enter
  the European market economy, suffered a major economic downturn in
  1996 and 1997, with triple digit inflation and GDP contraction of
  10.6% and 6.9%. The current government - which took office in May
  1997 after pre-term parliamentary elections - stabilized the economy
  and promoted growth by implementing a currency board, practicing
  sound financial policies, invigorating privatization, and pursuing
  structural reforms. Additionally, strong assistance from
  international financial institutions - most notably the IMF which
  approved a three-year Extended Fund Facility worth approximately
  $900 million in September 1998 - played a critical role in turning
  the economy around. After several years of tumult, Bulgaria's
  economy has stabilized. Its better-than-expected economic
  performance in 1999 - despite the impact of the Kosovo conflict, the
  1998 Russian financial crisis, and structural reforms - and strong
  growth in 2000 portends solid growth over the next few years; this
  assumes continued fiscal restraint, additional structural reforms,
  aid from abroad, and prosperous times in the EU economy.

Burkina Faso:
  One of the poorest countries in the world, landlocked
  Burkina Faso has a high population density, few natural resources,
  and a fragile soil. About 90% of the population is engaged in
  (mainly subsistence) agriculture which is highly vulnerable to
  variations in rainfall. Industry remains dominated by unprofitable
  government-controlled corporations. Following the African franc
  currency devaluation in January 1994 the government updated its
  development program in conjunction with international agencies, and
  exports and economic growth have increased. Maintenance of its
  macroeconomic progress in 2001-02 depends on continued low
  inflation, reduction in the trade deficit, and reforms designed to
  encourage private investment.

Burma:
  Burma has a mixed economy with private activity dominant in
  agriculture, light industry, and transport, and with substantial
  state-controlled activity, mainly in energy, heavy industry, and the
  rice trade. Government policy in the 1990s has aimed at revitalizing
  the economy after three decades of tight central planning. Private
  activity markedly increased in the early to mid-1990s, but began to
  decline in the past several years due to frustrations with the
  unfriendly business environment and political pressure from western
  nations. Published estimates of Burma's foreign trade are greatly
  understated because of the volume of black-market, illicit, and
  border trade. A major ongoing problem is the failure to achieve
  monetary and fiscal stability. Burma remains a poor Asian country
  and living standards for the majority have not improved over the
  past decade. Short-term growth will continue to be restrained
  because of poor government planning and minimal foreign investment.

Burundi:
  Burundi is a landlocked, resource-poor country with an
  underdeveloped manufacturing sector. The economy is predominantly
  agricultural with roughly 90% of the population dependent on
  subsistence agriculture. Its economic health depends on the coffee
  crop, which accounts for 80% of foreign exchange earnings. The
  ability to pay for imports therefore rests largely on the vagaries
  of the climate and the international coffee market. Since October
  1993 the nation has suffered from massive ethnic-based violence
  which has resulted in the death of perhaps 250,000 persons and the
  displacement of about 800,000 others. Only one in four children go
  to school, and one in nine adults has HIV/AIDS. Foods, medicines,
  and electricity remain in short supply.

Cambodia:
  Cambodia's economy slowed dramatically in 1997-98 due to
  the regional economic crisis, civil violence, and political
  infighting. Foreign investment and tourism fell off. In 1999, the
  first full year of peace in 30 years, progress was made on economic
  reforms and growth resumed at 4%. GDP growth for 2000 had been
  projected to reach 5.5%, but the worst flooding in 70 years severely
  damaged agricultural crops, and high oil prices hurt industrial
  production, and growth for the year is estimated at only 4%. Tourism
  is Cambodia's fastest growing industry, with arrivals up 34% in
  2000. The long-term development of the economy after decades of war
  remains a daunting challenge. The population lacks education and
  productive skills, particularly in the poverty-ridden countryside,
  which suffers from an almost total lack of basic infrastructure.
  Fear of renewed political instability and corruption within the
  government discourage foreign investment and delay foreign aid. On
  the brighter side, the government is addressing these issues with
  assistance from bilateral and multilateral donors.

Cameroon:
  Because of its oil resources and favorable agricultural
  conditions, Cameroon has one of the best-endowed primary commodity
  economies in sub-Saharan Africa. Still, it faces many of the serious
  problems facing other underdeveloped countries, such as a top-heavy
  civil service and a generally unfavorable climate for business
  enterprise. Since 1990, the government has embarked on various IMF
  and World Bank programs designed to spur business investment,
  increase efficiency in agriculture, improve trade, and recapitalize
  the nation's banks. In June 2000, the government completed an
  IMF-sponsored, three-year structural adjustment program; however,
  the IMF is pressing for more reforms, including increased budget
  transparency and privatization. Higher oil prices in 2000 helped to
  offset the country's lower cocoa export revenues. A rebound in the
  cocoa market should increase growth to over 5% in 2001.

Canada:
  As an affluent, high-tech industrial society, Canada today
  closely resembles the US in its market-oriented economic system,
  pattern of production, and high living standards. Since World War
  II, the impressive growth of the manufacturing, mining, and service
  sectors has transformed the nation from a largely rural economy into
  one primarily industrial and urban. Real rates of growth have
  averaged nearly 3.0% since 1993. Unemployment is falling and
  government budget surpluses are being partially devoted to reducing
  the large public sector debt. The 1989 US-Canada Free Trade
  Agreement (FTA) and 1994 North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA)
  (which included Mexico) have touched off a dramatic increase in
  trade and economic integration with the US. With its great natural
  resources, skilled labor force, and modern capital plant Canada
  enjoys solid economic prospects. Two shadows loom, the first being
  the continuing constitutional impasse between English- and
  French-speaking areas, which has been raising the possibility of a
  split in the federation. Another long-term concern is the flow south
  to the US of professional persons lured by higher pay, lower taxes,
  and the immense high-tech infrastructure.

Cape Verde:
  Cape Verde's low per capita GDP reflects a poor natural
  resource base, including serious water shortages exacerbated by
  cycles of long-term drought. The economy is service-oriented, with
  commerce, transport, and public services accounting for almost 70%
  of GDP. Although nearly 70% of the population lives in rural areas,
  the share of agriculture in GDP in 1998 was only 13%, of which
  fishing accounts for 1.5%. About 90% of food must be imported. The
  fishing potential, mostly lobster and tuna, is not fully exploited.
  Cape Verde annually runs a high trade deficit, financed by foreign
  aid and remittances from emigrants; remittances constitute a
  supplement to GDP of more than 20%. Economic reforms, launched by
  the new democratic government in 1991, are aimed at developing the
  private sector and attracting foreign investment to diversify the
  economy. Prospects for 2001 depend heavily on the maintenance of aid
  flows, remittances, and the momentum of the government's development
  program.

Cayman Islands:
  With no direct taxation, the islands are a thriving
  offshore financial center. More than 40,000 companies were
  registered in the Cayman Islands as of 1997, including almost 600
  banks and trust companies; banking assets exceed $500 billion. A
  stock exchange was opened in 1997. Tourism is also a mainstay,
  accounting for about 70% of GDP and 75% of foreign currency
  earnings. The tourist industry is aimed at the luxury market and
  caters mainly to visitors from North America. Total tourist arrivals
  exceeded 1.2 million visitors in 1997. About 90% of the islands'
  food and consumer goods must be imported. The Caymanians enjoy one
  of the highest outputs per capita and one of the highest standards
  of living in the world.

Central African Republic:
  Subsistence agriculture, together with
  forestry, remains the backbone of the economy of the Central African
  Republic (CAR), with more than 70% of the population living in
  outlying areas. The agricultural sector generates half of GDP.
  Timber has accounted for about 16% of export earnings and the
  diamond industry for nearly 54%. Important constraints to economic
  development include the CAR's landlocked position, a poor
  transportation system, a largely unskilled work force, and a legacy
  of misdirected macroeconomic policies. The 50% devaluation of the
  currencies of 14 Francophone African nations on 12 January 1994 had
  mixed effects on the CAR's economy. Diamond, timber, coffee, and
  cotton exports increased, leading an estimated rise of GDP of 7% in
  1994 and nearly 5% in 1995. Military rebellions and social unrest in
  1996 were accompanied by widespread destruction of property and a
  drop in GDP of 2%. The IMF approved an Extended Structure Adjustment
  Facility in 1998 and the World Bank extended further credits in 1999
  and approved a $10 million loan in early 2001. The government has
  set targets of 3.5% GDP growth in 2001 and 2002. As of January 2001,
  many civil servants were owed as much as 30 months pay, leading them
  to go on strike and further damaging the economy.

Chad:
  Landlocked Chad's economic development suffers from its
  geographic remoteness, drought, lack of infrastructure, and
  political turmoil. About 85% of the population depends on
  agriculture, including the herding of livestock. Of Africa's
  Francophone countries, Chad benefited least from the 50% devaluation
  of their currencies in January 1994. Financial aid from the World
  Bank, the African Development Fund, and other sources is directed
  largely at the improvement of agriculture, especially livestock
  production. The World Bank's decision to back the Doba oil field
  development and the Chad-Cameroon pipeline will add Chad to the
  group of already booming West African oil exporters. However, the
  rank and file may not benefit much from the oil development projects.

Chile:
  Chile has a market-oriented economy characterized by a high
  level of foreign trade. During the early 1990s, Chile's reputation
  as a role model for economic reform was strengthened when the
  democratic government of Patricio AYLWIN - which took over from the
  military in 1990 - deepened the economic reform initiated by the
  military government. Growth in real GDP averaged 8% during 1991-97,
  but fell to half that level in 1998 because of tight monetary
  policies implemented to keep the current account deficit in check
  and lower export earnings - the latter a product of the global
  financial crisis. A severe drought exacerbated the recession in
  1999, reducing crop yields and causing hydroelectric shortfalls and
  electricity rationing, and Chile experienced negative economic
  growth for the first time in more than 15 years. Despite the effects
  of the recession, Chile maintained its reputation for strong
  financial institutions and sound policy that have given it the
  strongest sovereign bond rating in South America. By the end of
  1999, exports and economic activity had begun to recover, and growth
  rebounded to 5.5% in 2000. Unemployment remains stubbornly high,
  however, putting pressure on President LAGOS to improve living
  standards. Meanwhile, Chile has launched free trade negotiations
  with the US.

China:
  In late 1978 the Chinese leadership began moving the economy
  from a sluggish Soviet-style centrally planned economy to a more
  market-oriented system. Whereas the system operates within a
  political framework of strict Communist control, the economic
  influence of non-state managers and enterprises has been steadily
  increasing. The authorities have switched to a system of household
  responsibility in agriculture in place of the old collectivization,
  increased the authority of local officials and plant managers in
  industry, permitted a wide variety of small-scale enterprise in
  services and light manufacturing, and opened the economy to
  increased foreign trade and investment. The result has been a
  quadrupling of GDP since 1978. In 2000, with its 1.26 billion people
  but a GDP of just $3,600 per capita, China stood as the second
  largest economy in the world after the US (measured on a purchasing
  power parity basis). Agricultural output doubled in the 1980s, and
  industry also posted major gains, especially in coastal areas near
  Hong Kong and opposite Taiwan, where foreign investment helped spur
  output of both domestic and export goods. On the darker side, the
  leadership has often experienced in its hybrid system the worst
  results of socialism (bureaucracy and lassitude) and of capitalism
  (windfall gains and stepped-up inflation). Beijing thus has
  periodically backtracked, retightening central controls at
  intervals. The government has struggled to (a) collect revenues due
  from provinces, businesses, and individuals; (b) reduce corruption
  and other economic crimes; and (c) keep afloat the large state-owned
  enterprises many of which had been shielded from competition by
  subsides and had been losing the ability to pay full wages and
  pensions. From 80 to 120 million surplus rural workers are adrift
  between the villages and the cities, many subsisting through
  part-time low-paying jobs. Popular resistance, changes in central
  policy, and loss of authority by rural cadres have weakened China's
  population control program, which is essential to maintaining growth
  in living standards. Another long-term threat to continued rapid
  economic growth is the deterioration in the environment, notably air
  pollution, soil erosion, and the steady fall of the water table
  especially in the north. China continues to lose arable land because
  of erosion and economic development. Weakness in the global economy
  in 2001 could hamper growth in exports. Beijing will intensify
  efforts to stimulate growth through spending on infrastructure--such
  as water control and power grids--and poverty relief and through
  rural tax reform aimed at eliminating arbitrary local levies on
  farmers.

Christmas Island:
  Phosphate mining had been the only significant
  economic activity, but in December 1987 the Australian Government
  closed the mine. In 1991, the mine was reopened by union workers.
  With the support of the government, Australian-based Casinos Austria
  International Ltd. built a $34 million casino on Christmas Island,
  which opened in 1993. As of yearend 1999, gaming facilities at the
  casino were temporarily closed but were expected to reopen in early
  2000. Another economic prospect is the possible location of a
  space-launching site on the island.

Clipperton Island:
  Although 115 species of fish have been identified
  in the territorial waters of Clipperton Island, the only economic
  activity is tuna fishing.

Cocos (Keeling) Islands:
  Grown throughout the islands, coconuts are
  the sole cash crop. Copra and fresh coconuts are the major export
  earners. Small local gardens and fishing contribute to the food
  supply, but additional food and most other necessities must be
  imported from Australia.

Colombia:
  Colombia is poised for muted growth in the next several
  years, marking continued recovery from the severe 1999 recession
  when GDP fell by about 4%. President PASTRANA's well-respected
  economic team is working to keep the economy on track, maintaining
  low interest rates, for example. In accordance with its IMF loan
  agreement, the administration also is taking steps to improve the
  public sector's fiscal health. However, many challenges to improved
  prosperity remain. Unemployment was stuck at a record 20% in 2000,
  contributing to the extreme inequality in income distribution. Two
  of Colombia's leading exports, oil and coffee, face an uncertain
  future; new exploration is needed to offset declining oil
  production, while coffee harvests and prices are depressed. The lack
  of public security is a key concern for investors, making progress
  in the government's peace negotiations with insurgent groups an
  important driver of economic performance. Colombia is looking for
  continued support from the international community to boost economic
  and peace prospects.

Comoros:
  One of the world's poorest countries, Comoros is made up of
  three islands that have inadequate transportation links, a young and
  rapidly increasing population, and few natural resources. The low
  educational level of the labor force contributes to a subsistence
  level of economic activity, high unemployment, and a heavy
  dependence on foreign grants and technical assistance. Agriculture,
  including fishing, hunting, and forestry, is the leading sector of
  the economy. It contributes 40% to GDP, employs 80% of the labor
  force, and provides most of the exports. The country is not
  self-sufficient in food production; rice, the main staple, accounts
  for the bulk of imports. The government is struggling to upgrade
  education and technical training, to privatize commercial and
  industrial enterprises, to improve health services, to diversify
  exports, to promote tourism, and to reduce the high population
  growth rate. Continued foreign support is essential if the goal of
  4% annual GDP growth is to be met. Remittances from 150,000 Comorans
  abroad help supplement GDP.

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  The economy of the Democratic
  Republic of the Congo - a nation endowed with vast potential wealth
  - has declined drastically since the mid-1980s. The new government
  instituted a tight fiscal policy that initially curbed inflation and
  currency depreciation, but these small gains were quickly reversed
  when the foreign-backed rebellion in the eastern part of the country
  began in August 1998. The war has dramatically reduced national
  output and government revenue and has increased external debt.
  Foreign businesses have curtailed operations due to uncertainty
  about the outcome of the conflict and because of increased
  government harassment and restrictions. The war has intensified the
  impact of such basic problems as an uncertain legal framework,
  corruption, raging inflation, and lack of openness in government
  economic policy and financial operations. A number of IMF and World
  Bank missions have met with the government to help it develop a
  coherent economic plan but associated reforms are on hold.

Congo, Republic of the:
  The economy is a mixture of village
  agriculture and handicrafts, an industrial sector based largely on
  oil, support services, and a government characterized by budget
  problems and overstaffing. Oil has supplanted forestry as the
  mainstay of the economy, providing a major share of government
  revenues and exports. In the early 1980s, rapidly rising oil
  revenues enabled the government to finance large-scale development
  projects with GDP growth averaging 5% annually, one of the highest
  rates in Africa. Moreover, the government has mortgaged a
  substantial portion of its oil earnings, contributing to the
  government's shortage of revenues. The 12 January 1994 devaluation
  of Franc Zone currencies by 50% resulted in inflation of 61% in
  1994, but inflation has subsided since. Economic reform efforts
  continued with the support of international organizations, notably
  the World Bank and the IMF. The reform program came to a halt in
  June 1997 when civil war erupted. Denis SASSOU-NGUESSO, who returned
  to power when the war ended in October 1997, publicly expressed
  interest in moving forward on economic reforms and privatization and
  in renewing cooperation with international financial institutions.
  However, economic progress was badly hurt by slumping oil prices and
  the resumption of armed conflict in December 1998, which worsened
  the Republic of the Congo's budget deficit. Even with the IMF's
  renewed confidence and high world oil prices, Congo is unlikely to
  realize growth of more than 5% in 2001-02. With the return to
  fragile peace, the IMF approved a $14 million credit in November
  2000 to aid post-conflict reconstruction.

Cook Islands:
  Like many other South Pacific island nations, the Cook
  Islands' economic development is hindered by the isolation of the
  country from foreign markets, the limited size of domestic markets,
  lack of natural resources, periodic devastation from natural
  disasters, and inadequate infrastructure. Agriculture provides the
  economic base with major exports made up of copra and citrus fruit.
  Manufacturing activities are limited to fruit processing, clothing,
  and handicrafts. Trade deficits are made up for by remittances from
  emigrants and by foreign aid, overwhelmingly from New Zealand. In
  the 1980s and 1990s, the country lived beyond its means, maintaining
  a bloated public service and accumulating a large foreign debt.
  Subsequent reforms, including the sale of state assets, the
  strengthening of economic management, the encouragement of tourism,
  and a debt restructuring agreement, have rekindled investment and
  growth.

Coral Sea Islands:
  no economic activity

Costa Rica:
  Costa Rica's basically stable economy depends on
  tourism, agriculture, and electronics exports. Poverty has been
  substantially reduced over the past 15 years, and a strong social
  safety net has been put into place. Foreign investors remain
  attracted by the country's political stability and high education
  levels, and tourism continues to bring in foreign exchange. However,
  traditional export sectors have not kept pace. Low coffee prices and
  an overabundance of bananas have hurt the agricultural sector. The
  government continues to grapple with its large deficit and massive
  internal debt and with the need to modernize the state-owned
  electricity and telecommunications sector.

Cote d'Ivoire:
  Cote d'Ivoire is among the world's largest producers
  and exporters of coffee, cocoa beans, and palm oil. Consequently,
  the economy is highly sensitive to fluctuations in international
  prices for these products and to weather conditions. Despite
  government attempts to diversify the economy, it is still largely
  dependent on agriculture and related activities, which engage
  roughly 68% of the population. After several years of lagging
  performance, the Ivorian economy began a comeback in 1994, due to
  the 50% devaluation of the CFA franc and improved prices for cocoa
  and coffee, growth in nontraditional primary exports such as
  pineapples and rubber, limited trade and banking liberalization,
  offshore oil and gas discoveries, and generous external financing
  and debt rescheduling by multilateral lenders and France. Moreover,
  government adherence to donor-mandated reforms led to a jump in
  growth to 5% annually in 1996-99. Growth was negative in 2000
  because of the difficulty of meeting the conditions of international
  donors, continued low prices of key exports, and post-coup
  instability. In 2001-02, a moderate rebound in the cocoa market
  could boost growth back above 3%; however, political instability
  could impede growth again.

Croatia:
  Before the dissolution of Yugoslavia, the Republic of
  Croatia, after Slovenia, was the most prosperous and industrialized
  area, with a per capita output perhaps one-third above the Yugoslav
  average. Croatia faces considerable economic problems stemming from:
  the legacy of longtime communist mismanagement of the economy;
  damage during the internecine fighting to bridges, factories, power
  lines, buildings, and houses; the large refugee and displaced
  population, both Croatian and Bosnian; and the disruption of
  economic ties. Stepped-up Western aid and investment, especially in
  the tourist and oil industries, would help bolster the economy. The
  economy emerged from its mild recession in 2000 with tourism the
  main factor. Massive unemployment remains a key negative element.
  The government's failure to press the economic reforms needed to
  spur growth is largely the result of coalition politics and public
  resistance, particularly from the trade unions, to measures that
  would cut jobs, wages, or social benefits.

Cuba:
  The government, the primary player in the economy, has
  undertaken limited reforms in recent years to stem excess liquidity,
  increase enterprise efficiency, and alleviate serious shortages of
  food, consumer goods, and services, but prioritizing of political
  control makes extensive reforms unlikely. Living standards for the
  average Cuban, without access to dollars, remain at a depressed
  level compared with 1990. The liberalized farmers' markets
  introduced in 1994, sell above-quota production at market prices,
  expand legal consumption alternatives, and reduce black market
  prices. Income taxes and increased regulations introduced since 1996
  have sharply reduced the number of legally self-employed from a high
  of 208,000 in January 1996. Havana announced in 1995 that GDP
  declined by 35% during 1989-93 as a result of lost Soviet aid and
  domestic inefficiencies. The slide in GDP came to a halt in 1994
  when Cuba reported growth in GDP of 0.7%. Cuba reported that GDP
  increased by 2.5% in 1995 and 7.8% in 1996, before slowing down in
  1997 and 1998 to 2.5% and 1.2% respectively. Growth recovered with a
  6.2% increase in GDP in 1999 and a 5.6% increase in 2000. Much of
  Cuba's recovery can be attributed to tourism revenues and foreign
  investment. Growth in 2001 should continue at the same level as the
  government balances the need for economic loosening against its
  concern for firm political control.

Cyprus:
  Economic affairs are affected by the division of the
  country. The Greek Cypriot economy is prosperous but highly
  susceptible to external shocks. Erratic growth rates in the 1990s
  reflect the economy's vulnerability to swings in tourist arrivals,
  caused by political instability on the island and fluctuations in
  economic conditions in Western Europe. Economic policy is focused on
  meeting the criteria for admission to the EU. As in the Turkish
  sector, water shortage is a growing problem, and several
  desalination plants are planned. The Turkish Cypriot economy has
  about one-fifth the population and one-third the per capita GDP of
  the south. Because it is recognized only by Turkey, it has had much
  difficulty arranging foreign financing, and foreign firms have
  hesitated to invest there. It remains heavily dependent on
  agriculture and government service, which together employ about half
  of the work force. Moreover, the small, vulnerable economy has
  suffered because the Turkish lira is legal tender. To compensate for
  the economy's weakness, Turkey provides direct and indirect aid to
  tourism, education, industry, etc.

Czech Republic:
  Basically one of the most stable and prosperous of
  the post-Communist states, the Czech Republic has been recovering
  from recession since mid-1999. The economy grew about 2.5% in 2000
  and should achieve somewhat higher growth in 2001. Growth is led by
  exports to the EU, especially Germany, and foreign investment, while
  domestic demand is reviving. Uncomfortably high fiscal and current
  account deficits could be future problems. Unemployment is down to
  8.7% as job creation continues in the rebounding economy; inflation
  is up to 3.8% but still moderate. The EU put the Czech Republic just
  behind Poland and Hungary in preparations for accession, which will
  give further impetus and direction to structural reform. Moves to
  complete banking, telecommunications and energy privatization will
  add to foreign investment, while intensified restructuring among
  large enterprises and banks and improvements in the financial sector
  should strengthen output growth.

Denmark:
  This thoroughly modern market economy features high-tech
  agriculture, up-to-date small-scale and corporate industry,
  extensive government welfare measures, comfortable living standards,
  and high dependence on foreign trade. Denmark is a net exporter of
  food and energy and has a comfortable balance of payments surplus.
  The center-left coalition government has reduced the formerly high
  unemployment rate and attained a budget surplus as well as followed
  the previous government's policies of maintaining low inflation and
  a stable currency. The coalition has lowered marginal income tax
  rates and raised environmental taxes thus maintaining overall tax
  revenues. Problems of bottlenecks, and longer term demographic
  changes reducing the labor force, are being addressed through labor
  market reforms. The government has been successful in meeting, and
  even exceeding, the economic convergence criteria for participating
  in the third phase (a common European currency) of the European
  Monetary Union (EMU), but Denmark, in a September 2000 referendum,
  reconfirmed its decision not to join the 11 other EU members in the
  euro. Even so, the Danish currency remains pegged to the euro.

Djibouti:
  The economy is based on service activities connected with
  the country's strategic location and status as a free trade zone in
  northeast Africa. Two-thirds of the inhabitants live in the capital
  city, the remainder being mostly nomadic herders. Scanty rainfall
  limits crop production to fruits and vegetables, and most food must
  be imported. Djibouti provides services as both a transit port for
  the region and an international transshipment and refueling center.
  It has few natural resources and little industry. The nation is,
  therefore, heavily dependent on foreign assistance to help support
  its balance of payments and to finance development projects. An
  unemployment rate of 40% to 50% continues to be a major problem.
  Inflation is not a concern, however, because of the fixed tie of the
  franc to the US dollar. Per capita consumption dropped an estimated
  35% over the last seven years because of recession, civil war, and a
  high population growth rate (including immigrants and refugees).
  Faced with a multitude of economic difficulties, the government has
  fallen in arrears on long-term external debt and has been struggling
  to meet the stipulations of foreign aid donors. The year 2001 will
  see only small growth as port activity should decrease now that
  Ethiopia has more trade route options.

Dominica:
  The economy depends on agriculture and is highly
  vulnerable to climatic conditions, notably tropical storms.
  Agriculture, primarily bananas, accounts for 21% of GDP and employs
  40% of the labor force. Development of the tourist industry remains
  difficult because of the rugged coastline, lack of beaches, and the
  lack of an international airport. Hurricane Luis devastated the
  country's banana crop in September 1995; tropical storms had wiped
  out one-quarter of the crop in 1994 as well. The subsequent recovery
  has been fueled by increases in construction, soap production, and
  tourist arrivals. The government is attempting to develop an
  offshore financial industry in order to diversify the island's
  production base.

Dominican Republic:
  The Dominican economy experienced dramatic
  growth over the last decade, even though the economy was hit hard by
  Hurricane Georges in 1998. Although the country has long been viewed
  primarily as an exporter of sugar, coffee, and tobacco, in recent
  years the service sector has overtaken agriculture as the economy's
  largest employer, due to growth in tourism and free trade zones. The
  country suffers from marked income inequality; the poorest half of
  the population receives less than one-fifth of GNP, while the
  richest ten percent enjoy 40% of national income. In December 2000,
  the new MEJIA administration passed broad new tax legislation which
  it hopes will provide enough revenue to offset rising oil prices and
  to service foreign debt.

Ecuador:
  Ecuador has substantial oil resources and rich agricultural
  areas. Because the country exports primary products such as oil,
  bananas, and shrimp, fluctuations in world market prices can have a
  substantial domestic impact. Ecuador joined the World Trade
  Organization in 1996, but has failed to comply with many of its
  accession commitments. In recent years, growth has been uneven due
  to ill-conceived fiscal stabilization measures. The aftermath of El
  Nino and depressed oil market of 1997-98 drove Ecuador's economy
  into a free-fall in 1999. The beginning of 1999 saw the banking
  sector collapse, which helped precipitate an unprecedented default
  on external loans later that year. Continued economic instability
  drove a 70% depreciation of the currency throughout 1999, which
  eventually forced a desperate government to "dollarize" the currency
  regime in 2000. The move stabilized the currency, but did not stave
  off the ouster of the government. The new president, Gustavo NOBOA
  has yet to complete negotiations for a long sought IMF accord. He
  will find it difficult to push through the reforms necessary to make
  "dollarization" work in the long run.

Egypt:
  A series of IMF arrangements - along with massive external
  debt relief resulting from Egypt's participation in the Gulf war
  coalition - helped Egypt improve its macroeconomic performance
  during the 1990s. Sound fiscal and monetary policies through the
  mid-1990s helped to tame inflation, slash budget deficits, and build
  up foreign reserves, while structural reforms such as privatization
  and new business legislation prompted increased foreign investment.
  By mid-1998, however, the pace of structural reform slackened, and
  lower combined hard currency earnings resulted in pressure on the
  Egyptian pound and sporadic US dollar shortages. External payments
  were not in crisis, but Cairo's attempts to curb demand for foreign
  exchange convinced some investors and currency traders that
  government financial operations lacked transparency and
  coordination. Monetary pressures have since eased, however, with the
  1999-2000 higher oil prices, a rebound in tourism, and a series of
  mini-devaluations of the pound. The development of a gas export
  market is a major plus factor in future growth.

El Salvador:
  El Salvador is a struggling Central American economy
  which has been suffering from a weak tax collection system, factory
  closings, the aftermaths of Hurricane Mitch of 1998 and the
  devastating earthquakes of early 2001, and weak world coffee prices.
  On the bright side, in recent years inflation has fallen to single
  digit levels, and total exports have grown substantially. The trade
  deficit has been offset by remittances (an estimated $1.6 billion in
  2000) from Salvadorans living abroad and by external aid. As of 1
  January 2001, the US dollar was made legal tender alongside the
  colon.

Equatorial Guinea:
  The discovery and exploitation of large oil
  reserves have contributed to dramatic economic growth in recent
  years. Forestry, farming, and fishing are also major components of
  GDP. Subsistence farming predominates. Although pre-independence
  Equatorial Guinea counted on cocoa production for hard currency
  earnings, the deterioration of the rural economy under successive
  brutal regimes has diminished potential for agriculture-led growth.
  A number of aid programs sponsored by the World Bank and the IMF
  have been cut off since 1993 because of the government's gross
  corruption and mismanagement. Businesses, for the most part, are
  owned by government officials and their family members. Undeveloped
  natural resources include titanium, iron ore, manganese, uranium,
  and alluvial gold. The country responded favorably to the
  devaluation of the CFA franc in January 1994. Boosts in production
  and high world oil prices stimulated growth in 2000, with oil
  accounting for 90% of greatly increased exports.

Eritrea:
  With independence from Ethiopia on 24 May 1993, Eritrea
  faced the economic problems of a small, desperately poor country.
  The economy is largely based on subsistence agriculture, with 80% of
  the population involved in farming and herding. The small industrial
  sector consists mainly of light industries with outmoded
  technologies. Domestic output (GDP) is substantially augmented by
  worker remittances from abroad. Government revenues come from custom
  duties and taxes on income and sales. Road construction is a top
  domestic priority. In the long term, Eritrea may benefit from the
  development of offshore oil, offshore fishing, and tourism.
  Eritrea's economic future depends on its ability to master
  fundamental social and economic problems, e.g., by reducing
  illiteracy, promoting job creation, expanding technical training,
  attracting foreign investment, and streamlining the bureaucracy.
  Eritrea's agriculture over the last two years was severely weakened
  by war and drought, and many farmlands must wait to be demined.
  Another major difficulty is the ports, which prior to the war were
  Ethiopia's preferred outlets but since have seen trade dry up.

Estonia:
  In 2000, Estonia rebounded from the Russian financial
  crisis by scaling back its budget and reorienting trade away from
  Russian markets into EU member states. After GDP shrank 1.1% in
  1999, the economy made a strong recovery in 2000, with growth
  estimated at 6.4% - the highest in Central and Eastern Europe.
  Estonia joined the World Trade Organization in November 1999 - the
  second Baltic state to join - and continues its EU accession talks.
  For 2001, Estonians predict GDP to grow around 6%, inflation of
  between 4.2%-5.3%, and a balanced budget. Substantial gains were
  made in completing privatization of Estonia's few remaining large,
  state-owned companies in 2000, and this momentum is expected to
  continue in 2001. Estonia hopes to join the EU during the next round
  of enlargement tentatively set for 2004.

Ethiopia:
  Ethiopia's economy is based on agriculture, which accounts
  for half of GDP, 90% of exports, and 80% of total employment. The
  agricultural sector suffers from frequent periods of drought and
  poor cultivation practices, and as many as 4.6 million people need
  food assistance annually. Coffee is critical to the Ethiopian
  economy, and Ethiopia earned $267 million in 1999 by exporting
  105,000 metric tons. According to current estimates, coffee
  contributes 10% of Ethiopia's GDP. More than 15 million people (25%
  of the population) derive their livelihood from the coffee sector.
  Other exports include live animals, hides, gold, and qat. In
  December 1999, Ethiopia signed a $1.4 billion joint venture deal to
  develop a huge natural gas field in the Somali Regional State. The
  war with Eritrea forced the government to spend scarce resources on
  the military and to scale back ambitious development plans. Foreign
  investment has declined significantly. Government taxes imposed in
  late 1999 to raise money for the war depressed an already weak
  economy. The war forced the government to improve roads and other
  parts of the previously neglected infrastructure, but only certain
  regions of the nation benefited. Recovery from the war is mostly
  contingent on natural factors. A drought has continued into the end
  of 2000 and food relief is expected to be needed through mid-2001 at
  least. Ethiopia may receive Highly Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC)
  debt relief by the end of the year.

Europa Island:
  no economic activity

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas):
  The economy was formerly based on
  agriculture, mainly sheep farming, but today fishing contributes the
  bulk of economic activity. In 1987 the government began selling
  fishing licenses to foreign trawlers operating within the Falklands
  exclusive fishing zone. These license fees total more than $40
  million per year, which goes to support the island's health,
  education, and welfare system. Squid accounts for 75% of the fish
  taken. Dairy farming supports domestic consumption; crops furnish
  winter fodder. Exports feature shipments of high-grade wool to the
  UK and the sale of postage stamps and coins. To encourage tourism,
  the Falkland Islands Development Corporation has built three lodges
  for visitors attracted by the abundant wildlife and trout fishing.
  The islands are now self-financing except for defense. The British
  Geological Survey announced a 200-mile oil exploration zone around
  the islands in 1993, and early seismic surveys suggest substantial
  reserves capable of producing 500,000 barrels per day; to date no
  exploitable site has been identified. An agreement between Argentina
  and the UK in 1995 seeks to defuse licensing and sovereignty
  conflicts that would dampen foreign interest in exploiting potential
  oil reserves.

Faroe Islands:
  The Faroese economy has had a strong performance
  since 1994, mostly as a result of increasing fish landings and high
  and stable export prices. Unemployment is falling and there are
  signs of labor shortages in several sectors. The positive economic
  development has helped the Faroese Home Rule Government produce
  increasing budget surpluses which in turn help to reduce the large
  public debt, most of it owed to Denmark. However, the total
  dependence on fishing makes the Faroese economy extremely
  vulnerable, and the present fishing efforts appear in excess of what
  is required to ensure a sustainable level of fishing in the long
  term. Oil finds close to the Faroese area give hope for deposits in
  the immediate Faroese area, which may eventually lay the basis for a
  more diversified economy and thus less dependence on Denmark and
  Danish economic assistance. Aided by a substantial annual subsidy
  (15% of GDP) from Denmark, the Faroese have a standard of living not
  far below the Danes and other Scandinavians.

Fiji:
  Fiji, endowed with forest, mineral, and fish resources, is one
  of the most developed of the Pacific island economies, though still
  with a large subsistence sector. Sugar exports and a growing tourist
  industry are the major sources of foreign exchange. Sugar processing
  makes up one-third of industrial activity. Roughly 300,000 tourists
  visit each year, including thousands of Americans following the
  start of regularly scheduled non-stop air service from Los Angeles.
  Fiji's growth slowed in 1997 because the sugar industry suffered
  from low world prices and rent disputes between farmers and
  landowners. Drought in 1998 further damaged the sugar industry, but
  its recovery in 1999 contributed to robust GDP growth. Long-term
  problems include low investment and uncertain property rights. The
  political turmoil in Fiji has had a severe impact with the economy
  shrinking by 8% in 1999 and over 7,000 people losing their jobs. The
  interim government's 2001 budget is an attempt to attract foreign
  investment and restart economic activity. The government's ability
  to manage the budget and fulfill predictions of 4% growth for 2001
  will depend on a return to stability, a regaining of investor
  confidence, and the absence of international sanctions (which could
  cripple Fiji's sugar and textile industry).

Finland:
  Finland has a highly industrialized, largely free-market
  economy, with per capita output roughly that of the UK, France,
  Germany, and Italy. Its key economic sector is manufacturing -
  principally the wood, metals, engineering, telecommunications, and
  electronics industries. Trade is important, with exports equaling
  more than one-third of GDP. Except for timber and several minerals,
  Finland depends on imports of raw materials, energy, and some
  components for manufactured goods. Because of the climate,
  agricultural development is limited to maintaining self-sufficiency
  in basic products. Forestry, an important export earner, provides a
  secondary occupation for the rural population. Rapidly increasing
  integration with Western Europe - Finland was one of the 11
  countries joining the euro monetary system (EMU) on 1 January 1999 -
  will dominate the economic picture over the next several years.
  Growth in 2001 will be bolstered by strong private consumption, yet
  may be 1 or 2 points lower than in 2000, largely because of a
  weakening in export demand.

France:
  France is in the midst of transition, from an economy that
  featured extensive government ownership and intervention to one that
  relies more on market mechanisms. The government remains dominant in
  some sectors, particularly power, public transport, and defense
  industries, but it has been relaxing its control since the
  mid-1980s. The Socialist-led government has sold off part of its
  holdings in France Telecom, Air France, Thales, Thomson Multimedia,
  and the European Aerospace and Defense Company (EADS). The
  telecommunications sector is gradually being opened to competition.
  France's leaders remain committed to a capitalism in which they
  maintain social equity by means of laws, tax policies, and social
  spending that reduce income disparity and the impact of free markets
  on public health and welfare. The government has done little to cut
  generous unemployment and retirement benefits which impose a heavy
  tax burden and discourage hiring. It has also shied from measures
  that would dramatically increase the use of stock options and
  retirement investment plans; such measures would boost the stock
  market and fast-growing IT firms as well as ease the burden on the
  pension system, but would disproportionately benefit the rich. In
  addition to the tax burden, the reduction of the work week to
  35-hours has drawn criticism for lowering the competitiveness of
  French companies.

French Guiana:
  The economy is tied closely to that of France through
  subsidies and imports. Besides the French space center at Kourou,
  fishing and forestry are the most important economic activities. The
  large reserves of tropical hardwoods, not fully exploited, support
  an expanding sawmill industry which provides sawn logs for export.
  Cultivation of crops is limited to the coastal area, where the
  population is largely concentrated; rice and manioc are the major
  crops. French Guiana is heavily dependent on imports of food and
  energy. Unemployment is a serious problem, particularly among
  younger workers.

French Polynesia:
  Since 1962, when France stationed military
  personnel in the region, French Polynesia has changed from a
  subsistence economy to one in which a high proportion of the work
  force is either employed by the military or supports the tourist
  industry. Tourism accounts for about one-fourth of GDP and is a
  primary source of hard currency earnings. The small manufacturing
  sector primarily processes agricultural products. The territory
  benefited from a five-year (1994-98) development agreement with
  France aimed principally at creating new jobs.

French Southern and Antarctic Lands:
  Economic activity is limited to
  servicing meteorological and geophysical research stations and
  French and other fishing fleets. The fish catches landed on Iles
  Kerguelen by foreign ships are exported to France and Reunion.

Gabon:
  Gabon enjoys a per capita income four times that of most
  nations of sub-Saharan Africa. This has supported a sharp decline in
  extreme poverty; yet because of high income inequality a large
  proportion of the population remains poor. Gabon depended on timber
  and manganese until oil was discovered offshore in the early 1970s.
  The oil sector now accounts for 50% of GDP. Gabon continues to face
  fluctuating prices for its oil, timber, manganese, and uranium
  exports. Despite the abundance of natural wealth, the economy is
  hobbled by poor fiscal management. In 1992, the fiscal deficit
  widened to 2.4% of GDP, and Gabon failed to settle arrears on its
  bilateral debt, leading to a cancellation of rescheduling agreements
  with official and private creditors. Devaluation of its Francophone
  currency by 50% on 12 January 1994 sparked a one-time inflationary
  surge, to 35%; the rate dropped to 6% in 1996. The IMF provided a
  one-year standby arrangement in 1994-95, a three-year Enhanced
  Financing Facility (EFF) at near commercial rates beginning in late
  1995, and stand-by credit of $119 million in October 2000. Those
  agreements mandate progress in privatization and fiscal discipline.
  France provided additional financial support in January 1997 after
  Gabon had met IMF targets for mid-1996. In 1997, an IMF mission to
  Gabon criticized the government for overspending on off-budget
  items, overborrowing from the central bank, and slipping on its
  schedule for privatization and administrative reform. The rebound of
  oil prices in 1999-2000 helped growth, but drops in production
  hampered Gabon from fully realizing potential gains. An expected
  decline in oil output may lead to contraction in GDP in 2001-02.

Gambia, The:
  The Gambia has no important mineral or other natural
  resources and has a limited agricultural base. About 75% of the
  population depends on crops and livestock for its livelihood.
  Small-scale manufacturing activity features the processing of
  peanuts, fish, and hides. Reexport trade normally constitutes a
  major segment of economic activity, but a 1999 government-imposed
  preshipment inspection plan, instability of the Gambian dalasi, and
  the stable political situation in Senegal have drawn some of the
  reexport trade away from Banjul. The government's 1998 seizure of
  the private peanut firm Alimenta eliminated the largest purchaser of
  Gambian groundnuts; the following two marketing seasons have seen
  significantly lower prices and sales. A decline in tourism from 1999
  to 2000 has also held back growth. Unemployment and underemployment
  rates are extremely high. Shortrun economic progress remains highly
  dependent on sustained bilateral and multilateral aid, on
  responsible government economic management as forwarded by IMF
  technical help and advice, and on expected growth in the
  construction sector.

Gaza Strip:
  Economic output in the Gaza Strip - which comes under
  the responsibility of the Palestinian Authority since the Cairo
  Agreement of May 1994 - declined perhaps one-third between 1992 and
  1996. The downturn was largely the result of Israeli closure
  policies - the imposition of generalized border closures in response
  to security incidents in Israel - which disrupted previously
  established labor and commodity market relationships between Israel
  and the WBGS (West Bank and Gaza Strip). The most serious negative
  social effect of this downturn was the emergence of high
  unemployment; unemployment in the WBGS during the 1980s was
  generally under 5%; by 1995 it had risen to over 20%. Since 1997
  Israel's use of comprehensive closures has decreased and, in 1998,
  Israel implemented new policies to reduce the impact of closures and
  other security procedures on the movement of Palestinian goods and
  labor. These changes fueled an almost three-year long economic
  recovery in the West Bank and Gaza Strip; real GDP grew by 5% in
  1998 and 6% in 1999. Recovery was upended in the last quarter of
  2000 with the outbreak of Palestinian violence, which triggered
  tight Israeli closures of Palestinian self-rule areas and a severe
  disruption of trade and labor movements.

Georgia:
  Georgia's economy has traditionally revolved around Black
  Sea tourism; cultivation of citrus fruits, tea, and grapes; mining
  of manganese and copper; and output of a small industrial sector
  producing wine, metals, machinery, chemicals, and textiles. The
  country imports the bulk of its energy needs, including natural gas
  and oil products. Its only sizable internal energy resource is
  hydropower. Despite the severe damage the economy has suffered due
  to civil strife, Georgia, with the help of the IMF and World Bank,
  has made substantial economic gains since 1995, increasing GDP
  growth and slashing inflation. The Georgian economy continues to
  experience large budget deficits due to a failure to collect tax
  revenues. Georgia also still suffers from energy shortages; it
  privatized the distribution network in 1998, and deliveries are
  steadily improving. The country is pinning its hopes for long-term
  recovery on the development of an international transportation
  corridor through the key Black Sea ports of P'ot'i and Bat'umi. The
  growing trade deficit, continuing problems with tax evasion and
  corruption, and political uncertainties cloud the short-term
  economic picture.

Germany:
  Germany possesses the world's third most technologically
  powerful economy after the US and Japan, but structural market
  rigidities - including the substantial non-wage costs of hiring new
  workers - have made unemployment a long-term, not just a cyclical,
  problem. Germany's aging population, combined with high
  unemployment, has pushed social security outlays to a level
  exceeding contributions from workers. The modernization and
  integration of the eastern German economy remains a costly long-term
  problem, with annual transfers from western Germany amounting to
  roughly $70 billion. Growth picked up to 3% in 2000, largely due to
  recovering global demand; newly passed business and income tax cuts
  are expected to keep growth strong in 2001. Corporate restructuring
  and growing capital markets are transforming the German economy to
  meet the challenges of European economic integration and
  globalization in general.

Ghana:
  Well endowed with natural resources, Ghana has twice the per
  capita output of the poorer countries in West Africa. Even so, Ghana
  remains heavily dependent on international financial and technical
  assistance. Gold, timber, and cocoa production are major sources of
  foreign exchange. The domestic economy continues to revolve around
  subsistence agriculture, which accounts for 36% of GDP and employs
  60% of the work force, mainly small landholders. In 1995-97, Ghana
  made mixed progress under a three-year structural adjustment program
  in cooperation with the IMF. On the minus side, public sector wage
  increases and regional peacekeeping commitments have led to
  continued inflationary deficit financing, depreciation of the cedi,
  and rising public discontent with Ghana's austerity measures.
  Political uncertainty and a depressed cocoa market led to
  disappointing growth in 2000. A rebound in the cocoa market should
  push growth over 4% in 2001-02.

Gibraltar:
  Gibraltar benefits from an extensive shipping trade,
  offshore banking, and its position as an international conference
  center. The British military presence has been sharply reduced and
  now contributes about 11% to the local economy. The financial sector
  accounts for 20% of GDP; tourism (almost 6 million visitors in
  1998), shipping services fees, and duties on consumer goods also
  generate revenue. In recent years, Gibraltar has seen major
  structural change from a public to a private sector economy, but
  changes in government spending still have a major impact on the
  level of employment.

Glorioso Islands:
  no economic activity

Greece:
  Greece has a mixed capitalist economy with the public sector
  accounting for about half of GDP. Tourism is a key industry,
  providing a large portion of GDP and foreign exchange earnings.
  Greece is a major beneficiary of EU aid, equal to about 4% of GDP.
  The economy has improved steadily over the last few years, as the
  government has tightened policy in the run-up to Greece's entry into
  the EU's Economic and Monetary Union (EMU) on 1 January 2001. In
  particular, Greece has cut its budget deficit to below 1% of GDP and
  tightened monetary policy, with the result that inflation fell from
  20% in 1990 to 3.1% in 2000. Major challenges remaining include the
  reduction of unemployment and further restructuring of the economy,
  including the privatization of some leading state enterprises.
  Growth, 3.8% in 2000, may fall off to 3%-3.5% in 2001.

Greenland:
  The economy remains critically dependent on exports of
  fish and substantial support from the Danish Government, which
  supplies about half of government revenues. The public sector,
  including publicly owned enterprises and the municipalities, plays
  the dominant role in the economy. Despite several interesting
  hydrocarbon and minerals exploration activities, it will take
  several years before production can materialize. Tourism is the only
  sector offering any near-term potential, and even this is limited
  due to a short season and high costs.

Grenada:
  In this island economy progress in fiscal reforms and
  prudent macroeconomic management have kept annual growth steady
  since 1998. The increase in economic activity has been led by
  construction and trade. Tourist facilities are being expanded;
  tourism is the leading foreign exchange earner. Major short-term
  concerns are the rising fiscal deficit and the deterioration in the
  external account balance. Grenada shares a common central bank and a
  common currency with seven other members of the Organization of
  Eastern Caribbean States (OECS).

Guadeloupe:
  The economy depends on agriculture, tourism, light
  industry, and services. It also depends on France for large
  subsidies and imports. Tourism is a key industry, with most tourists
  from the US; an increasingly large number of cruise ships visit the
  islands. The traditional sugarcane crop is slowly being replaced by
  other crops, such as bananas (which now supply about 50% of export
  earnings), eggplant, and flowers. Other vegetables and root crops
  are cultivated for local consumption, although Guadeloupe is still
  dependent on imported food, mainly from France. Light industry
  features sugar and rum production. Most manufactured goods and fuel
  are imported. Unemployment is especially high among the young.
  Hurricanes periodically devastate the economy.

Guam:
  The economy depends on US military spending, tourism, and the
  export of fish and handicrafts. Total US grants, wage payments, and
  procurement outlays amounted to $1 billion in 1998. Over the past 20
  years, the tourist industry has grown rapidly, creating a
  construction boom for new hotels and the expansion of older ones.
  More than 1 million tourists visit Guam each year. The industry has
  recently suffered setbacks because of the continuing Japanese
  slowdown; the Japanese normally make up almost 90% of the tourists.
  Most food and industrial goods are imported. Guam faces the problem
  of building up the civilian economic sector to offset the impact of
  military downsizing.

Guatemala:
  The agricultural sector accounts for about one-fourth of
  GDP, two-thirds of exports, and half of the labor force. Coffee,
  sugar, and bananas are the main products. Former President ARZU
  (1996-2000) worked to implement a program of economic liberalization
  and political modernization. The 1996 signing of the peace accords,
  which ended 36 years of civil war, removed a major obstacle to
  foreign investment. In 1998, Hurricane Mitch caused relatively
  little damage to Guatemala compared to its neighbors. Ongoing
  challenges include increasing government revenues, negotiating
  further assistance from international donors, and increasing the
  efficiency and openness of both government and private financial
  operations. Despite low international prices for Guatemala's main
  commodities, the economy grew by 3% in 2000 and is forecast to grow
  by 4% in 2001. Guatemala, along with Honduras and El Salvador,
  recently concluded a free trade agreement with Mexico and has moved
  to protect international property rights. However, the PORTILLO
  administration has undertaken a review of privatizations under the
  previous administration, thereby creating some uncertainty among
  investors.

Guernsey:
  Financial services - banking, fund management, insurance,
  etc. - account for about 55% of total income in this tiny Channel
  Island economy. Tourism, manufacturing, and horticulture, mainly
  tomatoes and cut flowers, have been declining. Light tax and death
  duties make Guernsey a popular tax haven. The evolving economic
  integration of the EU nations is changing the rules of the game
  under which Guernsey operates.

Guinea:
  Guinea possesses major mineral, hydropower, and agricultural
  resources, yet remains a poor underdeveloped nation. The country
  possesses over 30% of the world's bauxite reserves and is the second
  largest bauxite producer. The mining sector accounted for about 75%
  of exports in 1999. Long-run improvements in government fiscal
  arrangements, literacy, and the legal framework are needed if the
  country is to move out of poverty. The government made encouraging
  progress in budget management in 1997-99, and reform progress was
  praised in the World Bank/IMF October 2000 assessment. However,
  escalating fighting along the Sierra Leonean and Liberian borders
  will cause major economic disruptions. In addition to direct defense
  costs, the violence has led to a sharp decline in investor
  confidence. Foreign mining companies have reduced expatriate staff,
  while panic buying has created food shortages and inflation in local
  markets. Real GDP growth is expected to fall to 2% in 2001.

Guinea-Bissau:
  One of the 20 poorest countries in the world,
  Guinea-Bissau depends mainly on farming and fishing. Cashew crops
  have increased remarkably in recent years, and the country now ranks
  sixth in cashew production. Guinea-Bissau exports fish and seafood
  along with small amounts of peanuts, palm kernels, and timber. Rice
  is the major crop and staple food. However, intermittent fighting
  between Senegalese-backed government troops and a military junta
  destroyed much of the country's infrastructure and caused widespread
  damage to the economy in 1998; the civil war led to a 28% drop in
  GDP that year, with partial recovery in 1999-2000. Before the war,
  trade reform and price liberalization were the most successful part
  of the country's structural adjustment program under IMF
  sponsorship. The tightening of monetary policy and the development
  of the private sector had also begun to reinvigorate the economy.
  Because of high costs, the development of petroleum, phosphate, and
  other mineral resources is not a near-term prospect. However,
  unexploited offshore oil reserves could provide much-needed revenue
  in the long run.

Guyana:
  Severe drought and political turmoil contributed to Guyana's
  negative growth of -1.8% for 1998 following six straight years of
  growth of 5% or better. Growth came back to a positive 1.8% in 1999
  and 3% in 2000. Underlying growth factors have included expansion in
  the key agricultural and mining sectors, a more favorable atmosphere
  for business initiative, a more realistic exchange rate, a moderate
  inflation rate, and continued support by international
  organizations. President JAGDEO, the former finance minister, is
  taking steps to reform the economy, including drafting an investment
  code and restructuring the inefficient and unresponsive public
  sector. Problems include a shortage of skilled labor and a deficient
  infrastructure. The government must persist in efforts to manage its
  sizable external debt and attract new investment.

Haiti:
  About 80% of the population lives in abject poverty. Nearly
  70% of all Haitians depend on the agriculture sector, which consists
  mainly of small-scale subsistence farming and employs about
  two-thirds of the economically active work force. The country has
  experienced little job creation since the former President PREVAL
  took office in February 1996, although the informal economy is
  growing. Following legislative elections in May 2000, fraught with
  irregularities, international donors - including the US and EU -
  suspended almost all aid to Haiti. This destabilized the Haitian
  currency, the gourde, and, combined with a 40% fuel price hike in
  September, caused widespread price increases. Prices appear to have
  leveled off in January 2001.

Heard Island and McDonald Islands:
  no economic activity

Holy See (Vatican City):
  This unique, noncommercial economy is
  supported financially by contributions (known as Peter's Pence) from
  Roman Catholics throughout the world, the sale of postage stamps and
  tourist mementos, fees for admission to museums, and the sale of
  publications. The incomes and living standards of lay workers are
  comparable to, or somewhat better than, those of counterparts who
  work in the city of Rome.

Honduras:
  Honduras, one of the poorest countries in the Western
  Hemisphere, is banking on expanded trade privileges under the
  Enhanced Caribbean Basin Initiative and on debt relief under the
  Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) initiative. While
  reconstruction from 1998's Hurricane Mitch is at an advanced stage,
  and the country has met most of its macroeconomic targets, it failed
  to meet the IMF's goals to liberalize its energy and
  telecommunications sectors. Economic growth has rebounded nicely
  since the hurricane and should continue in 2001.

Hong Kong:
  Hong Kong has a bustling free market economy highly
  dependent on international trade. Natural resources are limited, and
  food and raw materials must be imported. Indeed, imports and
  exports, including reexports, each exceed GDP in dollar value. Even
  before Hong Kong reverted to Chinese administration on 1 July 1997
  it had extensive trade and investment ties with China. Per capita
  GDP compares with the level in the four big countries of Western
  Europe. GDP growth averaged a strong 5% in 1989-97. The widespread
  Asian economic difficulties in 1998 hit this trade-dependent economy
  quite hard, with GDP down 5%. The economy is undergoing a rapid
  recovery, with growth of 10% in 2000 to be followed by projected
  growth of 5% in 2001.

Howland Island:
  no economic activity

Hungary:
  Hungary continues to demonstrate strong economic growth and
  to work toward accession to the European Union. The private sector
  accounts for over 80% of GDP. Foreign ownership of and investment in
  Hungarian firms is widespread, with cumulative foreign direct
  investment totaling $23 billion by 2000. Hungarian sovereign debt
  was upgraded in 2000 to the second-highest rating among all the
  Central European transition economies. Inflation - a top economic
  concern in 2000 - is still high at almost 10%, pushed upward by
  higher world oil and gas and domestic food prices. Economic reform
  measures such as health care reform, tax reform, and local
  government financing have not yet been addressed by the ORBAN
  government.

Iceland:
  Iceland's Scandinavian-type economy is basically
  capitalistic, yet with an extensive welfare system, low
  unemployment, and remarkably even distribution of income. In the
  absence of other natural resources (except for abundant hydrothermal
  and geothermal power), the economy depends heavily on the fishing
  industry, which provides 70% of export earnings and employs 12% of
  the work force. The economy remains sensitive to declining fish
  stocks as well as to drops in world prices for its main exports:
  fish and fish products, aluminum, and ferrosilicon. The center-right
  government plans to continue its policies of reducing the budget and
  current account deficits, limiting foreign borrowing, containing
  inflation, revising agricultural and fishing policies, diversifying
  the economy, and privatizing state-owned industries. The government
  remains opposed to EU membership, primarily because of Icelanders'
  concern about losing control over their fishing resources. Iceland's
  economy has been diversifying into manufacturing and service
  industries in the last decade, and new developments in software
  production, biotechnology, and financial services are taking place.
  The tourism sector is also expanding, with the recent trends in
  ecotourism and whale watching. Growth has been remarkably steady
  over the past five years at 4%-5%.

India:
  India's economy encompasses traditional village farming,
  modern agriculture, handicrafts, a wide range of modern industries,
  and a multitude of support services. More than a third of the
  population is too poor to be able to afford an adequate diet.
  India's international payments position remained strong in 2000 with
  adequate foreign exchange reserves, moderately depreciating nominal
  exchange rates, and booming exports of software services. Growth in
  manufacturing output slowed, and electricity shortages continue in
  many regions.

Indian Ocean:
  The Indian Ocean provides major sea routes connecting
  the Middle East, Africa, and East Asia with Europe and the Americas.
  It carries a particularly heavy traffic of petroleum and petroleum
  products from the oilfields of the Persian Gulf and Indonesia. Its
  fish are of great and growing importance to the bordering countries
  for domestic consumption and export. Fishing fleets from Russia,
  Japan, South Korea, and Taiwan also exploit the Indian Ocean, mainly
  for shrimp and tuna. Large reserves of hydrocarbons are being tapped
  in the offshore areas of Saudi Arabia, Iran, India, and western
  Australia. An estimated 40% of the world's offshore oil production
  comes from the Indian Ocean. Beach sands rich in heavy minerals and
  offshore placer deposits are actively exploited by bordering
  countries, particularly India, South Africa, Indonesia, Sri Lanka,
  and Thailand.

Indonesia:
  Indonesia, a vast polyglot nation, faces severe economic
  problems, stemming from secessionist movements and the low level of
  security in the regions, the lack of reliable legal recourse in
  contract disputes, corruption, weaknesses in the banking system, and
  strained relations with the IMF. Investor confidence will remain low
  and few new jobs will be created under these circumstances. Growth
  of 4.8% in 2000 is not sustainable, being attributable to favorable
  short-term factors, including high world oil prices, a surge in
  nonoil exports, and increased domestic demand for consumer durables.

Iran:
  Iran's economy is a mixture of central planning, state
  ownership of oil and other large enterprises, village agriculture,
  and small-scale private trading and service ventures. President
  KHATAMI has continued to follow the market reform plans of former
  President RAFSANJANI and has indicated that he will pursue
  diversification of Iran's oil-reliant economy although he has made
  little progress toward that goal. The strong oil market in 1996
  helped ease financial pressures on Iran and allowed for Tehran's
  timely debt service payments. Iran's financial situation tightened
  in 1997 and deteriorated further in 1998 because of lower oil
  prices. The subsequent zoom in oil prices in 1999-2000 afforded Iran
  fiscal breathing room but does not solve Iran's structural economic
  problems, including the encouragement of foreign investment.

Iraq:
  Iraq's economy is dominated by the oil sector, which has
  traditionally provided about 95% of foreign exchange earnings. In
  the 1980s, financial problems caused by massive expenditures in the
  eight-year war with Iran and damage to oil export facilities by Iran
  led the government to implement austerity measures, borrow heavily,
  and later reschedule foreign debt payments; Iraq suffered economic
  losses of at least $100 billion from the war. After the end of
  hostilities in 1988, oil exports gradually increased with the
  construction of new pipelines and restoration of damaged facilities.
  Iraq's seizure of Kuwait in August 1990, subsequent international
  economic sanctions, and damage from military action by an
  international coalition beginning in January 1991 drastically
  reduced economic activity. Although government policies supporting
  large military and internal security forces and allocating resources
  to key supporters of the regime have hurt the economy,
  implementation of the UN's oil-for-food program in December 1996 has
  helped improve conditions for the average Iraqi citizen. For the
  first six, six-month phases of the program, Iraq was allowed to
  export limited amounts of oil in exchange for food, medicine, and
  some infrastructure spare parts. In December 1999, the UN Security
  Council authorized Iraq to export under the program as much oil as
  required to meet humanitarian needs. Oil exports are now more than
  three-quarters their prewar level. Per capita food imports have
  increased significantly, while medical supplies and health care
  services are steadily improving. Per capita output and living
  standards are still well below the prewar level, but any estimates
  have a wide range of error.

Ireland:
  Ireland is a small, modern, trade-dependent economy with
  growth averaging a robust 9% in 1995-2000. Agriculture, once the
  most important sector, is now dwarfed by industry, which accounts
  for 38% of GDP and about 80% of exports and employs 28% of the labor
  force. Although exports remain the primary engine for Ireland's
  robust growth, the economy is also benefiting from a rise in
  consumer spending and recovery in both construction and business
  investment. Over the past decade, the Irish government has
  implemented a series of national economic programs designed to curb
  inflation, reduce government spending, increase labor force skills,
  and promote foreign investment. Ireland joined in launching the euro
  currency system in January 1999 along with 10 other EU nations. The
  Irish economy is in danger of overheating, with the tight labor
  market driving up wage demands and inflation.

Israel:
  Israel has a technologically advanced market economy with
  substantial government participation. It depends on imports of crude
  oil, grains, raw materials, and military equipment. Despite limited
  natural resources, Israel has intensively developed its agricultural
  and industrial sectors over the past 20 years. Israel is largely
  self-sufficient in food production except for grains. Cuts diamonds,
  high-technology equipment, and agricultural products (fruits and
  vegetables) are the leading exports. Israel usually posts sizable
  current account deficits, which are covered by large transfer
  payments from abroad and by foreign loans. Roughly half of the
  government's external debt is owed to the US, which is its major
  source of economic and military aid. The influx of Jewish immigrants
  from the former USSR topped 750,000 during the period 1989-99,
  bringing the population of Israel from the former Soviet Union to 1
  million, one-sixth of the total population, and adding scientific
  and professional expertise of substantial value for the economy's
  future. The influx, coupled with the opening of new markets at the
  end of the Cold War, energized Israel's economy, which grew rapidly
  in the early 1990s. But growth began moderating in 1996 when the
  government imposed tighter fiscal and monetary policies and the
  immigration bonus petered out. Growth was a strong 5.9% in 2000. But
  the outbreak of Palestinian unrest in late September and the
  collapse of the BARAK Government - coupled with a cooling off in the
  high-technology and tourist sectors - undercut the boom and
  foreshadows a slowdown to 2%-3% in 2001.

Italy:
  Italy has a diversified industrial economy with roughly the
  same total and per capita output as France and the UK. This
  capitalistic economy remains divided into a developed industrial
  north, dominated by private companies, and a less developed
  agricultural south, with more than 20% unemployment. Most raw
  materials needed by industry and more than 75% of energy
  requirements are imported. Since 1992, Italy has adopted budgets
  compliant with the requirements of the European Monetary Union
  (EMU); wage moderation agreements by representatives of government,
  labor, and employers have helped to bring Italy's inflation into
  conformity with EMU requirements. Italy's economic performance,
  however, has lagged behind that of its EU partners and it must work
  to stimulate employment, promote labor flexibility, reform its
  expensive pension system, and tackle the informal economy.

Jamaica:
  Key sectors in this island economy are bauxite (alumina and
  bauxite account for more than half of exports) and tourism. Since
  assuming office in 1992, Prime Minister PATTERSON has eliminated
  most price controls, streamlined tax schedules, and privatized
  government enterprises. Continued tight monetary and fiscal policies
  have helped slow inflation - although inflationary pressures are
  mounting - and stabilize the exchange rate, but have resulted in the
  slowdown of economic growth (moving from 1.5% in 1992 to 0.5% in
  1995). In 1996, GDP showed negative growth (-1.4%) and remained
  negative through 1999. Serious problems include: high interest
  rates; increased foreign competition; the weak financial condition
  of business in general resulting in receiverships or closures and
  downsizings of companies; the shift in investment portfolios to
  non-productive, short-term high yield instruments; a pressured,
  sometimes sliding, exchange rate; a widening merchandise trade
  deficit; and a growing internal debt for government bailouts to
  various ailing sectors of the economy, particularly the financial
  sector. Depressed economic conditions in 1999-2000 led to increased
  civil unrest, including a mounting crime rate. Jamaica's medium-term
  prospects will depend upon encouraging investment in the productive
  sectors, maintaining a competitive exchange rate, stabilizing the
  labor environment, selling off reacquired firms, and implementing
  proper fiscal and monetary policies.

Jan Mayen:
  Jan Mayen is a volcanic island with no exploitable
  natural resources. Economic activity is limited to providing
  services for employees of Norway's radio and meteorological stations
  located on the island.

Japan:
  Government-industry cooperation, a strong work ethic, mastery
  of high technology, and a comparatively small defense allocation (1%
  of GDP) have helped Japan advance with extraordinary rapidity to the
  rank of second most technologically powerful economy in the world
  after the US and third largest economy in the world after the US and
  China. One notable characteristic of the economy is the working
  together of manufacturers, suppliers, and distributors in
  closely-knit groups called keiretsu. A second basic feature has been
  the guarantee of lifetime employment for a substantial portion of
  the urban labor force. Both features are now eroding. Industry, the
  most important sector of the economy, is heavily dependent on
  imported raw materials and fuels. The much smaller agricultural
  sector is highly subsidized and protected, with crop yields among
  the highest in the world. Usually self-sufficient in rice, Japan
  must import about 50% of its requirements of other grain and fodder
  crops. Japan maintains one of the world's largest fishing fleets and
  accounts for nearly 15% of the global catch. For three decades
  overall real economic growth had been spectacular: a 10% average in
  the 1960s, a 5% average in the 1970s, and a 4% average in the 1980s.
  Growth slowed markedly in the 1990s largely because of the
  aftereffects of overinvestment during the late 1980s and
  contractionary domestic policies intended to wring speculative
  excesses from the stock and real estate markets. Government efforts
  to revive economic growth have met little success and were further
  hampered in late 2000 by the slowing of the US and Asian economies.
  The crowding of habitable land area and the aging of the population
  are two major long-run problems. Robotics constitutes a key
  long-term economic strength, with Japan possessing 410,000 of the
  world's 720,000 "working robots".

Jarvis Island:
  no economic activity

Jersey:
  The economy is based largely on international financial
  services, agriculture, and tourism. Potatoes, cauliflower, tomatoes,
  and especially flowers are important export crops, shipped mostly to
  the UK. The Jersey breed of dairy cattle is known worldwide and
  represents an important export income earner. Milk products go to
  the UK and other EU countries. In 1996 the finance sector accounted
  for about 60% of the island's output. Tourism, another mainstay of
  the economy, accounts for 24% of GDP. In recent years, the
  government has encouraged light industry to locate in Jersey, with
  the result that an electronics industry has developed alongside the
  traditional manufacturing of knitwear. All raw material and energy
  requirements are imported, as well as a large share of Jersey's food
  needs. Light taxes and death duties make the island a popular tax
  haven.

Johnston Atoll:
  Economic activity is limited to providing services
  to US military personnel and contractors located on the island. All
  food and manufactured goods must be imported.

Jordan:
  Jordan is a small Arab country with inadequate supplies of
  water and other natural resources such as oil. The Persian Gulf
  crisis, which began in August 1990, aggravated Jordan's already
  serious economic problems, forcing the government to stop most debt
  payments and suspend rescheduling negotiations. Aid from Gulf Arab
  states, worker remittances, and trade revenues contracted. Refugees
  flooded the country, producing serious balance-of-payments problems,
  stunting GDP growth, and straining government resources. The economy
  rebounded in 1992, largely due to the influx of capital repatriated
  by workers returning from the Gulf. After averaging 9% in 1992-95,
  GDP growth averaged only 1.5% during 1996-99. In an attempt to spur
  growth, King ABDALLAH has undertaken limited economic reform,
  including partial privatization of some state-owned enterprises and
  Jordan's entry in January 2000 into the World Trade Organization
  (WTrO). Debt, poverty, and unemployment are fundamental ongoing
  economic problems.

Juan de Nova Island:
  Up to 12,000 tons of guano are mined per year.

Kazakhstan:
  Kazakhstan, the second largest of the former Soviet
  republics in territory, possesses enormous fossil fuel reserves as
  well as plentiful supplies of other minerals and metals. It also is
  a large agricultural - livestock and grain - producer. Kazakhstan's
  industrial sector rests on the extraction and processing of these
  natural resources and also on a growing machine-building sector
  specializing in construction equipment, tractors, agricultural
  machinery, and some defense items. The breakup of the USSR in
  December 1991 and the collapse of demand for Kazakhstan's
  traditional heavy industry products resulted in a short-term
  contraction of the economy, with the steepest annual decline
  occurring in 1994. In 1995-97, the pace of the government program of
  economic reform and privatization quickened, resulting in a
  substantial shifting of assets into the private sector. The Caspian
  Pipeline Consortium agreement to build a new pipeline from western
  Kazakhstan's Tengiz oil field to the Black Sea increases prospects
  for substantially larger oil exports in several years. Kazakhstan's
  economy again turned downward in 1998 with a 2% decline in GDP due
  to slumping oil prices and the August financial crisis in Russia.
  The recovery of international oil prices in 1999, combined with a
  well-timed tenge devaluation and a bumper grain harvest, pulled the
  economy out of recession in 2000. Astana has embarked upon an
  industrial policy designed to diversify the economy away from
  overdependence on the oil sector by developing light industry.

Kenya:
  Kenya is well placed to serve as an engine of growth in East
  Africa, but its economy has been stagnating because of poor
  management and uneven commitment to reform. In 1993, the government
  of Kenya implemented a program of economic liberalization and reform
  that included the removal of import licensing, price controls, and
  foreign exchange controls. With the support of the World Bank, IMF,
  and other donors, the reforms led to a brief turnaround in economic
  performance following a period of negative growth in the early
  1990s. Kenya's real GDP grew 5% in 1995 and 4% in 1996, and
  inflation remained under control. Growth slowed after 1997,
  averaging only 1.5% in 1997-2000. In 1997, political violence
  damaged the tourist industry, and Kenya's Enhanced Structural
  Adjustment Program lapsed due to the government's failure to
  maintain reform or address public sector corruption. Severe drought
  in 1999 and 2000 caused water and energy rationing and reduced
  agricultural sector productivity. A new economic team was put in
  place in 1999 to revitalize the reform effort, strengthen the civil
  service, and curb corruption. The IMF and World Bank renewed their
  support to Kenya in mid-2000, but a number of setbacks to the
  economic reform program in late 2000 have renewed donor and private
  sector concern about the government's commitment to sound
  governance. Long-term barriers to development include electricity
  shortages, inefficient government dominance of key sectors, endemic
  corruption, and high population growth.

Kingman Reef:
  no economic activity

Kiribati:
  A remote country of 33 scattered coral atolls, Kiribati
  has few national resources. Commercially viable phosphate deposits
  were exhausted at the time of independence from the UK in 1979.
  Copra and fish now represent the bulk of production and exports. The
  economy has fluctuated widely in recent years. Economic development
  is constrained by a shortage of skilled workers, weak
  infrastructure, and remoteness from international markets. Tourism
  provides more than one-fifth of GDP. The financial sector is at an
  early stage of development as is the expansion of private sector
  initiatives. Foreign financial aid, largely from the UK and Japan,
  is a critical supplement to GDP, equal to 25%-50% of GDP in recent
  years. Remittances from workers abroad account for more than $5
  million each year. Performance in 2000 fell short of the 2.5% growth
  in 1999, which benefited from increased copra production and
  exceptionally large revenues from fishing licenses.

Korea, North:
  North Korea, one of the world's most centrally planned
  and isolated economies, faces desperate economic conditions.
  Industrial capital stock is nearly beyond repair as a result of
  years of underinvestment and spare parts shortages. The nation faces
  its seventh year of food shortages because of weather-related
  problems, including major drought in 2000, and chronic shortages of
  fertilizer and fuel. Massive international food aid deliveries have
  allowed the regime to escape the major consequence of spreading
  economic failure, such as mass starvation, but the population
  remains vulnerable to prolonged malnutrition and deteriorating
  living conditions. Large-scale military spending eats up resources
  needed for expanding investment and consumption goods. In 2000, the
  regime placed emphasis on expanding foreign trade links, embracing
  modern technology, and attracting foreign investment, but in no way
  at the expense of relinquishing central control over key national
  assets or undergoing market-oriented reforms.

Korea, South:
  As one of the Four Dragons of East Asia, South Korea
  has achieved an incredible record of growth. Three decades ago GDP
  per capita was comparable with levels in the poorer countries of
  Africa and Asia. Today its GDP per capita is seven times India's, 16
  times North Korea's, and comparable to the lesser economies of the
  European Union. This success through the late 1980s was achieved by
  a system of close government/business ties, including directed
  credit, import restrictions, sponsorship of specific industries, and
  a strong labor effort. The government promoted the import of raw
  materials and technology at the expense of consumer goods and
  encouraged savings and investment over consumption. The Asian
  financial crisis of 1997-99 exposed certain longstanding weaknesses
  in South Korea's development model, including high debt/equity
  ratios, massive foreign borrowing, and an undisciplined financial
  sector. By 1999 GDP growth had recovered, reversing the substantial
  decline of 1998. Seoul has pressed the country's largest business
  groups to restructure and to strengthen their financial base. Growth
  in 2001 likely will be a more sustainable rate of 5%.

Kuwait:
  Kuwait is a small, relatively open economy with proved crude
  oil reserves of about 94 billion barrels - 10% of world reserves.
  Petroleum accounts for nearly half of GDP, 90% of export revenues,
  and 75% of government income. Kuwait's climate limits agricultural
  development. Consequently, with the exception of fish, it depends
  almost wholly on food imports. About 75% of potable water must be
  distilled or imported. Higher oil prices put the FY99/00 budget into
  a $2 billion surplus. The FY00/01 budget covers only nine months
  because of a change in the fiscal year. The budget for FY01/02,
  which begins 1 April, contains higher expenditures for salaries,
  construction, and other general categories. Kuwait continues its
  discussions with foreign oil companies to develop fields in the
  northern part of the country.

Kyrgyzstan:
  Kyrgyzstan is a small, poor, mountainous country with a
  predominantly agricultural economy. Cotton, wool, and meat are the
  main agricultural products and exports. Industrial exports include
  gold, mercury, uranium, and electricity. Kyrgyzstan has been one of
  the most progressive countries of the former Soviet Union in
  carrying out market reforms. Following a successful stabilization
  program, which lowered inflation from 88% in 1994 to 15% for 1997,
  attention is turning toward stimulating growth. Much of the
  government's stock in enterprises has been sold. Drops in production
  had been severe since the breakup of the Soviet Union in December
  1991, but by mid-1995 production began to recover and exports began
  to increase. Pensioners, unemployed workers, and government workers
  with salary arrears continue to suffer. Foreign assistance played a
  substantial role in the country's economic turnaround in 1996-97.
  Growth was held down to 2.1% in 1998 largely because of the
  spillover from Russia's economic difficulties, but moved ahead to
  3.6% in 1999 and an estimated 5.7% in 2000. The government has
  adopted a series of measures to combat such persistent problems as
  excessive external debt, inflation, and inadequate revenue
  collection.

Laos:
  The government of Laos - one of the few remaining official
  communist states - began decentralizing control and encouraging
  private enterprise in 1986. The results, starting from an extremely
  low base, were striking - growth averaged 7% during 1988-97. Reform
  efforts subsequently slowed, and GDP growth dropped an average of 3
  percentage points. Because Laos depends heavily on its trade with
  Thailand, it was damaged by the regional financial crisis beginning
  in 1997. Government mismanagement deepened the crisis, and from June
  1997 to June 1999 the Lao kip lost 87% of its value. Laos' foreign
  exchange problems peaked in September 1999 when the kip fell from
  3,500 kip to the dollar to 9,000 kip to the dollar in a matter of
  weeks. Now that the currency has stabilized, however, the government
  seems content to let the current situation persist, despite limited
  government revenue and foreign exchange reserves. A landlocked
  country with a primitive infrastructure, Laos has no railroads, a
  rudimentary road system, and limited external and internal
  telecommunications. Electricity is available in only a few urban
  areas. Subsistence agriculture accounts for half of GDP and provides
  80% of total employment. For the foreseeable future the economy will
  continue to depend on aid from the IMF and other international
  sources; Japan is currently the largest bilateral aid donor; aid
  from the former USSR/Eastern Europe has been cut sharply.

Latvia:
  In 2000, Latvia's transitional economy recovered from the
  1998 Russian financial crisis, largely due to the SKELE government's
  budget stringency and a gradual reorientation of exports toward EU
  countries, lessening Latvia's trade dependency on Russia. Latvia
  officially joined the World Trade Organization in February 1999 -
  the first Baltic state to join - and was invited at the Helsinki EU
  Summit in December 1999 to begin accession talks in early 2000.
  Unemployment fell to 7.8% in 2000, down from 9.6% in 1999, and 9.2%
  in 1998. Privatization of large state-owned utilities and the
  shipping industry faced more delays in 2000, and political
  instability will continue to delay completion of the privatization
  process over the next year. Latvia projects 6% GDP growth, 2.5%-3.0%
  inflation, and a 1.7% fiscal deficit in 2001. Preparing for EU
  membership over the next few years remains a top foreign policy goal.

Lebanon:
  The 1975-91 civil war seriously damaged Lebanon's economic
  infrastructure, cut national output by half, and all but ended
  Lebanon's position as a Middle Eastern entrepot and banking hub.
  Peace enabled the central government to restore control in Beirut,
  begin collecting taxes, and regain access to key port and government
  facilities. Economic recovery was helped by a financially sound
  banking system and resilient small- and medium-scale manufacturers.
  Family remittances, banking services, manufactured and farm exports,
  and international aid provided the main sources of foreign exchange.
  Lebanon's economy has made impressive gains since the launch in 1993
  of "Horizon 2000," the government's $20 billion reconstruction
  program. Real GDP grew 8% in 1994, 7% in 1995, 4% per year in 1996
  and 1997 but slowed to 2% in 1998, -1% in 1999, and 1% in 2000.
  Annual inflation fell during the course of the 1990s from more than
  100% to 0%, and foreign exchange reserves jumped from $1.4 billion
  to more than $6 billion. Burgeoning capital inflows have generated
  foreign payments surpluses, and the Lebanese pound has remained very
  stable for the past two years. Lebanon has rebuilt much of its
  war-torn physical and financial infrastructure. Solidere, a
  $2-billion firm, has managed the reconstruction of Beirut's central
  business district; the stock market reopened in January 1996; and
  international banks and insurance companies are returning. The
  government nonetheless faces serious challenges in the economic
  arena. It has funded reconstruction by tapping foreign exchange
  reserves and by borrowing heavily - mostly from domestic banks. The
  newly re-installed HARIRI government's announced policies fail to
  address the ever-increasing budgetary deficits and national debt
  burden. The gap between rich and poor has widened in the 1990s,
  resulting in grassroots dissatisfaction over the skewed distribution
  of the reconstruction's benefits.

Lesotho:
  Small, landlocked, and mountainous, Lesotho's primary
  natural resource is water. Its economy is based on subsistence
  agriculture, livestock, and remittances from miners employed in
  South Africa. The number of such mineworkers has declined steadily
  over the past several years. A small manufacturing base depends
  largely on farm products that support the milling, canning, leather,
  and jute industries. Agricultural products are exported primarily to
  South Africa. Proceeds from membership in a common customs union
  with South Africa form the majority of government revenue. Although
  drought has decreased agricultural activity over the past few years,
  completion of a major hydropower facility in January 1998 now
  permits the sale of water to South Africa, generating royalties for
  Lesotho. The pace of substantial privatization has increased in
  recent years. In December 1999, the government embarked on a
  nine-month IMF staff-monitored program aimed at structural
  adjustment and stabilization of macroeconomic fundamentals. The
  government is in the process of applying for a three-year successor
  program with the IMF under its Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility.

Liberia:
  A civil war in 1989-96 destroyed much of Liberia's economy,
  especially the infrastructure in and around Monrovia. Many
  businessmen fled the country, taking capital and expertise with
  them. Some returned during 1997. Many will not return. Richly
  endowed with water, mineral resources, forests, and a climate
  favorable to agriculture, Liberia had been a producer and exporter
  of basic products, while local manufacturing, mainly foreign owned,
  had been small in scope. The democratically elected government,
  installed in August 1997, inherited massive international debts and
  currently relies on revenues from its maritime registry to provide
  the bulk of its foreign exchange earnings. The restoration of the
  infrastructure and the raising of incomes in this ravaged economy
  depend on the implementation of sound macro- and micro-economic
  policies of the new government, including the encouragement of
  foreign investment. Recent growth has been from a low base, and
  continued growth will require major policy successes.

Libya:
  The socialist-oriented economy depends primarily upon
  revenues from the oil sector, which contributes practically all
  export earnings and about one-quarter of GDP. These oil revenues and
  a small population give Libya one of the highest per capita GDPs in
  Africa, but little of this income flows down to the lower orders of
  society. In this statist society, import restrictions and
  inefficient resource allocations have led to periodic shortages of
  basic goods and foodstuffs. The nonoil manufacturing and
  construction sectors, which account for about 20% of GDP, have
  expanded from processing mostly agricultural products to include the
  production of petrochemicals, iron, steel, and aluminum. Climatic
  conditions and poor soils severely limit agricultural output, and
  Libya imports about 75% of its food requirements. Higher oil prices
  in 1999 and 2000 led to an increase in export revenues, which
  improved macroeconomic balances and helped to stimulate the economy.
  Following the suspension of UN sanctions in 1999, Libya has been
  trying to increase its attractiveness to foreign investors, and
  several foreign companies have visited in search of contracts.

Liechtenstein:
  Despite its small size and limited natural resources,
  Liechtenstein has developed into a prosperous, highly
  industrialized, free-enterprise economy with a vital financial
  service sector and living standards on a par with the urban areas of
  its large European neighbors. Low business taxes - the maximum tax
  rate is 18% - and easy incorporation rules have induced 73,700
  holding or so-called letter box companies to establish nominal
  offices in Liechtenstein, providing 30% of state revenues. The
  country participates in a customs union with Switzerland and uses
  the Swiss franc as its national currency. It imports more than 90%
  of its energy requirements. Liechtenstein has been a member of the
  European Economic Area (an organization serving as a bridge between
  European Free Trade Association (EFTA) and EU) since May 1995. The
  government is working to harmonize its economic policies with those
  of an integrated Europe.

Lithuania:
  Lithuania, the Baltic state that has conducted the most
  trade with Russia, has been slowly rebounding from the 1998 Russian
  financial crisis. High unemployment and weak consumption have held
  back recovery. GDP growth for 2000 - estimated at 2.9% - fell behind
  that of Estonia and Latvia, and unemployment is estimated at 10.8%,
  the country's highest since regaining independence in 1990. For
  2001, Lithuanians forecast 3.2% growth, 1.8% inflation, and a fiscal
  deficit of 3.3%. In early 2001, the Lithuanian Government announced
  that it will repeg its currency, the litas, to the euro (the litas
  is currently pegged to the dollar) some time in 2002. Lithuania must
  ratify 25 agreements along with other legal documents and
  obligations by 1 May 2001 before gaining World Trade Organization
  membership. Lithuania was invited to the Helsinki summit in December
  1999 and began EU accession talks in early 2000. Privatization of
  the large, state-owned utilities, particularly in the energy sector,
  remains a key challenge for 2001.

Luxembourg:
  The stable, high-income economy features solid growth,
  low inflation, and low unemployment. The industrial sector,
  initially dominated by steel, has become increasingly diversified to
  include chemicals, rubber, and other products. Growth in the
  financial sector has more than compensated for the decline in steel.
  Services, especially banking, account for a substantial proportion
  of the economy. Agriculture is based on small family-owned farms.
  The economy depends on foreign and trans-border workers for 30% of
  its labor force. Luxembourg has a custom union with Belgium and the
  Netherlands, and, as a member of the EU, enjoys the advantages of
  the open European market. It joined with 10 other EU members to
  launch the euro on 1 January 1999.

Macau:
  The economy is based largely on tourism (including gambling)
  and textile and fireworks manufacturing. Efforts to diversify have
  spawned other small industries - toys, artificial flowers, and
  electronics. The tourist sector has accounted for roughly 25% of
  GDP, and the clothing industry has provided about three-fourths of
  export earnings; the gambling industry probably represents over 40%
  of GDP. More than 8 million tourists visited Macau in 2000. Macau
  depends on China for most of its food, fresh water, and energy
  imports. Japan and Hong Kong are the main suppliers of raw materials
  and capital goods. Output dropped 5% in 1998 and 3% in 1999, with a
  small 2% gain in 2000. Macau reverted to Chinese administration on
  20 December 1999. Gang violence, a dark spot in the economy,
  probably will be reduced in 2000-01 to the advantage of the tourism
  sector.

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  At independence in
  November 1991, Macedonia was the least developed of the Yugoslav
  republics, producing a mere 5% of the total federal output of goods
  and services. The collapse of Yugoslavia ended transfer payments
  from the center and eliminated advantages from inclusion in a de
  facto free trade area. An absence of infrastructure, UN sanctions on
  its largest market Yugoslavia, and a Greek economic embargo hindered
  economic growth until 1996. GDP has subsequently increased each
  year, rising by 5% in 2000. Successful privatization in 2000 boosted
  the country's reserves to over $700 million. Also, the leadership
  demonstrated a continuing commitment to economic reform, free trade,
  and regional integration. Inflation jumped to 11% in 2000, largely
  due to higher oil prices.

Madagascar:
  Madagascar faces problems of chronic malnutrition,
  underfunded health and education facilities, a roughly 3% annual
  population growth rate, and severe loss of forest cover, accompanied
  by erosion. Agriculture, including fishing and forestry, is the
  mainstay of the economy, accounting for 30% of GDP and contributing
  more than 70% to export earnings. Industry features textile
  manufacturing and the processing of agricultural products. Growth in
  output in 1992-97 averaged less than the growth rate of the
  population. Growth has been held back by antigovernment strikes and
  demonstrations, a decline in world coffee prices, and the erratic
  commitment of the government to economic reform. The extent of
  government reforms, outside financial aid, and foreign investment
  will be key determinants of future growth. For 2001, growth should
  again be about 5%.

Malawi:
  Landlocked Malawi ranks among the world's least developed
  countries. The economy is predominately agricultural, with about 90%
  of the population living in rural areas. Agriculture accounts for
  37% of GDP and 85% of export revenues. The economy depends on
  substantial inflows of economic assistance from the IMF, the World
  Bank, and individual donor nations. In late 2000, Malawi was
  approved for relief under the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC)
  program. The government faces strong challenges, e.g., to fully
  develop a market economy, to improve educational facilities, to face
  up to environmental problems, and to deal with the rapidly growing
  problem of HIV/AIDS.

Malaysia:
  GDP grew at 8.6% in 2000, mainly on the strength of
  double-digit export growth and continued government fiscal stimulus.
  As an oil exporter, Malaysia also benefited from higher petroleum
  prices. Higher export revenues allowed the country to register a
  current account surplus, but foreign exchange reserves have been
  declining - from a peak of $34.5 billion in April 2000 to $29.7
  billion by December - as foreign investors pulled money out of the
  country. Despite this development, Kuala Lumpur is unlikely to
  abandon its currency peg soon. An economic slowdown in key Western
  markets, especially the United States, and lower world demand for
  electronics products will slow GDP growth to 3%-6% in 2001,
  according to private forecasters. Over the longer term, Malaysia's
  failure to make substantial progress on key reforms of the corporate
  and financial sectors clouds prospects for sustained growth and the
  return of critical foreign investment.

Maldives:
  Tourism, Maldives largest industry, accounts for 20% of
  GDP and more than 60% of the Maldives' foreign exchange receipts.
  Over 90% of government tax revenue comes from import duties and
  tourism-related taxes. Almost 400,000 tourists visited the islands
  in 1998. Fishing is a second leading sector. The Maldivian
  Government began an economic reform program in 1989 initially by
  lifting import quotas and opening some exports to the private
  sector. Subsequently, it has liberalized regulations to allow more
  foreign investment. Agriculture and manufacturing continue to play a
  minor role in the economy, constrained by the limited availability
  of cultivable land and the shortage of domestic labor. Most staple
  foods must be imported. Industry, which consists mainly of garment
  production, boat building, and handicrafts, accounts for about 18%
  of GDP. Maldivian authorities worry about the impact of erosion and
  possible global warming on their low-lying country; 80% of the area
  is one meter or less above sea level.

Mali:
  Mali is among the poorest countries in the world, with 65% of
  its land area desert or semidesert. Economic activity is largely
  confined to the riverine area irrigated by the Niger. About 10% of
  the population is nomadic and some 80% of the labor force is engaged
  in farming and fishing. Industrial activity is concentrated on
  processing farm commodities. Mali is heavily dependent on foreign
  aid and vulnerable to fluctuations in world prices for cotton, its
  main export. In 1997, the government continued its successful
  implementation of an IMF-recommended structural adjustment program
  that is helping the economy grow, diversify, and attract foreign
  investment. Mali's adherence to economic reform and the 50%
  devaluation of the African franc in January 1994 have pushed up
  economic growth to a sturdy 5% average in 1996-2000. Growth should
  remain around 5% in 2001-02, and inflation should stay less than 2%.

Malta:
  Major resources are limestone, a favorable geographic
  location, and a productive labor force. Malta produces only about
  20% of its food needs, has limited freshwater supplies, and has no
  domestic energy sources. The economy is dependent on foreign trade,
  manufacturing (especially electronics and textiles), and tourism.
  Malta is privatizing state-controlled firms and liberalizing markets
  in order to prepare for membership in the European Union. However,
  the island is divided politically over the question of joining the
  EU. The sizable budget deficit remains a key concern.

Man, Isle of:
  Offshore banking, manufacturing, and tourism are key
  sectors of the economy. The government's policy of offering
  incentives to high-technology companies and financial institutions
  to locate on the island has paid off in expanding employment
  opportunities in high-income industries. As a result, agriculture
  and fishing, once the mainstays of the economy, have declined in
  their shares of GDP. Banking and other services now contribute 42%
  to GDP. Trade is mostly with the UK. The Isle of Man enjoys free
  access to EU markets.

Marshall Islands:
  US Government assistance is the mainstay of this
  tiny island economy. Agricultural production is concentrated on
  small farms, and the most important commercial crops are coconuts,
  tomatoes, melons, and breadfruit. Small-scale industry is limited to
  handicrafts, fish processing, and copra. The tourist industry, now a
  small source of foreign exchange employing less than 10% of the
  labor force, remains the best hope for future added income. The
  islands have few natural resources, and imports far exceed exports.
  Under the terms of the Compact of Free Association, the US provides
  roughly $65 million in annual aid. Negotiations were underway in
  1999 for an extended agreement. Government downsizing, drought, a
  drop in construction, and the decline in tourism and foreign
  investment due to the Asian financial difficulties caused GDP to
  fall in 1996-98.

Martinique:
  The economy is based on sugarcane, bananas, tourism, and
  light industry. Agriculture accounts for about 6% of GDP and the
  small industrial sector for 11%. Sugar production has declined, with
  most of the sugarcane now used for the production of rum. Banana
  exports are increasing, going mostly to France. The bulk of meat,
  vegetable, and grain requirements must be imported, contributing to
  a chronic trade deficit that requires large annual transfers of aid
  from France. Tourism has become more important than agricultural
  exports as a source of foreign exchange. The majority of the work
  force is employed in the service sector and in administration.

Mauritania:
  A majority of the population still depends on
  agriculture and livestock for a livelihood, even though most of the
  nomads and many subsistence farmers were forced into the cities by
  recurrent droughts in the 1970s and 1980s. Mauritania has extensive
  deposits of iron ore, which account for half of total exports. The
  decline in world demand for this ore, however, has led to cutbacks
  in production. The nation's coastal waters are among the richest
  fishing areas in the world, but overexploitation by foreigners
  threatens this key source of revenue. The country's first deepwater
  port opened near Nouakchott in 1986. In the past, drought and
  economic mismanagement have resulted in a buildup of foreign debt.
  In March 1999, the government signed an agreement with a joint World
  Bank-IMF mission on a $54 million enhanced structural adjustment
  facility (ESAF). Mauritania withdrew its membership in the Economic
  Community of West African States (ECOWAS) in 2000. Privatization and
  debt relief are in full swing, and the rate of economic growth
  appears to be accelerating, especially in the construction,
  telecommunication, and information sectors. Diamonds and petroleum
  are beginning to be explored and exploited.

Mauritius:
  Since independence in 1968, Mauritius has developed from
  a low-income, agriculturally based economy to a middle-income
  diversified economy with growing industrial, financial, and tourist
  sectors. For most of the period, annual growth has been in the order
  of 5% to 6%. This remarkable achievement has been reflected in
  increased life expectancy, lowered infant mortality, and a
  much-improved infrastructure. Sugarcane is grown on about 90% of the
  cultivated land area and accounts for 25% of export earnings. The
  government's development strategy centers on foreign investment.
  Mauritius has attracted more than 9,000 offshore entities, many
  aimed at commerce in India and South Africa, and investment in the
  banking sector alone has reached over $1 billion. Economic
  performance since 1991 has continued strong with solid growth and
  low unemployment.

Mayotte:
  Economic activity is based primarily on the agricultural
  sector, including fishing and livestock raising. Mayotte is not
  self-sufficient and must import a large portion of its food
  requirements, mainly from France. The economy and future development
  of the island are heavily dependent on French financial assistance,
  an important supplement to GDP. Mayotte's remote location is an
  obstacle to the development of tourism.

Mexico:
  Mexico has a free market economy with a mixture of modern
  and outmoded industry and agriculture, increasingly dominated by the
  private sector. The number of state-owned enterprises in Mexico has
  fallen from more than 1,000 in 1982 to fewer than 200 in 2000. The
  ZEDILLO administration privatized and expanded competition in
  seaports, railroads, telecommunications, electricity, natural gas
  distribution, and airports. A strong export sector helped to cushion
  the economy's decline in 1995 and led the recovery in 1996-2000.
  Private consumption became the leading driver of growth in 2000,
  accompanied by increased employment and higher real wages. Mexico
  still needs to overcome many structural problems as it strives to
  modernize its economy and raise living standards. Income
  distribution is very unequal, with the top 20% of income earners
  accounting for 55% of income. Trade with the US and Canada has
  tripled since NAFTA was implemented in 1994. Mexico completed free
  trade agreements with the EU, Israel, El Salvador, Honduras, and
  Guatemala in 2000, and is pursuing additional trade agreements with
  countries in Latin America and Asia to lessen its dependence on the
  US.

Micronesia, Federated States of:
  Economic activity consists
  primarily of subsistence farming and fishing. The islands have few
  mineral deposits worth exploiting, except for high-grade phosphate.
  The potential for a tourist industry exists, but the remoteness of
  the location and a lack of adequate facilities hinder development.
  In 1996, the country experienced a 20% reduction in revenues from
  the Compact of Free Association - the agreement between the US and
  Micronesia in which Micronesia receives $1.3 billion in financial
  and technical assistance over a 15-year period until 2001 - as a
  result of the second step-down under the agreement. Since these
  revenues accounted for 57% of consolidated government revenues,
  reduced Compact funding resulted in a severe depression. While
  Micronesia's economy appears to have bottomed out in 1999, the
  country's medium-term economic outlook remains fragile due to likely
  further reductions in external grants made under the US Compact
  funding. Geographical isolation and a poorly developed
  infrastructure remain major impediments to long-term growth.

Midway Islands:
  The economy is based on providing support services
  for the national wildlife refuge activities located on the islands.
  All food and manufactured goods must be imported.

Moldova:
  Moldova enjoys a favorable climate and good farmland but
  has no major mineral deposits. As a result, the economy depends
  heavily on agriculture, featuring fruits, vegetables, wine, and
  tobacco. Moldova must import all of its supplies of oil, coal, and
  natural gas, largely from Russia. Energy shortages contributed to
  sharp production declines after the breakup of the Soviet Union in
  1991. As part of an ambitious reform effort, Moldova introduced a
  convertible currency, freed all prices, stopped issuing preferential
  credits to state enterprises, backed steady land privatization,
  removed export controls, and freed interest rates. Yet these efforts
  could not offset the impact of political and economic difficulties,
  both internal and regional. In 1998, the economic troubles of
  Russia, by far Moldova's leading trade partner, were a major cause
  of the 8.6% drop in GDP. In 1999, GDP fell again, by 4.4%, the fifth
  drop in the past seven years; exports were down, and energy supplies
  continued to be erratic. GDP declined slightly in 2000, with a
  serious drought hurting agriculture. Growth should turn positive in
  2001.

Monaco:
  Monaco, situated on the French Mediterranean coast, is a
  popular resort, attracting tourists to its casino and pleasant
  climate. The Principality has successfully sought to diversify into
  services and small, high-value-added, nonpolluting industries. The
  state has no income tax and low business taxes and thrives as a tax
  haven both for individuals who have established residence and for
  foreign companies that have set up businesses and offices. The state
  retains monopolies in a number of sectors, including tobacco, the
  telephone network, and the postal service. Living standards are
  high, roughly comparable to those in prosperous French metropolitan
  areas. Monaco does not publish national income figures; the
  estimates below are extremely rough.

Mongolia:
  Economic activity traditionally has been based on
  agriculture and breeding of livestock. Mongolia also has extensive
  mineral deposits: copper, coal, molybdenum, tin, tungsten, and gold
  account for a large part of industrial production. Soviet
  assistance, at its height one-third of GDP, disappeared almost
  overnight in 1990-91, at the time of the dismantlement of the USSR.
  Mongolia was driven into deep recession, which was prolonged by the
  Mongolian People's Revolutionary Party's (MPRP) reluctance to
  undertake serious economic reform. The Democratic Coalition (DC)
  government has embraced free-market economics, easing price
  controls, liberalizing domestic and international trade, and
  attempting to restructure the banking system and the energy sector.
  Major domestic privatization programs were undertaken, as well as
  the fostering of foreign investment through international tender of
  the oil distribution company, a leading cashmere company, and banks.
  Reform was held back by the ex-communist MPRP opposition and by the
  political instability brought about through four successive
  governments under the DC. Economic growth picked up in 1997-99 after
  stalling in 1996 due to a series of natural disasters and declines
  in world prices of copper and cashmere. In August and September
  1999, the economy suffered from a temporary Russian ban on exports
  of oil and oil products, and Mongolia remains vulnerable in this
  sector. Mongolia joined the World Trade Organization (WTrO) in 1997.
  The international donor community pledged over $300 million per year
  at the last Consultative Group Meeting, held in Ulaanbaatar in June
  1999. The MPRP government, elected in July 2000, is anxious to
  improve the investment climate; it must also deal with a heavy
  burden of external debt.

Montserrat:
  Severe volcanic activity, which began in July 1995, has
  put a damper on this small, open economy. A catastrophic eruption in
  June 1997 closed the airports and seaports, causing further economic
  and social dislocation. Two-thirds of the 12,000 inhabitants fled
  the island. Some began to return in 1998, but lack of housing
  limited the number. The agriculture sector continued to be affected
  by the lack of suitable land for farming and the destruction of
  crops. Prospects for the economy depend largely on developments in
  relation to the volcano and on public sector construction activity.
  The UK committed to a three year $125 million aid program in 1999 to
  help reconstruct the economy.

Morocco:
  Morocco faces the problems typical of developing countries
  - restraining government spending, reducing constraints on private
  activity and foreign trade, and achieving sustainable economic
  growth. Following structural adjustment programs supported by the
  IMF, World Bank, and the Paris Club, the dirham is now fully
  convertible for current account transactions, and reforms of the
  financial sector have been implemented. Drought conditions depressed
  activity in the key agricultural sector and contributed to a
  stagnant economy in 1999 and 2000. During that time, however,
  Morocco reported large foreign exchange inflows from the sale of a
  mobile telephone license and partial privatization of the
  state-owned telecommunications company. Favorable rainfalls have led
  Morocco to predict a growth of 1% for 2001. Formidable long-term
  challenges include: servicing the external debt; preparing the
  economy for freer trade with the EU; and improving education and
  attracting foreign investment to boost living standards and job
  prospects for Morocco's youthful population.

Mozambique:
  Before the peace accord of October 1992, Mozambique's
  economy was devastated by a protracted civil war and socialist
  mismanagement. In 1994, it ranked as one of the poorest countries in
  the world. Since then, Mozambique has undertaken a series of
  economic reforms. Almost all aspects of the economy have been
  liberalized to some extent. More than 900 state enterprises have
  been privatized. A value-added tax, introduced in 1999, launched the
  government's comprehensive tax reform program. Pending are much
  needed commercial code reform and greater private sector involvement
  in the transportation, telecommunications, and energy sectors. Since
  1996, inflation has been low and foreign exchange rates relatively
  stable. Albeit from a small base, Mozambique's economy grew at an
  annual 10% rate in 1997-99, one of the highest growth rates in the
  world. Growth slowed and inflation rose in 2000 due to devastating
  flooding in the early part of the year. Both indicators should
  recover in 2001. The country depends on foreign assistance to
  balance the budget and to pay for a trade imbalance in which imports
  greatly outnumber exports. The trade situation should improve in the
  medium term, however, as trade and transportation links to South
  Africa and the rest of the region have been improved and sizeable
  foreign investments are beginning to materialize. Among these
  investments are metal production (aluminum, steel), natural gas,
  power generation, agriculture, fishing, timber, and transportation
  services. Mozambique has received a formal cancellation of a large
  portion of its external debt through an IMF initiative and is
  scheduled to receive additional relief.

Namibia:
  The economy is heavily dependent on the extraction and
  processing of minerals for export. Mining accounts for 20% of GDP.
  Namibia is the fourth-largest exporter of nonfuel minerals in Africa
  and the world's fifth-largest producer of uranium. Rich alluvial
  diamond deposits make Namibia a primary source for gem-quality
  diamonds. Namibia also produces large quantities of lead, zinc, tin,
  silver, and tungsten. Half of the population depends on agriculture
  (largely subsistence agriculture) for its livelihood. Namibia must
  import some of its food. Although per capita GDP is four times the
  per capita GDP of Africa's poorer countries, the majority of
  Namibia's people live in pronounced poverty because of large-scale
  unemployment, the great inequality of income distribution, and the
  large amount of wealth going to foreigners. The Namibian economy has
  close links to South Africa. GDP growth in 2000 was led by gains in
  the diamond and fish sectors. Agreement has been reached on the
  privatization of several more enterprises in coming years, which
  should stimulate long-run foreign investment. Growth in 2001 could
  be 5.5% provided the world economy remains stable.

Nauru:
  Revenues of this tiny island have come from exports of
  phosphates, but reserves are expected to be exhausted within five to
  ten years. Phosphate production has declined since 1989, as demand
  has fallen in traditional markets and as the marginal cost of
  extracting the remaining phosphate increases, making it less
  internationally competitive. While phosphates have given Nauruans
  one of the highest per capita incomes in the Third World, few other
  resources exist with most necessities being imported, including
  fresh water from Australia. The rehabilitation of mined land and the
  replacement of income from phosphates are serious long-term
  problems. In anticipation of the exhaustion of Nauru's phosphate
  deposits, substantial amounts of phosphate income have been invested
  in trust funds to help cushion the transition and provide for
  Nauru's economic future. The government has been borrowing heavily
  from the trusts to finance fiscal deficits. To cut costs the
  government has called for a freezing of wages, a reduction of
  over-staffed public service departments, privatization of numerous
  government agencies, and closure of some overseas consulates. In
  recent years Nauru has encouraged the registration of offshore banks
  and corporations. Tens of billions of dollars have been channeled
  through their accounts. Few comprehensive statistics on the Nauru
  economy exist, with estimates of Nauru's per capita GDP varying
  widely.

Navassa Island:
  no economic activity

Nepal:
  Nepal is among the poorest and least developed countries in
  the world with nearly half of its population living below the
  poverty line. Agriculture is the mainstay of the economy, providing
  a livelihood for over 80% of the population and accounting for 41%
  of GDP. Industrial activity mainly involves the processing of
  agricultural produce including jute, sugarcane, tobacco, and grain.
  Production of textiles and carpets has expanded recently and
  accounted for about 80% of foreign exchange earnings in the past
  three years. Agricultural production is growing by about 5% on
  average as compared with annual population growth of 2.3%. Since May
  1991, the government has been moving forward with economic reforms,
  particularly those that encourage trade and foreign investment,
  e.g., by reducing business licenses and registration requirements in
  order to simplify investment procedures. The government has also
  been cutting expenditures by reducing subsidies, privatizing state
  industries, and laying off civil servants. More recently, however,
  political instability - five different governments over the past few
  years - has hampered Kathmandu's ability to forge consensus to
  implement key economic reforms. Nepal has considerable scope for
  accelerating economic growth by exploiting its potential in
  hydropower and tourism, areas of recent foreign investment interest.
  Prospects for foreign trade or investment in other sectors will
  remain poor, however, because of the small size of the economy, its
  technological backwardness, its remoteness, its landlocked
  geographic location, and its susceptibility to natural disaster. The
  international community's role of funding more than 60% of Nepal's
  development budget and more than 28% of total budgetary expenditures
  will likely continue as a major ingredient of growth.

Netherlands:
  The Netherlands is a prosperous and open economy
  depending heavily on foreign trade. The economy is noted for stable
  industrial relations, moderate inflation, a sizable current account
  surplus, and an important role as a European transportation hub.
  Industrial activity is predominantly in food processing, chemicals,
  petroleum refining, and electrical machinery. A highly mechanized
  agricultural sector employs no more than 4% of the labor force but
  provides large surpluses for the food-processing industry and for
  exports. The Dutch rank third worldwide in value of agricultural
  exports, behind the US and France. The Dutch economy has expanded by
  3% or more in each of the last four years and real GDP growth is
  likely to be about 3.6% in 2001. The government in 2001 will
  implement its most comprehensive tax reform since World War II,
  designed to reduce high income tax levels and redirect the fiscal
  burden onto consumption. The Dutch were among the first 11 EU
  countries establishing the euro currency zone on 1 January 1999.

Netherlands Antilles:
  Tourism, petroleum refining, and offshore
  finance are the mainstays of this small economy, which is closely
  tied to the outside world. Although GDP has declined slightly in
  each of the past five years, the islands enjoy a high per capita
  income and a well-developed infrastructure as compared with other
  countries in the region. Almost all consumer and capital goods are
  imported, with Venezuela, the US, and Mexico being the major
  suppliers. Poor soils and inadequate water supplies hamper the
  development of agriculture.

New Caledonia:
  New Caledonia has more than 20% of the world's known
  nickel resources. In recent years, the economy has suffered because
  of depressed international demand for nickel, the principal source
  of export earnings. Only a negligible amount of the land is suitable
  for cultivation, and food accounts for about 20% of imports. In
  addition to nickel, the substantial financial support from France
  and tourism are keys to the health of the economy. The situation in
  1998 was clouded by the spillover of financial problems in East Asia
  and by lower prices for nickel. Nickel prices jumped in 1999-2000,
  and large additions were made to capacity. French Government
  interests in the New Caledonian nickel industry are being
  transferred to local ownership.

New Zealand:
  Since 1984 the government has accomplished major
  economic restructuring, moving an agrarian economy dependent on
  concessionary British market access toward a more industrialized,
  free market economy that can compete globally. This dynamic growth
  has boosted real incomes, broadened and deepened the technological
  capabilities of the industrial sector, and contained inflationary
  pressures. Inflation remains among the lowest in the industrial
  world. Per capita GDP has been moving up toward the levels of the
  big West European economies. New Zealand's heavy dependence on trade
  leaves its growth prospects vulnerable to economic performance in
  Asia, Europe, and the US. With the FY00/01 budget pushing up pension
  and other public outlays, the government's ability to meet fiscal
  targets will depend on sustained economic growth.

Nicaragua:
  Nicaragua, one of the hemisphere's poorest countries,
  faces low per capita income, flagging socio-economic indicators, and
  huge external debt. While the country has made progress toward
  macro-economic stabilization over the past few years, a banking
  crisis and scandal has shaken the economy. Managua will continue to
  be dependent on international aid and debt relief under the Heavily
  Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) initiative. Donors have made aid
  conditional on improving governability, the openness of government
  financial operation, poverty alleviation, and human rights.
  Nicaragua met the conditions for additional debt service relief in
  December 2000. Growth should remain moderate to high in 2001.

Niger:
  Niger is a poor, landlocked Sub-Saharan nation, whose economy
  centers on subsistence agriculture, animal husbandry, reexport
  trade, and increasingly less on uranium, because of declining world
  demand. The 50% devaluation of the West African franc in January
  1994 boosted exports of livestock, cowpeas, onions, and the products
  of Niger's small cotton industry. The government relies on bilateral
  and multilateral aid - which was suspended following the April 1999
  coup d'etat - for operating expenses and public investment. In 2000,
  the World Bank approved a structural adjustment loan of $35 million
  to help support fiscal reforms. However, reforms could prove
  difficult given the government's bleak financial situation.

Nigeria:
  The oil-rich Nigerian economy, long hobbled by political
  instability, corruption, and poor macroeconomic management, is
  undergoing substantial economic reform under the new civilian
  administration. Nigeria's former military rulers failed to diversify
  the economy away from overdependence on the capital-intensive oil
  sector, which provides 20% of GDP, 95% of foreign exchange earnings,
  and about 65% of budgetary revenues. The largely subsistence
  agricultural sector has failed to keep up with rapid population
  growth, and Nigeria, once a large net exporter of food, now must
  import food. Following the signing of an IMF stand-by agreement in
  August 2000, Nigeria received a debt-restructuring deal from the
  Paris Club and a $1 billion loan from the IMF, both contingent on
  economic reforms. Increases in foreign investment and oil production
  combined with high world oil prices should push growth over 4% in
  2001-02.

Niue:
  Government expenditures regularly exceed revenues, and the
  shortfall is made up by critically needed grants from New Zealand
  that are used to pay wages to public employees. Niue has cut
  government expenditures by reducing the public service by almost
  half. The agricultural sector consists mainly of subsistence
  gardening, although some cash crops are grown for export. Industry
  consists primarily of small factories to process passion fruit, lime
  oil, honey, and coconut cream. The sale of postage stamps to foreign
  collectors is an important source of revenue. The island in recent
  years has suffered a serious loss of population because of migration
  of Niueans to New Zealand. Efforts to increase GDP include the
  promotion of tourism and a financial services industry.

Norfolk Island:
  Tourism, the primary economic activity, has steadily
  increased over the years and has brought a level of prosperity
  unusual among inhabitants of the Pacific islands. The agricultural
  sector has become self-sufficient in the production of beef,
  poultry, and eggs.

Northern Mariana Islands:
  The economy benefits substantially from
  financial assistance from the US. The rate of funding has declined
  as locally generated government revenues have grown. The key tourist
  industry employs about 50% of the work force and accounts for
  roughly one-fourth of GDP. Japanese tourists predominate. Annual
  tourist entries have exceeded one-half million in recent years, but
  financial difficulties in Japan have caused a temporary slowdown.
  The agricultural sector is made up of cattle ranches and small farms
  producing coconuts, breadfruit, tomatoes, and melons. Garment
  production is by far the most important industry with employment of
  12,000 mostly Chinese workers and sizable shipments to the US under
  duty and quota exemptions.

Norway:
  The Norwegian economy is a prosperous bastion of welfare
  capitalism, featuring a combination of free market activity and
  government intervention. The government controls key areas, such as
  the vital petroleum sector (through large-scale state enterprises).
  The country is richly endowed with natural resources - petroleum,
  hydropower, fish, forests, and minerals - and is highly dependent on
  its oil production and international oil prices; in 1999, oil and
  gas accounted for 35% of exports. Only Saudi Arabia exports more oil
  than Norway. Oslo opted to stay out of the EU during a referendum in
  November 1994. Growth picked up in 2000 to 2.7%, compared to the
  meager 0.8% of 1999, but may fall back in 2001. The government moved
  ahead with privatization in 2000, even proposing the sale of up to
  one-third of the 100% state-owned oil company Statoil. Despite their
  high per capita income and generous welfare benefits, Norwegians
  worry about that time in the next two decades when the oil and gas
  begin to run out. Accordingly, Norway has been saving its
  oil-boosted budget surpluses in a Government Petroleum Fund, which
  is invested abroad and now is valued at more than $43 billion.

Oman:
  Oman's economic performance improved significantly in 2000 due
  largely to the upturn in oil prices. The government is moving ahead
  with privatization of its utilities, the development of a body of
  commercial law to facilitate foreign investment, and increased
  budgetary outlays. Oman continues to liberalize its markets and
  joined the World Trade Organization (WTrO) in November 2000.

Pacific Ocean:
  The Pacific Ocean is a major contributor to the world
  economy and particularly to those nations its waters directly touch.
  It provides low-cost sea transportation between East and West,
  extensive fishing grounds, offshore oil and gas fields, minerals,
  and sand and gravel for the construction industry. In 1996, over 60%
  of the world's fish catch came from the Pacific Ocean. Exploitation
  of offshore oil and gas reserves is playing an ever-increasing role
  in the energy supplies of Australia, NZ, China, US, and Peru. The
  high cost of recovering offshore oil and gas, combined with the wide
  swings in world prices for oil since 1985, has slowed but not
  stopped new drillings.

Pakistan:
  Pakistan is a poor, heavily populated country, suffering
  from internal political disputes, lack of foreign investment, and a
  costly confrontation with neighboring India. Pakistan's economic
  outlook continues to be marred by its weak foreign exchange
  position, which relies on international creditors for hard currency
  inflows. The MUSHARRAF government will face an estimated $21 billion
  in foreign debt coming due in 2000-03, despite having rescheduled
  nearly $2 billion in debt with Paris Club members. Foreign loans and
  grants provide approximately 25% of government revenue, but debt
  service obligations total nearly 50% of government expenditure.
  Although Pakistan successfully negotiated a $600 million IMF
  Stand-By Arrangement, future loan installments will be jeopardized
  if Pakistan misses critical IMF benchmarks on revenue collection and
  the fiscal deficit. MUSHARRAF has complied largely with IMF
  recommendations to raise petroleum prices, widen the tax net,
  privatize public sector assets, and improve the balance of trade.
  However, Pakistan's economic prospects remain uncertain; too little
  has changed despite the new administration's intentions. Foreign
  exchange reserves hover at roughly $1 billion, GDP growth hinges on
  crop performance, the import bill has been hammered by high oil
  prices, and both foreign and domestic investors remain wary of
  committing to projects in Pakistan.

Palau:
  The economy consists primarily of subsistence agriculture and
  fishing. The government is the major employer of the work force,
  relying heavily on financial assistance from the US. The population
  enjoys a per capita income of twice that of the Philippines and much
  of Micronesia. Long-run prospects for the tourist sector have been
  greatly bolstered by the expansion of air travel in the Pacific and
  the rising prosperity of leading East Asian countries.

Palmyra Atoll:
  no economic activity

Panama:
  Panama's economy is based primarily on a well-developed
  services sector that accounts for three-fourths of GDP. Services
  include the Panama Canal, banking, the Colon Free Zone, insurance,
  container ports, flagship registry, and tourism. A slump in Colon
  Free Zone and agricultural exports, high oil prices, and the
  withdrawal of US military forces held back economic growth in 2000.
  The government plans public works programs, tax reforms, and new
  regional trade agreements in order to stimulate growth in 2001.

Papua New Guinea:
  Papua New Guinea is richly endowed with natural
  resources, but exploitation has been hampered by the rugged terrain
  and the high cost of developing infrastructure. Agriculture provides
  a subsistence livelihood for 85% of the population. Mineral
  deposits, including oil, copper, and gold, account for 72% of export
  earnings. The 3.4% average annual growth rate of GDP during
  1979-1998 conceals considerable year-to-year variation resulting
  from external economic shocks, natural disasters, and economic
  management problems. There has been little growth in the last half
  of the 1990s, with real GDP in 1999 barely 3% higher than in 1994,
  not enough to compensate for population growth. A new administration
  under the leadership of Prime Minister Mekere MORAUTA in July 1999
  has promised to restore integrity to state institutions, to
  stabilize the kina, to restore stability to the national budget, to
  privatize public enterprises where appropriate, and to ensure
  ongoing peace on Bougainville. The government has had considerable
  success in attracting international support, specifically gaining
  the support of the IMF and the World Bank in securing development
  assistance loans. Significant challenges remain for MORAUTA,
  however, including gaining further investor confidence, specifically
  for the proposed Papua New Guinea-Australia oil pipeline, continuing
  efforts to privatize government assets, and in maintaining the
  support from members of Parliament who after 15 July 2001 can
  dismiss him with a vote of no-confidence.

Paracel Islands:
  China announced plans in 1997 to open the islands
  for tourism.

Paraguay:
  Paraguay has a market economy marked by a large informal
  sector. The informal sector features both reexport of imported
  consumer goods to neighboring countries as well as the activities of
  thousands of microenterprises and urban street vendors. Because of
  the importance of the informal sector, accurate economic measures
  are difficult to obtain. A large percentage of the population
  derives their living from agricultural activity, often on a
  subsistence basis. The formal economy grew by an average of about 3%
  annually in 1995-97, but GDP declined slightly in 1998 and 1999. On
  a per capita basis, real income has stagnated at 1980 levels. Most
  observers attribute Paraguay's poor economic performance to
  political uncertainty, corruption, lack of progress on structural
  reform, substantial internal and external debt, and deficient
  infrastructure. Growth rebounded slightly in 2000.

Peru:
  The Peruvian economy has become increasingly market-oriented,
  with major privatizations completed since 1990 in the mining,
  electricity, and telecommunications industries. Thanks to strong
  foreign investment and the cooperation between the FUJIMORI
  government and the IMF and World Bank, growth was strong in 1994-97
  and inflation was brought under control. In 1998, El Nino's impact
  on agriculture, the financial crisis in Asia, and instability in
  Brazilian markets undercut growth. And 1999 was another lean year
  for Peru, with the aftermath of El Nino and the Asian financial
  crisis working its way through the economy. Political instability
  resulting from the presidential election and FUJIMORI's subsequent
  departure from office limited economic growth in 2000.

Philippines:
  In 1998 the Philippine economy - a mixture of
  agriculture, light industry, and supporting services - deteriorated
  as a result of spillover from the Asian financial crisis and poor
  weather conditions. Growth fell to about -0.5% in 1998 from 5% in
  1997, but recovered to about 3% in 1999 and 3.6% in 2000. The
  government has promised to continue its economic reforms to help the
  Philippines match the pace of development in the newly
  industrialized countries of East Asia. The strategy includes
  improving infrastructure, overhauling the tax system to bolster
  government revenues, moving toward further deregulation and
  privatization of the economy, and increasing trade integration with
  the region.

Pitcairn Islands:
  The inhabitants of this tiny economy exist on
  fishing, subsistence farming, handicrafts, and postage stamps. The
  fertile soil of the valleys produces a wide variety of fruits and
  vegetables, including citrus, sugarcane, watermelons, bananas, yams,
  and beans. Bartering is an important part of the economy. The major
  sources of revenue are the sale of postage stamps to collectors and
  the sale of handicrafts to passing ships.

Poland:
  Poland has steadfastly pursued a policy of liberalizing the
  economy and today stands out as one of the most successful and open
  transition economies. GDP growth has been strong and steady since
  1992 - the best performance in the region. The privatization of
  small and medium state-owned companies and a liberal law on
  establishing new firms has allowed for the rapid development of a
  vibrant private sector. In contrast, Poland's large agricultural
  sector remains handicapped by structural problems, surplus labor,
  inefficient small farms, and lack of investment. Restructuring and
  privatization of "sensitive sectors" (e.g., coal, steel, railroads,
  and energy) has begun. Structural reforms in health care, education,
  the pension system, and state administration have resulted in larger
  than expected fiscal pressures. Further progress in public finance
  depends mainly on privatization of Poland's remaining state sector.
  The government's determination to enter the EU as soon as possible
  affects most aspects of its economic policies. Improving Poland's
  outsized current account deficit and reining in inflation are
  priorities. Warsaw leads the region in foreign investment and needs
  a continued large inflow.

Portugal:
  Portugal is an upcoming capitalist economy with a per
  capita GDP two-thirds that of the four big West European economies.
  The country qualified for the European Monetary Union (EMU) in 1998
  and joined with 10 other European countries in launching the euro on
  1 January 1999. The year 2000 was marked by moderation in growth,
  inflation, and unemployment. The country continues to run a sizable
  trade deficit. The government is working to reform the tax system,
  to modernize capital plant, and to increase the country's
  competitiveness in the increasingly integrated world markets. Growth
  is expected to fall off slightly in 2001. Improvement in the
  education sector is critical to the long-run catch-up process.

Puerto Rico:
  Puerto Rico has one of the most dynamic economies in
  the Caribbean region. A diverse industrial sector has surpassed
  agriculture as the primary locus of economic activity and income.
  Encouraged by duty-free access to the US and by tax incentives, US
  firms have invested heavily in Puerto Rico since the 1950s. US
  minimum wage laws apply. Sugar production has lost out to dairy
  production and other livestock products as the main source of income
  in the agricultural sector. Tourism has traditionally been an
  important source of income, with estimated arrivals of nearly 5
  million tourists in 1999. Prospects for 2001 are clouded by a
  probable slowing down in both the construction and tourist sectors
  and by increasing inflation, particularly in energy and food prices;
  estimated growth will be 2%.

Qatar:
  Oil accounts for more than 30% of GDP, roughly 80% of export
  earnings, and 66% of government revenues. Proved oil reserves of 3.7
  billion barrels should ensure continued output at current levels for
  23 years. Oil has given Qatar a per capita GDP comparable to that of
  the leading West European industrial countries. Qatar's proved
  reserves of natural gas exceed 7 trillion cubic meters, more than 5%
  of the world total, third largest in the world. Production and
  export of natural gas are becoming increasingly important. Long-term
  goals feature the development of offshore petroleum and the
  diversification of the economy. In 2000, Qatar posted its highest
  ever trade surplus of $6 billion, due mainly to high oil prices and
  increased natural gas exports.

Reunion:
  The economy has traditionally been based on agriculture.
  Sugarcane has been the primary crop for more than a century, and in
  some years it accounts for 85% of exports. The government has been
  pushing the development of a tourist industry to relieve high
  unemployment, which amounts to more than 40% of the labor force. The
  gap in Reunion between the well-off and the poor is extraordinary
  and accounts for the persistent social tensions. The white and
  Indian communities are substantially better off than other segments
  of the population, often approaching European standards, whereas
  minority groups suffer the poverty and unemployment typical of the
  poorer nations of the African continent. The outbreak of severe
  rioting in February 1991 illustrates the seriousness of
  socioeconomic tensions. The economic well-being of Reunion depends
  heavily on continued financial assistance from France.

Romania:
  Romania, one of the poorest countries in Central and
  Eastern Europe, began the transition from communism in 1989 with a
  largely obsolete industrial base and a pattern of output unsuited to
  the country's needs. Over the past decade economic restructuring has
  lagged behind most other countries in the region. Consequently,
  living standards have continued to fall - real wages are down over
  40%. Corruption too has worsened. The EU ranks Romania last among
  enlargement candidates, and the European Bank for Reconstruction and
  Development (EBRD) rates Romania's transition progress the region's
  worst. The country emerged in 2000 from a punishing three-year
  recession thanks to strong demand in EU export markets. A new
  government elected in November 2000 promises to promote economic
  reform. Bucharest hopes to receive financial and technical
  assistance from international financial institutions and Western
  governments; negotiations over a new IMF standby agreement are to
  begin early in 2001. If reform stalls, Romania's ability to borrow
  from both public and private sources could quickly dry up, leading
  to another financial crisis.

Russia:
  A decade after the implosion of the Soviet Union in 1991,
  Russia is still struggling to establish a modern market economy and
  achieve strong economic growth. In contrast to its trading partners
  in Central Europe - which were able to overcome the initial
  production declines that accompanied the launch of market reforms
  within three to five years - Russia saw its economy contract for
  five years, as the executive and legislature dithered over the
  implementation of many of the basic foundations of a market economy.
  Russia achieved a slight recovery in 1997, but the government's
  stubborn budget deficits and the country's poor business climate
  made it vulnerable when the global financial crisis swept through in
  1998. The crisis culminated in the August depreciation of the ruble,
  a debt default by the government, and a sharp deterioration in
  living standards for most of the population. The economy rebounded
  in 1999 and 2000, buoyed by the competitive boost from the weak
  ruble and a surging trade surplus fueled by rising world oil prices.
  This recovery, along with a renewed government effort in 2000 to
  advance lagging structural reforms, have raised business and
  investor confidence over Russia's prospects in its second decade of
  transition. Yet serious problems persist. Russia remains heavily
  dependent on exports of commodities, particularly oil, natural gas,
  metals, and timber, which account for over 80% of exports, leaving
  the country vulnerable to swings in world prices. Russia's
  agricultural sector remains beset by uncertainty over land ownership
  rights, which has discouraged needed investment and restructuring.
  Another threat is negative demographic trends, fueled by low birth
  rates and a deteriorating health situation - including an alarming
  rise in AIDS cases - that have contributed to a nearly 2% drop in
  the population since 1992. Russia's industrial base is increasingly
  dilapidated and must be replaced or modernized if the country is to
  achieve sustainable economic growth. Other problems include
  widespread corruption, capital flight, and brain drain.

Rwanda:
  Rwanda is a rural country with about 90% of the population
  engaged in (mainly subsistence) agriculture. It is the most densely
  populated country in Africa; is landlocked; and has few natural
  resources and minimal industry. Primary exports are coffee and tea.
  The 1994 genocide decimated Rwanda's fragile economic base, severely
  impoverished the population, particularly women, and eroded the
  country's ability to attract private and external investment.
  However, Rwanda has made significant progress in stabilizing and
  rehabilitating its economy. GDP has rebounded, and inflation has
  been curbed. In June 1998, Rwanda signed an Enhanced Structural
  Adjustment Facility (ESAF) with the IMF. Rwanda has also embarked
  upon an ambitious privatization program with the World Bank.
  Continued growth in 2001 depends on the maintenance of international
  aid levels and the strengthening of world prices of coffee and tea.

Saint Helena:
  The economy depends largely on financial assistance
  from the UK, which amounted to about $5 million in 1997 or almost
  one-half of annual budgetary revenues. The local population earns
  income from fishing, the raising of livestock, and sales of
  handicrafts. Because there are few jobs, 25% of the work force has
  left to seek employment on Ascension Island, on the Falklands, and
  in the UK.

Saint Kitts and Nevis:
  The economy has traditionally depended on the
  growing and processing of sugarcane; decreasing world prices have
  hurt the industry in recent years. Tourism, export-oriented
  manufacturing, and offshore banking activity have assumed larger
  roles. Most food is imported. The government has undertaken a
  program designed to revitalize the faltering sugar sector. It is
  also working to improve revenue collection in order to better fund
  social programs. In 1997 some leaders in Nevis were urging
  separation from Saint Kitts on the basis that Nevis was paying far
  more in taxes than it was receiving in government services, but the
  vote on cessation failed in August 1998. In late September 1998,
  Hurricane Georges caused approximately $445 million in damages and
  limited GDP growth for the year.

Saint Lucia:
  The recent changes in the EU import preference regime
  and the increased competition from Latin American bananas have made
  economic diversification increasingly important in Saint Lucia.
  Improvement in the construction sector and growth of the tourism
  industry helped expand GDP in 1998-99. The agriculture sector
  registered its fifth year of decline in 1997 primarily because of a
  severe decline in banana production. The manufacturing sector is the
  most diverse in the Eastern Caribbean, and the government is
  beginning to develop regulations for the small offshore financial
  sector.

Saint Pierre and Miquelon:
  The inhabitants have traditionally earned
  their livelihood by fishing and by servicing fishing fleets
  operating off the coast of Newfoundland. The economy has been
  declining, however, because of disputes with Canada over fishing
  quotas and a steady decline in the number of ships stopping at Saint
  Pierre. In 1992, an arbitration panel awarded the islands an
  exclusive economic zone of 12,348 sq km to settle a longstanding
  territorial dispute with Canada, although it represents only 25% of
  what France had sought. The islands are heavily subsidized by France
  to the great betterment of living standards. The government hopes an
  expansion of tourism will boost economic prospects.

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:
  Agriculture, dominated by banana
  production, is the most important sector of this lower-middle-income
  economy. The services sector, based mostly on a growing tourist
  industry, is also important. The government has been relatively
  unsuccessful at introducing new industries, and a high unemployment
  rate persists. The continuing dependence on a single crop represents
  the biggest obstacle to the islands' development; tropical storms
  wiped out substantial portions of crops in both 1994 and 1995. The
  tourism sector has considerable potential for development over the
  next decade. Recent growth has been stimulated by strong activity in
  the construction sector and an improvement in tourism. There is a
  small manufacturing sector and a small offshore financial sector
  whose particularly restrictive secrecy laws have caused some
  international concern.

Samoa:
  The economy of Samoa has traditionally been dependent on
  development aid, family remittances from overseas, and agricultural
  exports. The country is vulnerable to devastating storms.
  Agriculture employs two-thirds of the labor force, and furnishes 90%
  of exports, featuring coconut cream, coconut oil, and copra. The
  manufacturing sector mainly processes agricultural products. Tourism
  is an expanding sector, accounting for 15% of GDP; about 85,000
  tourists visited the islands in 2000. The Samoan Government has
  called for deregulation of the financial sector, encouragement of
  investment, and continued fiscal discipline. Observers point to the
  flexibility of the labor market as a basic strength for future
  economic advances. Foreign reserves are in a relatively healthy
  state, the external debt is stable, and inflation is low.

San Marino:
  The tourist sector contributes over 50% of GDP. In 1999
  more than 3 million tourists visited San Marino. The key industries
  are banking, wearing apparel, electronics, and ceramics. Main
  agricultural products are wine and cheeses. The per capita level of
  output and standard of living are comparable to those of the most
  prosperous regions of Italy, which supplies much of its food.

Sao Tome and Principe:
  This small poor island economy has become
  increasingly dependent on cocoa since independence 25 years ago.
  However, cocoa production has substantially declined because of
  drought and mismanagement. The resulting shortage of cocoa for
  export has created a persistent balance-of-payments problem. Sao
  Tome has to import all fuels, most manufactured goods, consumer
  goods, and a significant amount of food. Over the years, it has been
  unable to service its external debt and has had to depend on
  concessional aid and debt rescheduling. Sao Tome benefited from $200
  million in debt relief in December 2000 under the Highly Indebted
  Poor Countries (HIPC) program. Considerable potential exists for
  development of a tourist industry, and the government has taken
  steps to expand facilities in recent years. The government also has
  attempted to reduce price controls and subsidies, but economic
  growth has remained sluggish. Sao Tome is also optimistic that
  significant petroleum discoveries are forthcoming in its territorial
  waters in the oil-rich waters of the Gulf of Guinea. Corruption
  scandals continue to weaken the economy. At the same time, progress
  in the economic reform program has attracted international financial
  institutions' support, and GDP growth will likely rise to at least
  4% in 2001-02.

Saudi Arabia:
  This is an oil-based economy with strong government
  controls over major economic activities. Saudi Arabia has the
  largest reserves of petroleum in the world (26% of the proved
  reserves), ranks as the largest exporter of petroleum, and plays a
  leading role in OPEC. The petroleum sector accounts for roughly 75%
  of budget revenues, 40% of GDP, and 90% of export earnings. About
  35% of GDP comes from the private sector. Roughly 5 million foreign
  workers play an important role in the Saudi economy, for example, in
  the oil and service sectors. Saudi Arabia was a key player in the
  successful efforts of OPEC and other oil producing countries to
  raise the price of oil in 1999-2000 to its highest level since the
  Gulf war by reducing production. Riyadh expects to have a moderate
  budget deficit in 2001, in part because of increased spending for
  education and other social programs. The government in 1999
  announced plans to begin privatizing the electricity companies,
  which follows the ongoing privatization of the telecommunications
  company. The government is expected to continue calling for private
  sector growth to lessen the kingdom's dependence on oil and increase
  employment opportunities for the swelling Saudi population.
  Shortages of water and rapid population growth will constrain
  government efforts to increase self-sufficiency in agricultural
  products.

Senegal:
  In January 1994, Senegal undertook a bold and ambitious
  economic reform program with the support of the international donor
  community. This reform began with a 50% devaluation of Senegal's
  currency, the CFA franc, which is linked at a fixed rate to the
  French franc. Government price controls and subsidies have been
  steadily dismantled. After seeing its economy contract by 2.1% in
  1993, Senegal made an important turnaround, thanks to the reform
  program, with real growth in GDP averaging 5% annually in 1995-99.
  Annual inflation has been pushed down to 2%, and the fiscal deficit
  has been cut to less than 1.5% of GDP. Investment rose steadily from
  13.8% of GDP in 1993 to 16.5% in 1997. As a member of the West
  African Economic and Monetary Union (UEMOA), Senegal is working
  toward greater regional integration with a unified external tariff.
  Senegal also realized full Internet connectivity in 1996, creating a
  miniboom in information technology-based services. Private activity
  now accounts for 82% of GDP. On the negative side, Senegal faces
  deep-seated urban problems of chronic unemployment, juvenile
  delinquency, and drug addiction. Real GDP growth is expected to rise
  above 6%, while inflation is likely to hold at 2% in 2001-02.

Seychelles:
  Since independence in 1976, per capita output in this
  Indian Ocean archipelago has expanded to roughly seven times the old
  near-subsistence level. Growth has been led by the tourist sector,
  which employs about 30% of the labor force and provides more than
  70% of hard currency earnings, and by tuna fishing. In recent years
  the government has encouraged foreign investment in order to upgrade
  hotels and other services. At the same time, the government has
  moved to reduce the dependence on tourism by promoting the
  development of farming, fishing, and small-scale manufacturing. The
  vulnerability of the tourist sector was illustrated by the sharp
  drop in 1991-92 due largely to the Gulf war. Although the industry
  has rebounded, the government recognizes the continuing need for
  upgrading the sector in the face of stiff international competition.
  Other issues facing the government are the curbing of the budget
  deficit and further privatization of public enterprises. Growth
  slowed in 1998-2000, due to sluggish tourist and tuna sectors. Tight
  controls on exchange rates and the scarcity of foreign exchange have
  hindered short-term economic prospects. The black market value of
  the Seychelles ruppee is half the official exchange rate; without a
  devaluation of the currency the tourist sector should remain
  sluggish as vacationers seek cheaper destinations such as Comoros,
  Mauritius, and Madagascar.

Sierra Leone:
  Sierra Leone is an extremely poor African nation with
  tremendous inequality in income distribution. It does have
  substantial mineral, agricultural, and fishery resources. However,
  the economic and social infrastructure is not well developed, and
  serious social disorders continue to hamper economic development.
  About two-thirds of the working-age population engages in
  subsistence agriculture. Manufacturing consists mainly of the
  processing of raw materials and of light manufacturing for the
  domestic market. Bauxite and rutile mines have been shut down by
  civil strife. The major source of hard currency is found in the
  mining of diamonds, the large majority of which are smuggled out of
  the country. The resurgence of internal warfare in 1999 brought
  another substantial drop in GDP, with GNP recovering part of the way
  in 2000. The fate of the economy depends upon the maintenance of
  domestic peace and the continued receipt of substantial aid from
  abroad.

Singapore:
  Singapore is blessed with a highly developed and
  successful free-market economy, a remarkably open and
  corruption-free business environment, stable prices, and the fifth
  highest per capita GDP in the world. Exports, particularly in
  electronics and chemicals, and services are the main drivers of the
  economy. Mainly because of robust exports, especially electronic
  goods, the economy grew 10.1% in 2000. Forecasters, however, are
  projecting only 4%-6% growth in 2001 largely because of weaker
  global demand, especially in the US. The government promotes high
  levels of savings and investment through a mandatory savings scheme
  and spends heavily in education and technology. It also owns
  government-linked companies (GLCs) - particularly in manufacturing -
  that operate as commercial entities. As Singapore looks to a future
  increasingly marked by globalization, the country is positioning
  itself as the region's financial and high-tech hub.

Slovakia:
  Slovakia continues the difficult transition from a
  centrally planned economy to a modern market economy. The economic
  slowdown in 1999 stemmed from large budget and current account
  deficits, fast-growing external debt, and persistent corruption.
  Even though GDP growth reached only 2.2% in 2000, the year was
  marked by positive developments such as foreign direct investment of
  $1.5 billion, strong export performance, restructuring and
  privatization in the banking sector, entry into the OECD, and
  initial efforts to stem corruption. Strong challenges face the
  government in 2001, especially the maintenance of fiscal balance,
  the further privatization of the economy, and the reduction of
  unemployment.

Slovenia:
  Although Slovenia enjoys one of the highest GDPs per
  capita among the transition economies of Central Europe, it needs to
  speed up the privatization process and the dismantling of
  restrictions on foreign investment. About 45% of the economy remains
  in state hands, and the level of foreign direct investment inflows
  as a percent of GDP is the lowest in the region. Analysts are
  predicting between 4.0% and 4.2% growth for 2001. Export growth is
  expected to slow in 2001 and 2002 as EU markets soften. Inflation
  rose from 6.1% to 8.9% in 2000 and remains a matter of concern.

Solomon Islands:
  The bulk of the population depends on agriculture,
  fishing, and forestry for at least part of their livelihood. Most
  manufactured goods and petroleum products must be imported. The
  islands are rich in undeveloped mineral resources such as lead,
  zinc, nickel, and gold. However, severe ethnic violence, the closing
  of key business enterprises, and an empty government treasury have
  led to a continuing economic downslide. Deliveries of crucial fuel
  supplies (including those for electrical generation) by tankers have
  become sporadic due to the government's inability to pay and attacks
  against ships. Telecommunications are threatened by the lack of
  technical and maintenance staff many of whom have left the country.

Somalia:
  One of the world's poorest and least developed countries,
  Somalia has few resources. Moreover, much of the economy has been
  devastated by the civil war. Agriculture is the most important
  sector, with livestock accounting for about 40% of GDP and about 65%
  of export earnings. Nomads and semi-nomads, who are dependent upon
  livestock for their livelihood, make up a large portion of the
  population. Livestock and bananas are the principal exports; sugar,
  sorghum, corn, fish, and qat are products for the domestic market.
  The small industrial sector, based on the processing of agricultural
  products, accounts for 10% of GDP; most facilities have been shut
  down because of the civil strife. Moreover, ongoing civil
  disturbances in Mogadishu and outlying areas have interfered with
  any substantial economic advance and with international aid
  arrangements. Due to the civil strife, economic data is susceptible
  to an exceptionally wide margin of error.

South Africa:
  South Africa is a middle-income, developing country
  with an abundant supply of resources, well-developed financial,
  legal, communications, energy, and transport sectors, a stock
  exchange that ranks among the 10 largest in the world, and a modern
  infrastructure supporting an efficient distribution of goods to
  major urban centers throughout the region. However, growth has not
  been strong enough to cut into the 30% unemployment, and daunting
  economic problems remain from the apartheid era, especially the
  problems of poverty and lack of economic empowerment among the
  disadvantaged groups. Other problems are crime, corruption, and
  HIV/AIDS. At the start of 2000, President MBEKI vowed to promote
  economic growth and foreign investment, and to reduce poverty by
  relaxing restrictive labor laws, stepping up the pace of
  privatization, and cutting unneeded governmental spending.

South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands:
  Some fishing takes
  place in adjacent waters. There is a potential source of income from
  harvesting fin fish and krill. The islands receive income from
  postage stamps produced in the UK.

Southern Ocean:
  Fisheries in 1998-99 (1 July to 30 June) landed
  119,898 metric tons, of which 85% was krill and 14% Patagonian
  toothfish. International agreements were adopted in late 1999 to
  reduce illegal, unreported, and unregulated fishing, which in the
  1998-99 season landed five to six times more Patagonian toothfish
  than the regulated fishery. In the 1999-2000 antarctic summer 13,193
  tourists, most of them seaborne, visited the Southern Ocean and
  Antarctica, compared to 10,013 the previous year. Nearly 16,000
  tourists are expected during the 2000-01 season.

Spain:
  Spain's mixed capitalist economy supports a GDP that on a per
  capita basis is 80% that of the four leading West European
  economies. Its center-right government successfully worked to gain
  admission to the first group of countries launching the European
  single currency on 1 January 1999. The AZNAR administration has
  continued to advocate liberalization, privatization, and
  deregulation of the economy and has introduced some tax reforms to
  that end. Unemployment has been steadily falling under the AZNAR
  administration but remains the highest in the EU at 14%. The
  government intends to make further progress in changing labor laws
  and reforming pension schemes, which are key to the sustainability
  of both Spain's internal economic advances and its competitiveness
  in a single currency area. Adjusting to the monetary and other
  economic policies of an integrated Europe - and further reducing
  unemployment - will pose challenges to Spain in the next few years.

Spratly Islands:
  Economic activity is limited to commercial fishing.
  The proximity to nearby oil- and gas-producing sedimentary basins
  suggests the potential for oil and gas deposits, but the region is
  largely unexplored, and there are no reliable estimates of potential
  reserves; commercial exploitation has yet to be developed.

Sri Lanka:
  In 1977, Colombo abandoned statist economic policies and
  its import substitution trade policy for market-oriented policies
  and export-oriented trade. Sri Lanka's most dynamic sectors now are
  food processing, textiles and apparel, food and beverages,
  telecommunications, and insurance and banking. By 1996 plantation
  crops made up only 20% of exports (compared with 93% in 1970), while
  textiles and garments accounted for 63%. GDP grew at an annual
  average rate of 5.5% throughout the 1990s until a drought and a
  deteriorating security situation lowered growth to 3.8% in 1996. The
  economy rebounded in 1997-98 with growth of 6.4% and 4.7% - but
  slowed to 4.3% in 1999. Growth increased to 5.6% in 2000, with
  growth in tourism and exports leading the way. But a resurgence of
  civil war between the Sinhalese and the minority Tamils and a
  possible slowdown in tourism dampen prospects for 2001. For the next
  round of reforms, the central bank of Sri Lanka recommends that
  Colombo expand market mechanisms in nonplantation agriculture,
  dismantle the government's monopoly on wheat imports, and promote
  more competition in the financial sector.

Sudan:
  Sudan is buffeted by civil war, chronic instability, adverse
  weather, weak world agricultural prices, a drop in remittances from
  abroad, and counterproductive economic policies. The private
  sector's main areas of activity are agriculture (which employs 80%
  of the work force), trading, and light industry which is mostly
  processing of agricultural goods. Most of the 1990s were
  characterized by sluggish economic growth as the IMF suspended
  lending, declared Sudan a non-cooperative state, and threatened to
  expel Sudan from the IMF. Starting in 1997, Sudan began implementing
  IMF macroeconomic reforms which have successfully stabilized
  inflation at 10% or less. Sudan continues to have limited
  international credit resources as over 75% of Sudan's debt of $24.9
  billion is in arrears and Khartoum's continued prosecution of the
  civil war works to isolate Sudan. In 1999, Sudan began exporting oil
  and in 1999-2000 had recorded its first trade surpluses. Current oil
  production stands at 185,000 barrels per day, of which about 70% is
  exported and the rest refined for domestic consumption. Despite its
  many infrastructure problems, Sudan's increased oil production, the
  return of regular rainfall, and recent investments in irrigation
  schemes should allow the country to achieve economic growth of 6% in
  2001.

Suriname:
  The economy is dominated by the bauxite industry, which
  accounts for more than 15% of GDP and 70% of export earnings. After
  assuming power in the fall of 1996, the WIJDENBOSCH government ended
  the structural adjustment program of the previous government,
  claiming it was unfair to the poorer elements of society. Tax
  revenues fell as old taxes lapsed and the government failed to
  implement new tax alternatives. By the end of 1997, the allocation
  of new Dutch development funds was frozen as Surinamese Government
  relations with the Netherlands deteriorated. Economic growth slowed
  in 1998, with decline in the mining, construction, and utility
  sectors. Rampant government expenditures, poor tax collection, a
  bloated civil service, and reduced foreign aid in 1999 contributed
  to the fiscal deficit, estimated at 11% of GDP. The government
  sought to cover this deficit through monetary expansion, which led
  to a dramatic increase in inflation and exchange rate depreciation.
  Suriname's economic prospects for the medium term will depend on
  renewed commitment to responsible monetary and fiscal policies and
  to the introduction of structural reforms to liberalize markets and
  promote competition. The new government of Ronald VENETIAAN has
  begun an austerity program, raised taxes, and attempted to control
  spending. the exchange rate has responded by stabilizing. The Dutch
  Government has restarted the aid flow, which will allow Suriname to
  access international development financing.

Svalbard:
  Coal mining is the major economic activity on Svalbard.
  The treaty of 9 February 1920 gives the 41 signatories equal rights
  to exploit mineral deposits, subject to Norwegian regulation.
  Although US, UK, Dutch, and Swedish coal companies have mined in the
  past, the only companies still mining are Norwegian and Russian. The
  settlements on Svalbard are essentially company towns. The Norwegian
  state-owned coal company employs nearly 60% of the Norwegian
  population on the island, runs many of the local services, and
  provides most of the local infrastructure. There is also some
  trapping of seal, polar bear, fox, and walrus.

Swaziland:
  In this small landlocked economy, subsistence agriculture
  occupies more than 60% of the population. Manufacturing features a
  number of agroprocessing factories. Mining has declined in
  importance in recent years: diamond mines have shut down because of
  the depletion of easily accessible reserves; high-grade iron ore
  deposits were depleted by 1978; and health concerns have cut world
  demand for asbestos. Exports of soft drink concentrate, sugar, and
  wood pulp are the main earners of hard currency. Surrounded by South
  Africa, except for a short border with Mozambique, Swaziland is
  heavily dependent on South Africa from which it receives four-fifths
  of its imports and to which it sends two-thirds of its exports.
  Remittances from the Southern African Customs Union and Swazi
  workers in South African mines substantially supplement domestically
  earned income. The government is trying to improve the atmosphere
  for foreign investment. Overgrazing, soil depletion, drought, and
  sometimes floods persist as problems for the future. Prospects for
  2001 are strengthened by government millennium projects for a new
  convention center, additional hotels, an amusement park, a new
  airport, and stepped-up roadbuilding and factory construction plans.

Sweden:
  Aided by peace and neutrality for the whole twentieth
  century, Sweden has achieved an enviable standard of living under a
  mixed system of high-tech capitalism and extensive welfare benefits.
  It has a modern distribution system, excellent internal and external
  communications, and a skilled labor force. Timber, hydropower, and
  iron ore constitute the resource base of an economy heavily oriented
  toward foreign trade. Privately owned firms account for about 90% of
  industrial output, of which the engineering sector accounts for 50%
  of output and exports. Agriculture accounts for only 2% of GDP and
  2% of the jobs. In recent years, however, this extraordinarily
  favorable picture has been somewhat clouded by budgetary
  difficulties, high unemployment, and a gradual loss of
  competitiveness in international markets. Sweden has harmonized its
  economic policies with those of the EU, which it joined at the start
  of 1995. GDP growth is forecast for 4% in 2001.

Switzerland:
  Switzerland, a prosperous and stable modern market
  economy with a per capita GDP 20% above that of the big western
  European economies, experienced solid growth of 3% in 2000, but
  growth is expected to fall back to about 2% in 2001. The Swiss in
  recent years have brought their economic practices largely into
  conformity with the EU's to enhance their international
  competitiveness. Although the Swiss are not pursuing full EU
  membership in the near term, in 1999 Bern and Brussels signed
  agreements to further liberalize trade ties, and the agreements
  should come into force in 2001. Switzerland is still considered a
  safe haven for investors, because it has maintained a degree of bank
  secrecy and has kept up the franc's long-term external value.

Syria:
  Syria's predominantly statist economy is on a shaky footing
  because of Damascus's failure to implement extensive economic
  reform. The dominant agricultural sector remains underdeveloped,
  with roughly 80% of agricultural land still dependent on rain-fed
  sources. Although Syria has sufficient water supplies in the
  aggregate at normal levels of precipitation, the great distance
  between major water supplies and population centers poses serious
  distribution problems. The water problem is exacerbated by rapid
  population growth, industrial expansion, and increased water
  pollution. Private investment is critical to the modernization of
  the agricultural, energy, and export sectors. Oil production is
  leveling off, and the efforts of the nonoil sector to penetrate
  international markets have fallen short. Syria's inadequate
  infrastructure, outmoded technological base, and weak educational
  system make it vulnerable to future shocks and hamper competition
  with neighbors such as Jordan and Israel. The government recognizes
  the need to open the economy to additional domestic and foreign
  investment.

Tajikistan:
  Tajikistan has the lowest per capita GDP among the 15
  former Soviet republics. Cotton is the most important crop. Mineral
  resources, varied but limited in amount, include silver, gold,
  uranium, and tungsten. Industry consists only of a large aluminum
  plant, hydropower facilities, and small obsolete factories mostly in
  light industry and food processing. The Tajikistani economy has been
  gravely weakened by six years of civil conflict and by the loss of
  subsidies from Moscow and of markets for its products. Most of its
  people live in abject poverty. Tajikistan depends on aid from Russia
  and Uzbekistan and on international humanitarian assistance for much
  of its basic subsistence needs. The future of Tajikistan's economy
  and the potential for attracting foreign investment depend upon
  stability and continued progress in the peace process.

Tanzania:
  Tanzania is one of the poorest countries in the world. The
  economy is heavily dependent on agriculture, which accounts for half
  of GDP, provides 85% of exports, and employs 80% of the work force.
  Topography and climatic conditions, however, limit cultivated crops
  to only 4% of the land area. Industry is mainly limited to
  processing agricultural products and light consumer goods. The World
  Bank, the International Monetary Fund, and bilateral donors have
  provided funds to rehabilitate Tanzania's deteriorated economic
  infrastructure. Growth in 1991-2000 featured a pick up in industrial
  production and a substantial increase in output of minerals, led by
  gold. Natural gas exploration in the Rufiji Delta looks promising
  and production could start by 2002. Recent banking reforms have
  helped increase private sector growth and investment. Continued
  donor support and solid macroeconomic policies should allow Tanzania
  to achieve real GDP growth of 6% in 2001 and in 2002.

Thailand:
  After enjoying the world's highest growth rate from 1985
  to 1995 - averaging almost 9% annually - increased speculative
  pressure on Thailand's currency in 1997 led to a crisis that
  uncovered financial sector weaknesses and forced the government to
  float the baht. Long pegged at 25 to the dollar, the baht reached
  its lowest point of 56 to the dollar in January 1998 and the economy
  contracted by 10.2% that same year. Thailand entered a recovery
  stage in 1999, expanding 4.2% and grew about the same amount in
  2000, largely due to strong exports - which increased about 20% in
  2000. An ailing financial sector and the slow pace of corporate debt
  restructuring, combined with a softening of global demand, is likely
  to slow growth in 2001.

Togo:
  This small sub-Saharan economy is heavily dependent on both
  commercial and subsistence agriculture, which provides employment
  for 65% of the labor force. Some basic foodstuffs must still be
  imported. Together, cocoa, coffee, and cotton generate some 40% of
  export earnings, with cotton being the most significant cash crop
  despite falling prices on the world market. In the industrial
  sector, phosphate mining is by far the most important activity. Togo
  is the world's fourth largest producer, and geological advantages
  keep production costs low. The recently privatized mining operation,
  Office Togolais des Phosphates (OTP), is slowly recovering from a
  steep fall in prices in the early 1990's, but continues to face the
  challenge of tough foreign competition, exacerbated by weakening
  demand. Togo serves as a regional commercial and trade center. It
  continues to expand its duty-free export-processing zone (EPZ),
  launched in 1989, which has attracted enterprises from France,
  Italy, Scandinavia, the US, India, and China and created jobs for
  Togolese nationals. The government's decade-long effort, supported
  by the World Bank and the IMF, to implement economic reform
  measures, encourage foreign investment, and bring revenues in line
  with expenditures has stalled. Progress depends on following through
  on privatization, increased openness in government financial
  operations, progress towards legislative elections, and possible
  downsizing of the military, on which the regime has depended to stay
  in place. Lack of foreign aid, deterioration of the financial
  sector, energy shortages, and depressed commodity prices continue to
  constrain economic growth; however, Togo did realize a 3% gain in
  GDP in 1999. The takeover of the national power company by a
  Franco-Canadian consortium in 2000 should ease the energy crisis and
  if successful legislative elections pave the way for increased aid,
  growth should rise to 5% a year in 2001-02.

Tokelau:
  Tokelau's small size (three villages), isolation, and lack
  of resources greatly restrain economic development and confine
  agriculture to the subsistence level. The people must rely on aid
  from New Zealand to maintain public services, annual aid being
  substantially greater than GDP. The principal sources of revenue
  come from sales of copra, postage stamps, souvenir coins, and
  handicrafts. Money is also remitted to families from relatives in
  New Zealand.

Tonga:
  Tonga has a small, open economy with a narrow export base in
  agricultural goods, which contributes 30% to GDP. Squash, coconuts,
  bananas, and vanilla beans are the main crops, and agricultural
  exports make up two-thirds of total exports. The country must import
  a high proportion of its food, mainly from New Zealand. The
  industrial sector accounts for only 10% of GDP. Tourism is the
  primary source of hard currency earnings. The country remains
  dependent on sizable external aid and remittances from Tongan
  communities overseas to offset its trade deficit. The government is
  emphasizing the development of the private sector, especially the
  encouragement of investment, and is committing increased funds for
  health and education. Tonga has a reasonable basic infrastructure
  and well-developed social services.

Trinidad and Tobago:
  Trinidad and Tobago has earned a reputation as
  an excellent investment site for international businesses.
  Successful economic reforms were implemented in 1995, and foreign
  investment and trade are flourishing. Persistently high unemployment
  remains one of the chief challenges of the government. The
  petrochemical sector has spurred growth in other related sectors,
  reinforcing the government's commitment to economic diversification.
  Tourism is growing, especially in the pleasure boat sector. New
  investment and construction also will continue to drive the economy.

Tromelin Island:
  no economic activity

Tunisia:
  Tunisia has a diverse economy, with important agricultural,
  mining, energy, tourism, and manufacturing sectors. Governmental
  control of economic affairs while still heavy has gradually lessened
  over the past decade with increasing privatization, simplification
  of the tax structure, and a prudent approach to debt. Real growth
  averaged 5.5% in the past four years, and inflation is slowing.
  Growth in tourism and increased trade have been key elements in this
  steady growth. Tunisia's association agreement with the European
  Union entered into force on 1 March 1998, the first such accord
  between the EU and Mediterranean countries to be activated. Under
  the agreement Tunisia will gradually remove barriers to trade with
  the EU over the next decade. Broader privatization, further
  liberalization of the investment code to increase foreign
  investment, and improvements in government efficiency are among the
  challenges for the future.

Turkey:
  Turkey's dynamic economy is a complex mix of modern industry
  and commerce along with traditional agriculture that still accounts
  for nearly 40% of employment. It has a strong and rapidly growing
  private sector, yet the state still plays a major role in basic
  industry, banking, transport, and communication. The most important
  industry - and largest exporter - is textiles and clothing, which is
  almost entirely in private hands. In recent years the economic
  situation has been marked by erratic economic growth and serious
  imbalances. Real GNP growth has exceeded 6% in most years, but this
  strong expansion was interrupted by sharp declines in output in 1994
  and 1999. Meanwhile the public sector fiscal deficit has regularly
  exceeded 10% of GDP - due in large part to the huge burden of
  interest payments, which now account for more than 40% of central
  government spending - while inflation has remained in the high
  double digit range. Perhaps because of these problems, foreign
  direct investment in Turkey remains low - less than $1 billion
  annually. Prospects for the future are improving, however, because
  the ECEVIT government since June 1999 has been implementing an
  IMF-backed reform program, including a tighter budget, social
  security reform, banking reorganization, and accelerated
  privatization. As a result, the fiscal situation is greatly improved
  and inflation has dropped below 40% - the lowest rate since 1987.
  The country experienced a financial crisis in late 2000, including
  sharp drops in the stock market and foreign exchange reserves, but
  is recovering rapidly, thanks to additional IMF support and the
  government's commitment to a specific timetable of economic reforms.

Turkmenistan:
  Turkmenistan is largely desert country with intensive
  agriculture in irrigated oases and huge gas (fifth largest reserves
  in the world) and oil resources. One-half of its irrigated land is
  planted in cotton, making it the world's tenth largest producer.
  Until the end of 1993, Turkmenistan had experienced less economic
  disruption than other former Soviet states because its economy
  received a boost from higher prices for oil and gas and a sharp
  increase in hard currency earnings. In 1994, Russia's refusal to
  export Turkmen gas to hard currency markets and mounting debts of
  its major customers in the former USSR for gas deliveries
  contributed to a sharp fall in industrial production and caused the
  budget to shift from a surplus to a slight deficit. With an
  authoritarian ex-communist regime in power and a tribally based
  social structure, Turkmenistan has taken a cautious approach to
  economic reform, hoping to use gas and cotton sales to sustain its
  inefficient economy. Privatization goals remain limited. In
  1998-2000, Turkmenistan suffered from the continued lack of adequate
  export routes for natural gas and from obligations on extensive
  short-term external debt. At the same time, however, total exports
  rose sharply because of higher international oil and gas prices.
  Prospects in the near future are discouraging because of widespread
  internal poverty and the burden of foreign debt. IMF assistance
  would seem to be necessary, yet the government is not as yet ready
  to accept IMF requirements. Turkmenistan's 1999 deal to ship 20
  billion cubic meters (bcm) of natural gas through Russia's Gazprom
  pipeline helped alleviate the 2000 fiscal shortfall. Inadequate
  fiscal restraint and the tenuous nature of Turkmenistan's 2001 gas
  deals, combined with a lack of economic reform, will limit progress
  in the near term.

Turks and Caicos Islands:
  The Turks and Caicos economy is based on
  tourism, fishing, and offshore financial services. Most capital
  goods and food for domestic consumption are imported. The US was the
  leading source of tourists in 1996, accounting for more than half of
  the 87,000 visitors; tourist arrivals had risen to 93,000 by 1998.
  Major sources of government revenue include fees from offshore
  financial activities and customs receipts.

Tuvalu:
  Tuvalu consists of a densely populated, scattered group of
  nine coral atolls with poor soil. The country has no known mineral
  resources and few exports. Subsistence farming and fishing are the
  primary economic activities. Government revenues largely come from
  the sale of stamps and coins and worker remittances. About 1,000
  Tuvaluans work in Nauru in the phosphate mining industry. Nauru has
  begun repatriating Tuvaluans, however, as phosphate resources
  decline. Substantial income is received annually from an
  international trust fund established in 1987 by Australia, NZ, and
  the UK and supported also by Japan and South Korea. Thanks to wise
  investments and conservative withdrawals, this Fund has grown from
  an initial $17 million to over $35 million in 1999. The US
  government is also a major revenue source for Tuvalu, with 1999
  payments from a 1988 treaty on fisheries at about $9 million, a
  total which is expected to rise annually. In an effort to reduce its
  dependence on foreign aid, the government is pursuing public sector
  reforms, including privatization of some government functions and
  personnel cuts of up to 7%. In 1998, Tuvalu began deriving revenue
  from use of its area code for "900" lines and in 2000, from the sale
  of its ".tv" Internet domain name. Royalties from these new
  technology sources could raise GDP three or more times over the next
  decade. In 1999, with merchandise exports falling and financing
  reaching less than 5% of imports, continued reliance was placed on
  fishing and telecommunications license fees, remittances from
  overseas workers, official transfers, and investment income from
  overseas assets to cover the trade deficit.

Uganda:
  Uganda has substantial natural resources, including fertile
  soils, regular rainfall, and sizable mineral deposits of copper and
  cobalt. Agriculture is the most important sector of the economy,
  employing over 80% of the work force. Coffee is the major export
  crop and accounts for the bulk of export revenues. Since 1986, the
  government - with the support of foreign countries and international
  agencies - has acted to rehabilitate and stabilize the economy by
  undertaking currency reform, raising producer prices on export
  crops, increasing prices of petroleum products, and improving civil
  service wages. The policy changes are especially aimed at dampening
  inflation and boosting production and export earnings. In 1990-2000,
  the economy turned in a solid performance based on continued
  investment in the rehabilitation of infrastructure, improved
  incentives for production and exports, reduced inflation, gradually
  improved domestic security, and the return of exiled Indian-Ugandan
  entrepreneurs. Ongoing Ugandan involvement in the war in the
  Democratic Republic of the Congo, corruption within the government,
  and slippage in the government's determination to press reforms
  raise doubts about the continuation of strong growth. In 2000,
  Uganda qualified for enhanced HIPC debt relief worth $1.3 billion
  and Paris Club debt relief worth $145 million. These amounts
  combined with the original Highly Indebted Poor Countries HIPC debt
  relief add up to about $2 billion. Growth for 2001 should be
  somewhat lower than in 2000, because of a decline in the price of
  coffee, Uganda's principal export.

Ukraine:
  After Russia, the Ukrainian republic was far and away the
  most important economic component of the former Soviet Union,
  producing about four times the output of the next-ranking republic.
  Its fertile black soil generated more than one-fourth of Soviet
  agricultural output, and its farms provided substantial quantities
  of meat, milk, grain, and vegetables to other republics. Likewise,
  its diversified heavy industry supplied the unique equipment (for
  example, large diameter pipes) and raw materials to industrial and
  mining sites (vertical drilling apparatus) in other regions of the
  former USSR. Ukraine depends on imports of energy, especially
  natural gas, to meet some 85% of its annual energy requirements.
  Shortly after independence in late 1991, the Ukrainian Government
  liberalized most prices and erected a legal framework for
  privatization, but widespread resistance to reform within the
  government and the legislature soon stalled reform efforts and led
  to some backtracking. Output in 1992-99 fell to less than 40% the
  1991 level. Loose monetary policies pushed inflation to
  hyperinflationary levels in late 1993. Ukraine's dependence on
  Russia for energy supplies and the lack of significant structural
  reform have made the Ukrainian economy vulnerable to external
  shocks. Now in his second term, President KUCHMA has pledged to
  reduce the number of government agencies and streamline the
  regulation process, create a legal environment to encourage
  entrepreneurs and protect ownership rights, and enact a
  comprehensive tax overhaul. Reforms in the more politically
  sensitive areas of structural reform and land privatization are
  still lagging. Outside institutions - particularly the IMF - have
  encouraged Ukraine to quicken the pace and scope of reforms and have
  threatened to withdraw financial support. GDP in 2000 showed strong
  export-based growth of 6% - the first growth since independence -
  and industrial production grew 12.9%. As the capacity for further
  export-based economic expansion diminishes, GDP growth in 2001 is
  likely to decline to around 3%.

United Arab Emirates:
  The UAE has an open economy with a high per
  capita income and a sizable annual trade surplus. Its wealth is
  based on oil and gas output (about 33% of GDP), and the fortunes of
  the economy fluctuate with the prices of those commodities. Since
  1973, the UAE has undergone a profound transformation from an
  impoverished region of small desert principalities to a modern state
  with a high standard of living. At present levels of production, oil
  and gas reserves should last for more than 100 years. Despite higher
  oil revenues in 1999-2000, the government has not drawn back from
  the economic reforms implemented during the 1998 oil price
  depression. The government has increased spending on job creation
  and infrastructure expansion and is opening up its utilities to
  greater private-sector involvement.

United Kingdom:
  The UK, a leading trading power and financial
  center, deploys an essentially capitalistic economy, one of the
  quartet of trillion dollar economies of Western Europe. Over the
  past two decades the government has greatly reduced public ownership
  and contained the growth of social welfare programs. Agriculture is
  intensive, highly mechanized, and efficient by European standards,
  producing about 60% of food needs with only 1% of the labor force.
  The UK has large coal, natural gas, and oil reserves; primary energy
  production accounts for 10% of GDP, one of the highest shares of any
  industrial nation. Services, particularly banking, insurance, and
  business services, account by far for the largest proportion of GDP
  while industry continues to decline in importance. The economy has
  grown steadily, at just above or below 3%, for the last several
  years. The BLAIR government has put off the question of
  participation in the euro system until after the next election, in
  June of 2001; Chancellor of the Exchequer BROWN has identified some
  key economic tests to determine whether the UK should join the
  common currency system, but it will largely be a political decision.
  A serious short-term problem is foot-and-mouth disease, which by
  early 2001 had broken out in nearly 600 farms and slaughterhouses
  and had resulted in the killing of 400,000 animals.

United States:
  The US has the largest and most technologically
  powerful economy in the world, with a per capita GDP of $36,200. In
  this market-oriented economy, private individuals and business firms
  make most of the decisions, and government buys needed goods and
  services predominantly in the private marketplace. US business firms
  enjoy considerably greater flexibility than their counterparts in
  Western Europe and Japan in decisions to expand capital plant, lay
  off surplus workers, and develop new products. At the same time,
  they face higher barriers to entry in their rivals' home markets
  than the barriers to entry of foreign firms in US markets. US firms
  are at or near the forefront in technological advances, especially
  in computers and in medical, aerospace, and military equipment,
  although their advantage has narrowed since the end of World War II.
  The onrush of technology largely explains the gradual development of
  a "two-tier labor market" in which those at the bottom lack the
  education and the professional/technical skills of those at the top
  and, more and more, fail to get comparable pay raises, health
  insurance coverage, and other benefits. Since 1975, practically all
  the gains in household income have gone to the top 20% of
  households. The years 1994-2000 witnessed solid increases in real
  output, low inflation rates, and a drop in unemployment to below 5%.
  Long-term problems include inadequate investment in economic
  infrastructure, rapidly rising medical costs of an aging population,
  sizable trade deficits, and stagnation of family income in the lower
  economic groups. Growth weakened in the fourth quarter of 2000;
  growth for the year 2001 almost certainly will be substantially
  lower than the strong 5% of 2000. The outlook for 2001 is further
  clouded by the continued economic problems of Japan, Russia,
  Indonesia, Brazil, and many other countries.

Uruguay:
  Uruguay's economy is characterized by an export-oriented
  agricultural sector, a well-educated workforce, relatively even
  income distribution, and high levels of social spending. After
  averaging growth of 5% annually in 1996-98, in 1999-2000 the economy
  suffered from lower demand in Argentina and Brazil, which together
  account for about half of Uruguay's exports. Despite the severity of
  the trade shocks, Uruguay's financial indicators remained more
  stable than those of its neighbors, a reflection of its solid
  reputation among investors and its investment-grade sovereign bond
  rating - one of only two in Latin America. Challenges for the
  government of President Jorge BATLLE include expanding Uruguay's
  trade ties beyond its MERCOSUR trade partners and reducing the costs
  of public services. GDP fell by 1.1% in 2000 and will grow by
  perhaps 1.5% in 2001.

Uzbekistan:
  Uzbekistan is a dry, landlocked country of which 10%
  consists of intensely cultivated, irrigated river valleys. More than
  60% of its population lives in densely populated rural communities.
  Uzbekistan is now the world's third largest cotton exporter, a large
  producer of gold and oil, and a regionally significant producer of
  chemicals and machinery. Following independence in December 1991,
  the government sought to prop up its Soviet-style command economy
  with subsidies and tight controls on production and prices. Faced
  with high rates of inflation, however, the government began to
  reform in mid-1994, by introducing tighter monetary policies,
  expanding privatization, slightly reducing the role of the state in
  the economy, and improving the environment for foreign investors.
  The state continues to be a dominating influence in the economy and
  has so far failed to bring about much-needed structural changes. The
  IMF suspended Uzbekistan's $185 million standby arrangement in late
  1996 because of governmental steps that made impossible fulfillment
  of Fund conditions. Uzbekistan has responded to the negative
  external conditions generated by the Asian and Russian financial
  crises by tightening export and currency controls within its already
  largely closed economy. Economic policies that have repelled foreign
  investment are a major factor in the economy's stagnation. A growing
  debt burden, persistent inflation, and a poor business climate led
  to stagnant growth in 2000, with little improvement predicted for
  2001.

Vanuatu:
  The economy is based primarily on subsistence or
  small-scale agriculture which provides a living for 65% of the
  population. Fishing, offshore financial services, and tourism, with
  about 50,000 visitors in 1997, are other mainstays of the economy.
  Mineral deposits are negligible; the country has no known petroleum
  deposits. A small light industry sector caters to the local market.
  Tax revenues come mainly from import duties. Economic development is
  hindered by dependence on relatively few commodity exports,
  vulnerability to natural disasters, and long distances from main
  markets and between constituent islands. The most recent natural
  disaster, a severe earthquake in November 1999 followed by a
  tsunami, caused extensive damage to the northern island of Pentecote
  and left thousands homeless. GDP growth has risen less than 3% on
  average in the 1990s. In response to foreign concerns, the
  government is moving to tighten regulation of its offshore financial
  center.

Venezuela:
  The petroleum sector dominates the economy, accounting
  for roughly a third of GDP, around 80% of export earnings, and more
  than half of government operating revenues. Venezuelan officials
  estimate that GDP grew by 3.2% in 2000. A strong rebound in
  international oil prices fueled the recovery from the steep
  recession in 1999. Nevertheless, a weak nonoil sector and capital
  flight undercut the recovery. The bolivar is widely believed to be
  overvalued by as much as 50%. The government is still rebuilding
  after massive flooding and landslides in December 1999 caused an
  estimated $15 billion to $20 billion in damage.

Vietnam:
  Vietnam is a poor, densely populated country that has had
  to recover from the ravages of war, the loss of financial support
  from the old Soviet Bloc, and the rigidities of a centrally planned
  economy. Substantial progress was achieved from 1986 to 1996 in
  moving forward from an extremely low starting point - growth
  averaged around 9% per year from 1993 to 1997. The 1997 Asian
  financial crisis highlighted the problems existing in the Vietnamese
  economy but, rather than prompting reform, reaffirmed the
  government's belief that shifting to a market oriented economy leads
  to disaster. GDP growth of 8.5% in 1997 fell to 6% in 1998 and 5% in
  1999. Growth continued at the moderately strong level of 5.5%, a
  level that should be matched in 2001. These numbers mask some major
  difficulties in economic performance. Many domestic industries,
  including coal, cement, steel, and paper, have reported large
  stockpiles of inventory and tough competition from more efficient
  foreign producers; this problem apparently eased in 2000. Foreign
  direct investment fell dramatically, from $8.3 billion in 1996 to
  about $1.6 billion in 1999. Meanwhile, Vietnamese authorities have
  moved slowly in implementing the structural reforms needed to
  revitalize the economy and produce more competitive, export-driven
  industries.

Virgin Islands:
  Tourism is the primary economic activity, accounting
  for more than 70% of GDP and 70% of employment. The islands normally
  host 2 million visitors a year. The manufacturing sector consists of
  petroleum refining, textiles, electronics, pharmaceuticals, and
  watch assembly. The agricultural sector is small, with most food
  being imported. International business and financial services are a
  small but growing component of the economy. One of the world's
  largest petroleum refineries is at Saint Croix. The islands are
  subject to substantial damage from storms. The government is working
  to improve fiscal discipline, support construction projects in the
  private sector, expand tourist facilities, and protect the
  environment.

Wake Island:
  Economic activity is limited to providing services to
  contractors located on the island. All food and manufactured goods
  must be imported.

Wallis and Futuna:
  The economy is limited to traditional subsistence
  agriculture, with about 80% of the labor force earning its
  livelihood from agriculture (coconuts and vegetables), livestock
  (mostly pigs), and fishing. About 4% of the population is employed
  in government. Revenues come from French Government subsidies,
  licensing of fishing rights to Japan and South Korea, import taxes,
  and remittances from expatriate workers in New Caledonia.

West Bank:
  Economic output in the West Bank is governed by the Paris
  Economic Protocol of April 1994 between Israel and the Palestinian
  Authority. Real per capita GDP for the West Bank and Gaza Strip
  (WBGS) declined by 36.1% between 1992 and 1996 owing to the combined
  effect of falling aggregate incomes and rapid population growth. The
  downturn in economic activity was largely the result of Israeli
  closure policies - the imposition of border closures in response to
  security incidents in Israel - which disrupted established labor and
  commodity market relationships between Israel and the WBGS. The most
  serious social effect of this downturn was rising unemployment;
  unemployment in the WBGS during the 1980s was generally under 5%; by
  1995 it had risen to over 20%. Since 1997 Israel's use of
  comprehensive closures has decreased and, in 1998, Israel
  implemented new policies to reduce the impact of closures and other
  security procedures on the movement of Palestinian goods and labor.
  These changes fueled an almost three-year long economic recovery in
  the West Bank and Gaza Strip; real GDP grew by 5% in 1998 and 6% in
  1999. Recovery was upended in the last quarter of 2000 with the
  outbreak of Palestinian violence, which triggered tight Israeli
  closures of Palestinian self-rule areas and a severe disruption of
  trade and labor movements.

Western Sahara:
  Western Sahara, a territory poor in natural
  resources and lacking sufficient rainfall, depends on pastoral
  nomadism, fishing, and phosphate mining as the principal sources of
  income for the population. Most of the food for the urban population
  must be imported. All trade and other economic activities are
  controlled by the Moroccan Government. Incomes and standards of
  living are substantially below the Moroccan level.

World:
  Growth in global output (gross world product, GWP) rose to
  4.8% in 2000 from 3.5% in 1999, despite continued low growth in
  Japan, severe financial difficulties in other East Asian countries,
  and widespread dislocations in several transition economies. The US
  economy continued its remarkable sustained prosperity, growing at 5%
  in 2000, although growth slowed in fourth quarter 2000; the US
  accounted for 23% of GWP. The EU economies grew at 3.3% and produced
  20% of GWP. China, the second largest economy in the world,
  continued its strong growth and accounted for 10% of GWP. Japan grew
  at only 1.3% in 2000; its share in GWP is 7%. As usual, the 15
  successor nations of the USSR and the other old Warsaw Pact nations
  experienced widely different rates of growth. The developing nations
  also varied in their growth results, with many countries facing
  population increases that eat up gains in output. Externally, the
  nation-state, as a bedrock economic-political institution, is
  steadily losing control over international flows of people, goods,
  funds, and technology. Internally, the central government often
  finds its control over resources slipping as separatist regional
  movements - typically based on ethnicity - gain momentum, e.g., in
  many of the successor states of the former Soviet Union, in the
  former Yugoslavia, in India, and in Canada. In Western Europe,
  governments face the difficult political problem of channeling
  resources away from welfare programs in order to increase investment
  and strengthen incentives to seek employment. The addition of 80
  million people each year to an already overcrowded globe is
  exacerbating the problems of pollution, desertification,
  underemployment, epidemics, and famine. Because of their own
  internal problems and priorities, the industrialized countries
  devote insufficient resources to deal effectively with the poorer
  areas of the world, which, at least from the economic point of view,
  are becoming further marginalized. Continued financial difficulties
  in East Asia, Russia, and many African nations, as well as the
  slowdown in US economic growth, cast a shadow over short-term global
  economic prospects; GWP probably will grow at 3-4% in 2001. The
  introduction of the euro as the common currency of much of Western
  Europe in January 1999, while paving the way for an integrated
  economic powerhouse, poses serious economic risks because of varying
  levels of income and cultural and political differences among the
  participating nations. (For specific economic developments in each
  country of the world in 2000, see the individual country entries.)

Yemen:
  Yemen, one of the poorest countries in the Arab world,
  reported strong growth in the mid-1990s with the onset of oil
  production, but was harmed by low oil prices in 1998. Yemen has
  embarked on an IMF-supported structural adjustment program designed
  to modernize and streamline the economy, which has led to foreign
  debt relief and restructuring. Aided by higher oil prices in
  1999-2000, Yemen worked to maintain tight control over spending and
  implement additional components of the IMF program. A high
  population growth rate of nearly 3.4% and internal political
  dissension complicate the government's task.

Yugoslavia:
  The swift collapse of the Yugoslav federation in 1991
  was followed by highly destructive warfare, the destabilization of
  republic boundaries, and the breakup of important interrepublic
  trade flows. Output in Yugoslavia dropped by half in 1992-93. Like
  the other former Yugoslav republics, it had depended on its sister
  republics for large amounts of energy and manufactures. Wide
  differences in climate, mineral resources, and levels of technology
  among the republics accentuated this interdependence, as did the
  communist practice of concentrating much industrial output in a
  small number of giant plants. The breakup of many of the trade
  links, the sharp drop in output as industrial plants lost suppliers
  and markets, and the destruction of physical assets in the fighting
  all have contributed to the economic difficulties of the republics.
  Hyperinflation ended with the establishment of a new currency unit
  in June 1993; prices were relatively stable from 1995 through 1997,
  but inflationary pressures resurged in 1998. Reliable statistics
  continue to be hard to come by, and the GDP estimate is extremely
  rough. The economic boom anticipated by the government after the
  suspension of UN sanctions in December 1995 has failed to
  materialize. Government mismanagement of the economy is largely to
  blame, but the damage to Yugoslavia's infrastructure and industry by
  the NATO bombing during the war in Kosovo have added to problems.
  All sanctions now have been lifted. Yugoslavia is in the first stage
  of economic reform. Severe electricity shortages are chronic, the
  result of lack of investment by former regimes, depleted hydropower
  reservoirs due to extended drought, and lack of funds. GDP growth in
  2000 was perhaps 15%, which made up for a large part of the 20%
  decline of 1999.

Zambia:
  Despite progress in privatization and budgetary reform,
  Zambia's economy has a long way to go. Privatization of
  government-owned copper mines relieved the government from covering
  mammoth losses generated by the industry and greatly improved the
  chances for copper mining to return to profitability and spur
  economic growth. In late 2000, Zambia was determined to be eligible
  for debt relief under the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC)
  initiative. Inflation and unemployment rates remain high, but the
  GDP growth rate should rise in 2001.

Zimbabwe:
  The government of Zimbabwe faces a wide variety of
  difficult economic problems as it struggles to consolidate earlier
  moves to develop a market-oriented economy. Its involvement in the
  war in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, for example, has
  already drained hundreds of millions of dollars from the economy.
  Badly needed support from the IMF suffers delays in part because of
  the country's failure to meet budgetary goals. Inflation rose from
  an annual rate of 32% in 1998 to 59% in 1999 and 60% in 2000. The
  economy is being steadily weakened by excessive government deficits
  and AIDS; Zimbabwe has the highest rate of infection in the world.
  Per capita GDP, which is twice the average of the poorer sub-Saharan
  nations, will increase little if any in the near-term, and Zimbabwe
  will suffer continued frustrations in developing its agricultural
  and mineral resources.

Taiwan:
  Taiwan has a dynamic capitalist economy with gradually
  decreasing guidance of investment and foreign trade by government
  authorities. In keeping with this trend, some large government-owned
  banks and industrial firms are being privatized. Real growth in GDP
  has averaged about 8% during the past three decades. Exports have
  grown even faster and have provided the primary impetus for
  industrialization. Inflation and unemployment are low; the trade
  surplus is substantial; and foreign reserves are the world's fourth
  largest. Agriculture contributes 3% to GDP, down from 35% in 1952.
  Traditional labor-intensive industries are steadily being moved
  offshore and replaced with more capital- and technology-intensive
  industries. Taiwan has become a major investor in China, Thailand,
  Indonesia, the Philippines, Malaysia, and Vietnam. The tightening of
  labor markets has led to an influx of foreign workers, both legal
  and illegal. Because of its conservative financial approach and its
  entrepreneurial strengths, Taiwan suffered little compared with many
  of its neighbors from the Asian financial crisis in 1998-99. Growth
  in 2001 will depend largely on conditions in Taiwan's export markets
  and may be about 5%.

======================================================================

@Electricity - consumption



Afghanistan:
  480.6 million kWh (1999)

Albania:
  5.379 billion kWh (1999)

Algeria:
  21.613 billion kWh (1999)

American Samoa:
  120.9 million kWh (1999)

Andorra:
  NA kWh

Angola:
  1.372 billion kWh (1999)

Anguilla:
  NA kWh

Antigua and Barbuda:
  88.4 million kWh (1999)

Argentina:
  77.111 billion kWh (1999)

Armenia:
  6.201 billion kWh (1999)

Aruba:
  418.5 million kWh (1999)

Australia:
  178.306 billion kWh (1999)

Austria:
  53.231 billion kWh (1999)

Azerbaijan:
  15.432 billion kWh (1999)

Bahamas, The:
  1.362 billion kWh (1999)

Bahrain:
  5.752 billion kWh (1999)

Bangladesh:
  11.216 billion kWh (1999)

Barbados:
  667.7 million kWh (1999)

Belarus:
  27.647 billion kWh (1999)

Belgium:
  75.089 billion kWh (1999)

Belize:
  172.1 million kWh (1999)

Benin:
  510.2 million kWh (1999)

Bermuda:
  511.5 million kWh (1999)

Bhutan:
  191.1 million kWh (1999)

Bolivia:
  3.377 billion kWh (1999)

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  2.684 billion kWh (1999)

Botswana:
  1.517 billion kWh (1999)

Brazil:
  353.674 billion kWh (1999)

British Indian Ocean Territory:
  NA kWh

British Virgin Islands:
  39.1 million kWh (1999)

Brunei:
  2.274 billion kWh (1999)

Bulgaria:
  33.182 billion kWh (1999)

Burkina Faso:
  265.1 million kWh (1999)

Burma:
  4.476 billion kWh (1999)

Burundi:
  160.1 million kWh (1999)

Cambodia:
  136.7 million kWh (1999)

Cameroon:
  3.227 billion kWh (1999)

Canada:
  497.532 billion kWh (1999)

Cape Verde:
  37.2 million kWh (1999)

Cayman Islands:
  306.9 million kWh (1999)

Central African Republic:
  94.9 million kWh (1999)

Chad:
  83.7 million kWh (1999)

Chile:
  35.426 billion kWh (1999)

China:
  1.084 trillion kWh (1999)

Christmas Island:
  NA kWh

Cocos (Keeling) Islands:
  NA kWh

Colombia:
  40.532 billion kWh (1999)

Comoros:
  15.8 million kWh (1999)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  4.55 billion kWh (1999)

Congo, Republic of the:
  406.9 million kWh (1999)

Cook Islands:
  19.5 million kWh (1999)

Costa Rica:
  5.303 billion kWh (1999)

Cote d'Ivoire:
  3.183 billion kWh (1999)

Croatia:
  13.643 billion kWh (1999)

Cuba:
  13.353 billion kWh (1999)

Cyprus:
  2.744 billion kWh (1999); Turkish Cypriot area: NA kWh

Czech Republic:
  52.898 billion kWh (2000)

Denmark:
  32.916 billion kWh (1999)

Djibouti:
  167.4 million kWh (1999)

Dominica:
  57.7 million kWh (1999)

Dominican Republic:
  6.78 billion kWh (1999)

Ecuador:
  9.386 billion kWh (1999)

Egypt:
  60.157 billion kWh (1999)

El Salvador:
  3.638 billion kWh (1999)

Equatorial Guinea:
  19.5 million kWh (1999)

Eritrea:
  153.5 million kWh (1999)

Estonia:
  6.807 billion kWh (1999)

Ethiopia:
  1.511 billion kWh (1999)

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas):
  11.2 million kWh (1999)

Faroe Islands:
  158.1 million kWh (1999)

Fiji:
  474.3 million kWh (1999)

Finland:
  81.611 billion kWh (1999)

France:
  398.752 billion kWh (1999)

French Guiana:
  409.2 million kWh (1999)

French Polynesia:
  399.9 million kWh (1999)

Gabon:
  948.6 million kWh (1999)

Gambia, The:
  69.8 million kWh (1999)

Gaza Strip:
  NA kWh

Georgia:
  7.117 billion kWh (1999)

Germany:
  495.181 billion kWh (1999)

Ghana:
  5.573 billion kWh (1999)

Gibraltar:
  88.4 million kWh (1999)

Greece:
  43.343 billion kWh (1999)

Greenland:
  232.5 million kWh (1999)

Grenada:
  111.6 million kWh (1999)

Guadeloupe:
  1.209 billion kWh (1999)

Guam:
  744 million kWh (1999)

Guatemala:
  3.295 billion kWh (1999)

Guernsey:
  NA kWh

Guinea:
  697.5 million kWh (1999)

Guinea-Bissau:
  51.2 million kWh (1999)

Guyana:
  423.2 million kWh (1999)

Haiti:
  625 million kWh (1999)

Holy See (Vatican City):
  NA kWh

Honduras:
  3.232 billion kWh (1999)

Hong Kong:
  32.202 billion kWh (1999)

Hungary:
  35.234 billion kWh (1999)

Iceland:
  6.574 billion kWh (1999)

India:
  424.032 billion kWh (1999)

Indonesia:
  73.167 billion kWh (1999)

Iran:
  95.84 billion kWh (1999)

Iraq:
  27.361 billion kWh (1999)

Ireland:
  18.414 billion kWh (1999)

Israel:
  31.899 billion kWh (1999)

Italy:
  272.35 billion kWh (1999)

Jamaica:
  6.073 billion kWh (1999)

Japan:
  947.038 billion kWh (1999)

Johnston Atoll:
  NA kWh

Jordan:
  6.594 billion kWh (1999)

Kazakhstan:
  44.132 billion kWh (1999)

Kenya:
  4.075 billion kWh (1999)

Kiribati:
  6.5 million kWh (1999)

Korea, North:
  26.598 billion kWh (1999)

Korea, South:
  232.767 billion kWh (1999)

Kuwait:
  29.357 billion kWh (1999)

Kyrgyzstan:
  10.236 billion kWh (1999)

Laos:
  173.6 million kWh (1999)

Latvia:
  4.316 billion kWh (1999)

Lebanon:
  7.86 billion kWh (1999)

Lesotho:
  55 million kWh (1999)

Liberia:
  401.8 million kWh (1999)

Libya:
  17.577 billion kWh (1999)

Liechtenstein:
  NA kWh

Lithuania:
  9.817 billion kWh (1999)

Luxembourg:
  6.149 billion kWh (1999)

Macau:
  1.422 billion kWh (1999)

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  5.992 billion kWh (1999)

Madagascar:
  753.3 million kWh (1999)

Malawi:
  950 million kWh (1999)

Malaysia:
  54.872 billion kWh (1999)

Maldives:
  93.9 million kWh (1999)

Mali:
  413.9 million kWh (1999)

Malta:
  1.534 billion kWh (1999)

Martinique:
  1.023 billion kWh (1999)

Mauritania:
  140.4 million kWh (1999)

Mauritius:
  1.172 billion kWh (1999)

Mayotte:
  NA kWh

Mexico:
  170.754 billion kWh (1999)

Micronesia, Federated States of:
  NA kWh

Moldova:
  5.78 billion kWh (1999)

Monaco:
  NA kWh

Mongolia:
  2.767 billion kWh (1999)

Montserrat:
  9.3 million kWh (1999)

Morocco:
  13.441 billion kWh (1999)

Mozambique:
  307 million kWh (1999)

Namibia:
  1.948 billion kWh (1999)

Nauru:
  27.9 million kWh (1999)

Nepal:
  1.309 billion kWh (1999)

Netherlands:
  97.76 billion kWh (1999)

Netherlands Antilles:
  1.032 billion kWh (1999)

New Caledonia:
  1.414 billion kWh (1999)

New Zealand:
  35.295 billion kWh (1999)

Nicaragua:
  2.265 billion kWh (1999)

Niger:
  401 million kWh (1999)

Nigeria:
  17.372 billion kWh (1999)

Niue:
  2.8 million kWh (1999)

Norfolk Island:
  NA kWh

Northern Mariana Islands:
  NA kWh

Norway:
  110.795 billion kWh (1999)

Oman:
  8.026 billion kWh (1999)

Pakistan:
  57.732 billion kWh (1999)

Panama:
  4.049 billion kWh (1999)

Papua New Guinea:
  1.693 billion kWh (1999)

Paraguay:
  1.915 billion kWh (1999)

Peru:
  17.565 billion kWh (1999)

Philippines:
  37.893 billion kWh (1999)

Pitcairn Islands:
  NA kWh

Poland:
  120.007 billion kWh (1999)

Portugal:
  37.915 billion kWh (1999)

Puerto Rico:
  15.587 billion kWh (1999)

Qatar:
  8.37 billion kWh (1999)

Reunion:
  1.023 billion kWh (1999)

Romania:
  44.768 billion kWh (1999)

Russia:
  728.2 billion kWh (1999)

Rwanda:
  191.8 million kWh (1999)

Saint Helena:
  5.6 million kWh (1999)

Saint Kitts and Nevis:
  83.7 million kWh (1999)

Saint Lucia:
  102.3 million kWh (1999)

Saint Pierre and Miquelon:
  37.2 million kWh (1999)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:
  76.3 million kWh (1999)

Samoa:
  93 million kWh (1999)

San Marino:
  NA kWh

Sao Tome and Principe:
  15.8 million kWh (1999)

Saudi Arabia:
  111.6 billion kWh (1999)

Senegal:
  1.181 billion kWh (1999)

Seychelles:
  148.8 million kWh (1999)

Sierra Leone:
  223.2 million kWh (1999)

Singapore:
  25.464 billion kWh (1999)

Slovakia:
  21.471 billion kWh (1999)

Slovenia:
  10.024 billion kWh (1999)

Solomon Islands:
  27.9 million kWh (1999)

Somalia:
  241.8 million kWh (1999)

South Africa:
  172.393 billion kWh (1999)

South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands:
  NA kWh

Spain:
  189.57 billion kWh (1999)

Sri Lanka:
  5.604 billion kWh (1999)

Sudan:
  1.637 billion kWh (1999)

Suriname:
  1.801 billion kWh (1999)

Svalbard:
  NA kWh

Swaziland:
  198 million kWh (1999)

Sweden:
  128.819 billion kWh (1999)

Switzerland:
  51.862 billion kWh (1999)

Syria:
  16.684 billion kWh (1999)

Tajikistan:
  14.729 billion kWh (1999)

Tanzania:
  2.134 billion kWh (1999)

Thailand:
  83.991 billion kWh (1999)

Togo:
  511.6 million kWh (1999)

Tokelau:
  NA kWh

Tonga:
  32.6 million kWh (1999)

Trinidad and Tobago:
  4.557 billion kWh (1999)

Tunisia:
  8.677 billion kWh (1999)

Turkey:
  119.5 billion kWh (2000 est.)

Turkmenistan:
  4.785 billion kWh (1999)

Turks and Caicos Islands:
  4.6 million kWh (1999)

Uganda:
  1.06 billion kWh (1999)

Ukraine:
  146.675 billion kWh (1999)

United Arab Emirates:
  34.131 billion kWh (1999)

United Kingdom:
  333.012 billion kWh (1999)

United States:
  3.45 trillion kWh (1999)

Uruguay:
  5.89 billion kWh (1999)

Uzbekistan:
  43.455 billion kWh (1999)

Vanuatu:
  32.6 million kWh (1999)

Venezuela:
  75.53 billion kWh (1999)

Vietnam:
  21.376 billion kWh (1999)

Virgin Islands:
  948.6 million kWh (1999)

Wallis and Futuna:
  NA kWh

West Bank:
  NA kWh

Western Sahara:
  83.7 million kWh (1999)

Yemen:
  2.232 billion kWh (1999)

Yugoslavia:
  33.006 billion kWh (1999)

Zambia:
  5.926 billion kWh (1999)

Zimbabwe:
  6.939 billion kWh (1999)

Taiwan:
  129.899 billion kWh (1999)

======================================================================

@Electricity - exports



Afghanistan:
  0 kWh (1999)

Albania:
  100 million kWh (1999)

Algeria:
  307 million kWh (1999)

American Samoa:
  0 kWh (1999)

Andorra:
  NA kWh

Angola:
  0 kWh (1999)

Antigua and Barbuda:
  0 kWh (1999)

Argentina:
  1.08 billion kWh (1999)

Armenia:
  0 kWh (1999)

Aruba:
  0 kWh (1999)

Australia:
  0 kWh (1999)

Austria:
  13.507 billion kWh (1999)

Azerbaijan:
  600 million kWh (1999)

Bahamas, The:
  0 kWh (1999)

Bahrain:
  0 kWh (1999)

Bangladesh:
  0 kWh (1999)

Barbados:
  0 kWh (1999)

Belarus:
  2.62 billion kWh (1999)

Belgium:
  8.207 billion kWh (1999)

Belize:
  0 kWh (1999)

Benin:
  0 kWh (1999)

Bermuda:
  0 kWh (1999)

Bhutan:
  1.55 billion kWh (1999)

Bolivia:
  4 million kWh (1999)

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  150 million kWh (1999)

Botswana:
  0 kWh (1999)

Brazil:
  5 million kWh (1999)

British Virgin Islands:
  0 kWh (1999)

Brunei:
  0 kWh (1999)

Bulgaria:
  2.2 billion kWh (1999)

Burkina Faso:
  0 kWh (1999)

Burma:
  0 kWh (1999)

Burundi:
  0 kWh (1999)

Cambodia:
  0 kWh (1999)

Cameroon:
  0 kWh (1999)

Canada:
  42.911 billion kWh (1999)

Cape Verde:
  0 kWh (1999)

Cayman Islands:
  0 kWh (1999)

Central African Republic:
  0 kWh (1999)

Chad:
  0 kWh (1999)

Chile:
  0 kWh (1999)

China:
  7.2 billion kWh (1999)

Colombia:
  27 million kWh (1999)

Comoros:
  0 kWh (1999)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  404 million kWh (1999)

Congo, Republic of the:
  0 kWh (1999)

Cook Islands:
  0 kWh (1999)

Costa Rica:
  165 million kWh (1999)

Cote d'Ivoire:
  593 million kWh (1999)

Croatia:
  1 billion kWh (1999)

Cuba:
  0 kWh (1999)

Cyprus:
  0 kWh (1999)

Czech Republic:
  18.744 billion kWh (2000)

Denmark:
  7.28 billion kWh (1999)

Djibouti:
  0 kWh (1999)

Dominica:
  0 kWh (1999)

Dominican Republic:
  0 kWh (1999)

Ecuador:
  0 kWh (1999)

Egypt:
  0 kWh (1999)

El Salvador:
  208 million kWh (1999)

Equatorial Guinea:
  0 kWh (1999)

Eritrea:
  0 kWh NA kWh (1999)

Estonia:
  530 million kWh (1999)

Ethiopia:
  0 kWh (1999)

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas):
  0 kWh (1999)

Faroe Islands:
  0 kWh (1999)

Fiji:
  0 kWh (1999)

Finland:
  232 million kWh (1999)

France:
  68.7 billion kWh (1999)

French Guiana:
  0 kWh (1999)

French Polynesia:
  0 kWh (1999)

Gabon:
  0 kWh (1999)

Gambia, The:
  0 kWh (1999)

Gaza Strip:
  0 kWh (1999)

Georgia:
  850 million kWh (1999)

Germany:
  39.5 billion kWh (1999)

Ghana:
  400 million kWh (1999)

Gibraltar:
  0 kWh (1999)

Greece:
  1.65 billion kWh (1999)

Greenland:
  0 kWh (1999)

Grenada:
  0 kWh (1999)

Guadeloupe:
  0 kWh (1999)

Guam:
  0 kWh (1999)

Guatemala:
  435 million kWh (1999)

Guernsey:
  NA kWh

Guinea:
  0 kWh (1999)

Guinea-Bissau:
  0 kWh (1999)

Guyana:
  0 kWh (1999)

Haiti:
  0 kWh (1999)

Honduras:
  0 kWh (1999)

Hong Kong:
  633 million kWh (1999)

Hungary:
  2.35 billion kWh (1999)

Iceland:
  0 kWh (1999)

India:
  200 million kWh (1999)

Indonesia:
  0 kWh (1999)

Iran:
  0 kWh (1999)

Iraq:
  0 kWh (1999)

Ireland:
  50 million kWh (1999)

Israel:
  1.061 billion kWh (1999)

Italy:
  530 million kWh (1999)

Jamaica:
  0 kWh (1999)

Japan:
  0 kWh (1999)

Jordan:
  4 million kWh (1999)

Kazakhstan:
  200 million kWh (1999)

Kenya:
  0 kWh (1999)

Kiribati:
  0 kWh (1999)

Korea, North:
  0 kWh (1999)

Korea, South:
  0 kWh (1999)

Kuwait:
  0 kWh (1999)

Kyrgyzstan:
  2.02 billion kWh (1999)

Laos:
  705 million kWh (1999)

Latvia:
  400 million kWh (1999)

Lebanon:
  0 kWh (1999)

Lesotho:
  0 kWh (1999)

Liberia:
  0 kWh (1999)

Libya:
  0 kWh (1999)

Liechtenstein:
  NA kWh

Lithuania:
  3.2 billion kWh (1999)

Luxembourg:
  655 million kWh (1999)

Macau:
  3 million kWh (1999)

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  30 million kWh (1999)

Madagascar:
  0 kWh (1999)

Malawi:
  3 million kWh (1999)

Malaysia:
  50 million kWh (1999)

Maldives:
  0 kWh (1999)

Mali:
  0 kWh (1999)

Malta:
  0 kWh (1999)

Martinique:
  0 kWh (1999)

Mauritania:
  0 kWh (1999)

Mauritius:
  0 kWh (1999)

Mexico:
  11 million kWh (1999)

Moldova:
  0 kWh (1999)

Mongolia:
  80 million kWh (1999)

Montserrat:
  0 kWh (1999)

Morocco:
  0 kWh (1999)

Mozambique:
  1.9 billion kWh (1999)

Namibia:
  56 million kWh (1999)

Nauru:
  0 kWh (1999)

Nepal:
  68 million kWh (1999)

Netherlands:
  3.97 billion kWh (1999)

Netherlands Antilles:
  0 kWh (1999)

New Caledonia:
  0 kWh (1999)

New Zealand:
  0 kWh (1999)

Nicaragua:
  20 million kWh (1999)

Niger:
  0 kWh (1999)

Nigeria:
  19 million kWh (1999)

Niue:
  0 kWh (1999)

Norway:
  8.28 billion kWh (1999)

Oman:
  0 kWh (1999)

Pakistan:
  0 kWh (1999)

Panama:
  95 million kWh (1999)

Papua New Guinea:
  0 kWh (1999)

Paraguay:
  46.03 billion kWh (1999)

Peru:
  0 kWh (1999)

Philippines:
  0 kWh (1999)

Poland:
  8.43 billion kWh (1999)

Portugal:
  4.49 billion kWh (1999)

Puerto Rico:
  0 kWh (1999)

Qatar:
  0 kWh (1999)

Reunion:
  0 kWh (1999)

Romania:
  1.935 billion kWh (1999)

Russia:
  20 billion kWh (1999)

Rwanda:
  1 million kWh (1999)

Saint Helena:
  0 kWh (1999)

Saint Kitts and Nevis:
  0 kWh (1999)

Saint Lucia:
  0 kWh (1999)

Saint Pierre and Miquelon:
  0 kWh (1999)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:
  0 kWh (1999)

Samoa:
  0 kWh (1999)

San Marino:
  0 kWh

  note:  electric power supplied by Italy (1999)

Sao Tome and Principe:
  0 kWh (1999)

Saudi Arabia:
  0 kWh (1999)

Senegal:
  0 kWh (1999)

Seychelles:
  0 kWh (1999)

Sierra Leone:
  0 kWh (1999)

Singapore:
  0 kWh (1999)

Slovakia:
  930 million kWh (1999)

Slovenia:
  2.2 billion kWh (1999)

Solomon Islands:
  0 kWh (1999)

Somalia:
  0 kWh (1999)

South Africa:
  3.884 billion kWh (1999)

Spain:
  6.23 billion kWh (1999)

Sri Lanka:
  0 kWh (1999)

Sudan:
  0 kWh (1999)

Suriname:
  0 kWh (1999)

Swaziland:
  852 million kWh (1999)

Sweden:
  15.9 billion kWh (1999)

Switzerland:
  31.955 billion kWh (1999)

Syria:
  0 kWh (1999)

Tajikistan:
  3.9 billion kWh (1999)

Tanzania:
  0 kWh (1999)

Thailand:
  200 million kWh (1999)

Togo:
  0 kWh (1999)

Tonga:
  0 kWh (1999)

Trinidad and Tobago:
  0 kWh (1999)

Tunisia:
  19 million kWh (1999)

Turkey:
  350 million kWh (2000 est.)

Turkmenistan:
  4.1 billion kWh (1999)

Turks and Caicos Islands:
  0 kWh (1999)

Uganda:
  174 million kWh (1999)

Ukraine:
  2.3 billion kWh (1999)

United Arab Emirates:
  0 kWh (1999)

United Kingdom:
  265 million kWh (1999)

United States:
  14 billion kWh (1999)

Uruguay:
  215 million kWh (1999)

Uzbekistan:
  3.92 billion kWh (1999)

Vanuatu:
  0 kWh (1999)

Venezuela:
  0 kWh (1999)

Vietnam:
  0 kWh (1999)

Virgin Islands:
  0 kWh (1999)

Western Sahara:
  0 kWh (1999)

Yemen:
  0 kWh (1999)

Yugoslavia:
  960 million kWh (1999)

Zambia:
  1.6 billion kWh (1999)

Zimbabwe:
  0 kWh (1999)

Taiwan:
  0 kWh (1999)

======================================================================

@Electricity - imports



Afghanistan:
  90 million kWh (1999)

Albania:
  600 million kWh (2000)

Algeria:
  330 million kWh (1999)

American Samoa:
  0 kWh (1999)

Andorra:
  NA kWh

  note:  most electricity supplied by Spain and France; Andorra
  generates a small amount of hydropower

Angola:
  0 kWh (1999)

Antigua and Barbuda:
  0 kWh (1999)

Argentina:
  6.5 billion kWh (1999)

Armenia:
  0 kWh (1999)

Aruba:
  0 kWh (1999)

Australia:
  0 kWh (1999)

Austria:
  11.605 billion kWh (1999)

Azerbaijan:
  800 million kWh (1999)

Bahamas, The:
  0 kWh (1999)

Bahrain:
  0 kWh (1999)

Bangladesh:
  0 kWh (1999)

Barbados:
  0 kWh (1999)

Belarus:
  7.1 billion kWh (1999)

Belgium:
  9.055 billion kWh (1999)

Belize:
  0 kWh (1999)

Benin:
  300 million kWh (1999)

Bermuda:
  0 kWh (1999)

Bhutan:
  15 million kWh (1999)

Bolivia:
  10 million kWh (1999)

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  430 million kWh (1999)

Botswana:
  950 million kWh (1999)

Brazil:
  39.86 billion kWh

  note:  supplied by Paraguay (1999)

British Virgin Islands:
  0 kWh (1999)

Brunei:
  0 kWh (1999)

Bulgaria:
  1.7 billion kWh (1999)

Burkina Faso:
  0 kWh (1999)

Burma:
  0 kWh (1999)

Burundi:
  29 million kWh

  note:  supplied by the Democratic Republic of the Congo (1999)

Cambodia:
  0 kWh (1999)

Cameroon:
  0 kWh (1999)

Canada:
  12.953 billion kWh (1999)

Cape Verde:
  0 kWh (1999)

Cayman Islands:
  0 kWh (1999)

Central African Republic:
  0 kWh (1999)

Chad:
  0 kWh (1999)

Chile:
  0 kWh (1999)

China:
  90 million kWh (1999)

Colombia:
  35 million kWh (1999)

Comoros:
  0 kWh (1999)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  55 million kWh (1999)

Congo, Republic of the:
  126 million kWh (1999)

Cook Islands:
  0 kWh (1999)

Costa Rica:
  69 million kWh (1999)

Cote d'Ivoire:
  0 kWh (1999)

Croatia:
  4.45 billion kWh (1999)

Cuba:
  0 kWh (1999)

Cyprus:
  0 kWh (1999)

Czech Republic:
  8.735 billion kWh (2000)

Denmark:
  4.963 billion kWh (1999)

Djibouti:
  0 kWh (1999)

Dominica:
  0 kWh (1999)

Dominican Republic:
  0 kWh (1999)

Ecuador:
  25 million kWh (1999)

Egypt:
  0 kWh (1999)

El Salvador:
  460 million kWh (1999)

Equatorial Guinea:
  0 kWh (1999)

Eritrea:
  0 kWh NA kWh (1999)

Estonia:
  100 million kWh (1999)

Ethiopia:
  0 kWh (1999)

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas):
  0 kWh (1999)

Faroe Islands:
  0 kWh (1999)

Fiji:
  0 kWh (1999)

Finland:
  11.356 billion kWh (1999)

France:
  5 billion kWh (1999)

French Guiana:
  0 kWh (1999)

French Polynesia:
  0 kWh (1999)

Gabon:
  0 kWh (1999)

Gambia, The:
  0 kWh (1999)

Gaza Strip:
  NA kWh; note - electricity supplied by Israel

Georgia:
  550 million kWh (1999)

Germany:
  40.5 billion kWh (1999)

Ghana:
  890 million kWh (1999)

Gibraltar:
  0 kWh (1999)

Greece:
  1.811 billion kWh (1999)

Greenland:
  0 kWh (1999)

Grenada:
  0 kWh (1999)

Guadeloupe:
  0 kWh (1999)

Guam:
  0 kWh (1999)

Guatemala:
  210 million kWh (1999)

Guernsey:
  NA kWh

Guinea:
  0 kWh (1999)

Guinea-Bissau:
  0 kWh (1999)

Guyana:
  0 kWh (1999)

Haiti:
  0 kWh (1999)

Holy See (Vatican City):
  NA kWh; note - electricity supplied by Italy

Honduras:
  145 million kWh (1999)

Hong Kong:
  7.05 billion kWh (1999)

Hungary:
  3.406 billion kWh (1999)

Iceland:
  0 kWh (1999)

India:
  1.49 billion kWh (1999)

Indonesia:
  0 kWh (1999)

Iran:
  0 kWh (1999)

Iraq:
  0 kWh (1999)

Ireland:
  290 million kWh (1999)

Israel:
  4 million kWh (1999)

Italy:
  42.539 billion kWh (1999)

Jamaica:
  0 kWh (1999)

Japan:
  0 kWh (1999)

Jersey:
  NA kWh

  note:  electricity supplied by France

Jordan:
  407 million kWh (1999)

Kazakhstan:
  3.077 billion kWh (1999)

Kenya:
  146 million kWh (1999)

Kiribati:
  0 kWh (1999)

Korea, North:
  0 kWh (1999)

Korea, South:
  0 kWh (1999)

Kuwait:
  0 kWh (1999)

Kyrgyzstan:
  184 million kWh (1999)

Laos:
  142 million kWh (1999)

Latvia:
  1 billion kWh (1999)

Lebanon:
  654 million kWh (1999)

Lesotho:
  55 million kWh

  note:  electricity supplied by South Africa (1999)

Liberia:
  0 kWh (1999)

Libya:
  0 kWh (1999)

Liechtenstein:
  NA kWh

Lithuania:
  400 million kWh (1999)

Luxembourg:
  6.201 billion kWh (1999)

Macau:
  165 million kWh (1999)

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  75 million kWh (1999)

Madagascar:
  0 kWh (1999)

Malawi:
  0 kWh (1999)

Malaysia:
  11 million kWh (1999)

Maldives:
  0 kWh (1999)

Mali:
  0 kWh (1999)

Malta:
  0 kWh (1999)

Martinique:
  0 kWh (1999)

Mauritania:
  0 kWh (1999)

Mauritius:
  0 kWh (1999)

Mexico:
  1.047 billion kWh (1999)

Moldova:
  1.916 billion kWh (1999)

Monaco:
  NA kWh

  note:  electricity supplied by France (1999)

Mongolia:
  363 million kWh (1999)

Montserrat:
  0 kWh (1999)

Morocco:
  705 million kWh (1999)

Mozambique:
  68 million kWh (1999)

Namibia:
  890 million kWh

  note:  supplied by South Africa (1999)

Nauru:
  0 kWh (1999)

Nepal:
  210 million kWh (1999)

Netherlands:
  22.407 billion kWh (1999)

Netherlands Antilles:
  0 kWh (1999)

New Caledonia:
  0 kWh (1999)

New Zealand:
  0 kWh (1999)

Nicaragua:
  100 million kWh (1999)

Niger:
  215 million kWh (1999)

Nigeria:
  0 kWh (1999)

Niue:
  0 kWh (1999)

Norway:
  6.467 billion kWh (1999)

Oman:
  0 kWh (1999)

Pakistan:
  0 kWh (1999)

Panama:
  40 million kWh (1999)

Papua New Guinea:
  0 kWh (1999)

Paraguay:
  0 kWh (1999)

Peru:
  1 million kWh (1999)

Philippines:
  0 kWh (1999)

Poland:
  3.491 billion kWh (1999)

Portugal:
  3.628 billion kWh (1999)

Puerto Rico:
  0 kWh (1999)

Qatar:
  0 kWh (1999)

Reunion:
  0 kWh (1999)

Romania:
  1.1 billion kWh (1999)

Russia:
  6 billion kWh (1999)

Rwanda:
  70 million kWh (1999)

Saint Helena:
  0 kWh (1999)

Saint Kitts and Nevis:
  0 kWh (1999)

Saint Lucia:
  0 kWh (1999)

Saint Pierre and Miquelon:
  0 kWh (1999)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:
  0 kWh (1999)

Samoa:
  0 kWh (1999)

San Marino:
  NA kWh

  note:  electricity supplied by Italy

Sao Tome and Principe:
  0 kWh (1999)

Saudi Arabia:
  0 kWh (1999)

Senegal:
  0 kWh (1999)

Seychelles:
  0 kWh (1999)

Sierra Leone:
  0 kWh (1999)

Singapore:
  0 kWh (1999)

Slovakia:
  1.4 billion kWh (1999)

Slovenia:
  645 million kWh (1999)

Solomon Islands:
  0 kWh (1999)

Somalia:
  0 kWh (1999)

South Africa:
  2.457 billion kWh (1999)

Spain:
  11.945 billion kWh (1999)

Sri Lanka:
  0 kWh (1999)

Sudan:
  0 kWh (1999)

Suriname:
  0 kWh (1999)

Swaziland:
  701 million kWh

  note:  supplied by South Africa (1999)

Sweden:
  8.35 billion kWh (1999)

Switzerland:
  21.723 billion kWh (1999)

Syria:
  0 kWh (1999)

Tajikistan:
  4.1 billion kWh (1999)

Tanzania:
  43 million kWh (1999)

Thailand:
  1.02 billion kWh (1999)

Togo:
  426 million kWh

  note:  electricity supplied by Ghana (1999)

Tonga:
  0 kWh (1999)

Trinidad and Tobago:
  0 kWh (1999)

Tunisia:
  165 million kWh (1999)

Turkey:
  3.35 billion kWh (2000 est.)

Turkmenistan:
  1.1 billion kWh (1999)

Turks and Caicos Islands:
  0 kWh (1999)

Uganda:
  1 million kWh (1999)

Ukraine:
  2.2 billion kWh (1999)

United Arab Emirates:
  0 kWh (1999)

United Kingdom:
  14.5 billion kWh (1999)

United States:
  43 billion kWh (1999)

Uruguay:
  800 million kWh (1999)

Uzbekistan:
  7.5 billion kWh (1999)

Vanuatu:
  0 kWh (1999)

Venezuela:
  0 kWh (1999)

Vietnam:
  0 kWh (1999)

Virgin Islands:
  0 kWh (1999)

West Bank:
  NA kWh

Western Sahara:
  0 kWh (1999)

Yemen:
  0 kWh (1999)

Yugoslavia:
  1.923 billion kWh (1999)

Zambia:
  419 million kWh (1999)

Zimbabwe:
  1.564 billion kWh (1999)

Taiwan:
  0 kWh (1999)

======================================================================

@Electricity - production



Afghanistan:
  420 million kWh (1999)

Albania:
  5.332 billion kWh (1999)

Algeria:
  23.215 billion kWh (1999)

American Samoa:
  130 million kWh (1999)

Angola:
  1.475 billion kWh (1999)

Anguilla:
  NA kWh

Antigua and Barbuda:
  95 million kWh (1999)

Argentina:
  77.087 billion kWh (1999)

Armenia:
  6.668 billion kWh (1999)

Aruba:
  450 million kWh (1999)

Australia:
  191.727 billion kWh (1999)

Austria:
  59.283 billion kWh (1999)

Azerbaijan:
  16.378 billion kWh (1999)

Bahamas, The:
  1.465 billion kWh (1999)

Bahrain:
  6.185 billion kWh (1999)

Bangladesh:
  12.06 billion kWh (1999)

Barbados:
  718 million kWh (1999)

Belarus:
  24.911 billion kWh (1999)

Belgium:
  79.829 billion kWh (1999)

Belize:
  185 million kWh (1999)

Benin:
  226 million kWh (1999)

Bermuda:
  550 million kWh (1999)

Bhutan:
  1.856 billion kWh (1999)

Bolivia:
  3.625 billion kWh (1999)

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  2.585 billion kWh (1999)

Botswana:
  610 million kWh (1999)

Brazil:
  337.44 billion kWh (1999)

British Indian Ocean Territory:
  NA kWh; note - electricity supplied
  by the US military

British Virgin Islands:
  42 million kWh (1999)

Brunei:
  2.445 billion kWh (1999)

Bulgaria:
  36.217 billion kWh (1999)

Burkina Faso:
  285 million kWh (1999)

Burma:
  4.813 billion kWh (1999)

Burundi:
  141 million kWh (1999)

Cambodia:
  147 million kWh (1999)

Cameroon:
  3.47 billion kWh (1999)

Canada:
  567.193 billion kWh (1999)

Cape Verde:
  40 million kWh (1999)

Cayman Islands:
  330 million kWh (1999)

Central African Republic:
  102 million kWh (1999)

Chad:
  90 million kWh (1999)

Chile:
  38.092 billion kWh (1999)

China:
  1.173 trillion kWh (1999)

Christmas Island:
  NA kWh

Cocos (Keeling) Islands:
  NA kWh

Colombia:
  43.574 billion kWh (1999)

Comoros:
  17 million kWh (1999)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  5.268 billion kWh (1999)

Congo, Republic of the:
  302 million kWh (1999)

Cook Islands:
  21 million kWh (1999)

Costa Rica:
  5.805 billion kWh (1999)

Cote d'Ivoire:
  4.06 billion kWh (1999)

Croatia:
  10.96 billion kWh (1999)

Cuba:
  14.358 billion kWh (1999)

Cyprus:
  2.951 billion kWh (1999); Turkish Cypriot area: NA kWh

Czech Republic:
  67.642 billion kWh (2000)

Denmark:
  37.885 billion kWh (1999)

Djibouti:
  180 million kWh (1999)

Dominica:
  62 million kWh (1999)

Dominican Republic:
  7.29 billion kWh (1999)

Ecuador:
  10.065 billion kWh (1999)

Egypt:
  64.685 billion kWh (1999)

El Salvador:
  3.641 billion kWh (1999)

Equatorial Guinea:
  21 million kWh (1999)

Eritrea:
  165 million kWh (1999)

Estonia:
  7.782 billion kWh (1999)

Ethiopia:
  1.625 billion kWh (1999)

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas):
  12 million kWh (1999)

Faroe Islands:
  170 million kWh (1999)

Fiji:
  510 million kWh (1999)

Finland:
  75.792 billion kWh (1999)

France:
  497.26 billion kWh (1999)

French Guiana:
  440 million kWh (1999)

French Polynesia:
  430 million kWh (1999)

Gabon:
  1.02 billion kWh (1999)

Gambia, The:
  75 million kWh (1999)

Gaza Strip:
  NA kWh; note - electricity supplied by Israel

Georgia:
  7.975 billion kWh (1999)

Germany:
  531.377 billion kWh (1999)

Ghana:
  5.466 billion kWh (1999)

Gibraltar:
  95 million kWh (1999)

Greece:
  46.432 billion kWh (1999)

Greenland:
  250 million kWh (1999)

Grenada:
  120 million kWh (1999)

Guadeloupe:
  1.3 billion kWh (1999)

Guam:
  800 million kWh (1999)

Guatemala:
  3.785 billion kWh (1999)

Guernsey:
  NA kWh

Guinea:
  750 million kWh (1999)

Guinea-Bissau:
  55 million kWh (1999)

Guyana:
  455 million kWh (1999)

Haiti:
  672 million kWh (1999)

Honduras:
  3.319 billion kWh (1999)

Hong Kong:
  27.726 billion kWh (1999)

Hungary:
  36.75 billion kWh (1999)

Iceland:
  7.069 billion kWh (1999)

India:
  454.561 billion kWh (1999)

Indonesia:
  78.674 billion kWh (1999)

Iran:
  103.054 billion kWh (1999)

Iraq:
  29.42 billion kWh (1999)

Ireland:
  19.542 billion kWh (1999)

Israel:
  35.437 billion kWh (1999)

Italy:
  247.679 billion kWh (1999)

Jamaica:
  6.53 billion kWh (1999)

Japan:
  1.018 trillion kWh (1999)

Johnston Atoll:
  approximately 1,000,000 kWh weekly; note - there are
  six 25,000 kWh generators supplied by the base operating support
  contractor (1999)

Jordan:
  6.657 billion kWh (1999)

Kazakhstan:
  44.36 billion kWh (1999)

Kenya:
  4.225 billion kWh (1999)

Kiribati:
  7 million kWh (1999)

Korea, North:
  28.6 billion kWh (1999)

Korea, South:
  250.287 billion kWh (1999)

Kuwait:
  31.567 billion kWh (1999)

Kyrgyzstan:
  12.981 billion kWh (1999)

Laos:
  792 million kWh (1999)

Latvia:
  3.996 billion kWh (1999)

Lebanon:
  7.748 billion kWh (1999)

Lesotho:
  0 kWh; note - electricity supplied by South Africa (1999)

Liberia:
  432 million kWh (1999)

Libya:
  18.9 billion kWh (1999)

Lithuania:
  13.567 billion kWh (1999)

Luxembourg:
  648 million kWh (1999)

Macau:
  1.355 billion kWh (1999)

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  6.395 billion kWh (1999)

Madagascar:
  810 million kWh (1999)

Malawi:
  1.025 billion kWh (1999)

Malaysia:
  59.044 billion kWh (1999)

Maldives:
  101 million kWh (1999)

Mali:
  445 million kWh (1999)

Malta:
  1.65 billion kWh (1999)

Martinique:
  1.1 billion kWh (1999)

Mauritania:
  151 million kWh (1999)

Mauritius:
  1.26 billion kWh (1999)

Mayotte:
  NA kWh

Mexico:
  182.492 billion kWh (1999)

Micronesia, Federated States of:
  NA kWh

Moldova:
  4.155 billion kWh (1999)

Mongolia:
  2.671 billion kWh (1999)

Montserrat:
  10 million kWh (1999)

Morocco:
  13.695 billion kWh (1999)

Mozambique:
  2.3 billion kWh (1999)

Namibia:
  1.198 billion kWh (1999)

Nauru:
  30 million kWh (1999)

Nepal:
  1.255 billion kWh (1999)

Netherlands:
  85.294 billion kWh (1999)

Netherlands Antilles:
  1.11 billion kWh (1999)

New Caledonia:
  1.52 billion kWh (1999)

New Zealand:
  37.952 billion kWh (1999)

Nicaragua:
  2.349 billion kWh (1999)

Niger:
  200 million kWh (1999)

Nigeria:
  18.7 billion kWh (1999)

Niue:
  3 million kWh (1999)

Norfolk Island:
  NA kWh

Northern Mariana Islands:
  NA kWh

Norway:
  121.084 billion kWh (1999)

Oman:
  8.63 billion kWh (1999)

Pakistan:
  62.078 billion kWh (1999)

Panama:
  4.413 billion kWh (1999)

Papua New Guinea:
  1.82 billion kWh (1999)

Paraguay:
  51.554 billion kWh (1999)

Peru:
  18.886 billion kWh (1999)

Philippines:
  40.745 billion kWh (1999)

Pitcairn Islands:
  NA kWh; note - electric power is provided by a
  small diesel-powered generator

Poland:
  134.351 billion kWh (1999)

Portugal:
  41.696 billion kWh (1999)

Puerto Rico:
  16.76 billion kWh (1999)

Qatar:
  9 billion kWh (1999)

Reunion:
  1.1 billion kWh (1999)

Romania:
  49.036 billion kWh (1999)

Russia:
  798.065 billion kWh (1999)

Rwanda:
  132 million kWh (1999)

Saint Helena:
  6 million kWh (1999)

Saint Kitts and Nevis:
  90 million kWh (1999)

Saint Lucia:
  110 million kWh (1999)

Saint Pierre and Miquelon:
  40 million kWh (1999)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:
  82 million kWh (1999)

Samoa:
  100 million kWh (1999)

San Marino:
  NA kWh

Sao Tome and Principe:
  17 million kWh (1999)

Saudi Arabia:
  120 billion kWh (1999)

Senegal:
  1.27 billion kWh (1999)

Seychelles:
  160 million kWh (1999)

Sierra Leone:
  240 million kWh (1999)

Singapore:
  27.381 billion kWh (1999)

Slovakia:
  22.582 billion kWh (1999)

Slovenia:
  12.451 billion kWh (1999)

Solomon Islands:
  30 million kWh (1999)

Somalia:
  260 million kWh (1999)

South Africa:
  186.903 billion kWh (1999)

Spain:
  197.694 billion kWh (1999)

Sri Lanka:
  6.026 billion kWh (1999)

Sudan:
  1.76 billion kWh (1999)

Suriname:
  1.937 billion kWh (1999)

Svalbard:
  NA kWh

Swaziland:
  375 million kWh (1999)

Sweden:
  146.633 billion kWh (1999)

Switzerland:
  66.768 billion kWh (1999)

Syria:
  17.94 billion kWh (1999)

Tajikistan:
  15.623 billion kWh (1999)

Tanzania:
  2.248 billion kWh (1999)

Thailand:
  89.431 billion kWh (1999)

Togo:
  92 million kWh (1999)

Tokelau:
  NA kWh

Tonga:
  35 million kWh (1999)

Trinidad and Tobago:
  4.9 billion kWh (1999)

Tunisia:
  9.173 billion kWh (1999)

Turkey:
  125.3 billion kWh (2000 est.)

Turkmenistan:
  8.371 billion kWh (1999)

Turks and Caicos Islands:
  5 million kWh (1999)

Uganda:
  1.326 billion kWh (1999)

Ukraine:
  157.823 billion kWh (1999)

United Arab Emirates:
  36.7 billion kWh (1999)

United Kingdom:
  342.771 billion kWh (1999)

United States:
  3.678 trillion kWh (1999)

Uruguay:
  5.704 billion kWh (1999)

Uzbekistan:
  42.876 billion kWh (1999)

Vanuatu:
  35 million kWh (1999)

Venezuela:
  81.215 billion kWh (1999)

Vietnam:
  22.985 billion kWh (1999)

Virgin Islands:
  1.02 billion kWh (1999)

Wake Island:
  NA kWh

Wallis and Futuna:
  NA kWh

West Bank:
  NA kWh; note - most electricity imported from Israel;
  East Jerusalem Electric Company buys and distributes electricity to
  Palestinians in East Jerusalem and its concession in the West Bank;
  the Israel Electric Company directly supplies electricity to most
  Jewish residents and military facilities; at the same time, some
  Palestinian municipalities, such as Nablus and Janin, generate their
  own electricity from small power plants

Western Sahara:
  90 million kWh (1999)

Yemen:
  2.4 billion kWh (1999)

Yugoslavia:
  34.455 billion kWh (1999)

Zambia:
  7.642 billion kWh (1999)

Zimbabwe:
  5.78 billion kWh (1999)

Taiwan:
  139.676 billion kWh (1999)

======================================================================

@Electricity - production by source



Afghanistan:
  fossil fuel:  35.71%

  hydro:  64.29%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Albania:
  fossil fuel:  3.81%

  hydro:  96.19%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Algeria:
  fossil fuel:  99.14%

  hydro:  0.86%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

American Samoa:
  fossil fuel:  100%

  hydro:  0%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Andorra:
  fossil fuel:  NA%

  hydro:  NA%

  nuclear:  NA%

  other:  NA%

Angola:
  fossil fuel:  32.2%

  hydro:  67.8%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Anguilla:
  fossil fuel:  NA%

  hydro:  NA%

  nuclear:  NA%

  other:  NA%

Antigua and Barbuda:
  fossil fuel:  100%

  hydro:  0%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Argentina:
  fossil fuel:  60.3%

  hydro:  30.7%

  nuclear:  8.75%

  other:  0.25% (1999)

Armenia:
  fossil fuel:  45.56%

  hydro:  23.25%

  nuclear:  31.19%

  other:  0% (1999)

Aruba:
  fossil fuel:  100%

  hydro:  0%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Australia:
  fossil fuel:  89.93%

  hydro:  8.36%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  1.71% (1999)

Austria:
  fossil fuel:  29.53%

  hydro:  67.65%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  2.82% (1999)

Azerbaijan:
  fossil fuel:  86.46%

  hydro:  13.54%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Bahamas, The:
  fossil fuel:  100%

  hydro:  0%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Bahrain:
  fossil fuel:  100%

  hydro:  0%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Bangladesh:
  fossil fuel:  93.7%

  hydro:  6.3%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Barbados:
  fossil fuel:  100%

  hydro:  0%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Belarus:
  fossil fuel:  99.9%

  hydro:  0.1%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Belgium:
  fossil fuel:  40.01%

  hydro:  0.42%

  nuclear:  58.33%

  other:  1.24% (1999)

Belize:
  fossil fuel:  56.76%

  hydro:  43.24%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Benin:
  fossil fuel:  24.78%

  hydro:  75.22%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Bermuda:
  fossil fuel:  100%

  hydro:  0%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Bhutan:
  fossil fuel:  0.05%

  hydro:  99.95%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Bolivia:
  fossil fuel:  56.61%

  hydro:  41.6%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  1.79% (1999)

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  fossil fuel:  38.68%

  hydro:  61.32%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Botswana:
  fossil fuel:  100%

  hydro:  0%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Brazil:
  fossil fuel:  5.28%

  hydro:  90.66%

  nuclear:  1.12%

  other:  2.94% (1999)

British Virgin Islands:
  fossil fuel:  100%

  hydro:  0%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Brunei:
  fossil fuel:  100%

  hydro:  0%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Bulgaria:
  fossil fuel:  51.52%

  hydro:  8.35%

  nuclear:  40.12%

  other:  0.01% (1999)

Burkina Faso:
  fossil fuel:  71.93%

  hydro:  28.07%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Burma:
  fossil fuel:  68.56%

  hydro:  31.44%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Burundi:
  fossil fuel:  0.71%

  hydro:  99.29%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Cambodia:
  fossil fuel:  59.18%

  hydro:  40.82%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Cameroon:
  fossil fuel:  2.59%

  hydro:  97.41%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Canada:
  fossil fuel:  26.38%

  hydro:  60%

  nuclear:  12.31%

  other:  1.31% (1999)

Cape Verde:
  fossil fuel:  100%

  hydro:  0%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Cayman Islands:
  fossil fuel:  100%

  hydro:  0%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Central African Republic:
  fossil fuel:  20.59%

  hydro:  79.41%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Chad:
  fossil fuel:  100%

  hydro:  0%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Chile:
  fossil fuel:  61%

  hydro:  35%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  4% (1999)

China:
  fossil fuel:  79.82%

  hydro:  18.98%

  nuclear:  1.2%

  other:  0.01% (1999)

Christmas Island:
  fossil fuel:  NA%

  hydro:  NA%

  nuclear:  NA%

  other:  NA%

Cocos (Keeling) Islands:
  fossil fuel:  NA%

  hydro:  NA%

  nuclear:  NA%

  other:  NA%

Colombia:
  fossil fuel:  22.27%

  hydro:  76.19%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  1.54% (1999)

Comoros:
  fossil fuel:  88.24%

  hydro:  11.76%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  fossil fuel:  2.05%

  hydro:  97.95%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Congo, Republic of the:
  fossil fuel:  0.66%

  hydro:  99.34%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Cook Islands:
  fossil fuel:  100%

  hydro:  0%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Costa Rica:
  fossil fuel:  2.41%

  hydro:  83.32%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  14.27% (1999)

Cote d'Ivoire:
  fossil fuel:  75.37%

  hydro:  24.63%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Croatia:
  fossil fuel:  40.89%

  hydro:  59%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0.11% (1999)

Cuba:
  fossil fuel:  94.2%

  hydro:  0.7%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  5.1% (1999)

Cyprus:
  fossil fuel:  100%

  hydro:  0%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Czech Republic:
  fossil fuel:  77.8%

  hydro:  3.43%

  nuclear:  18.77%

  other:  0% (2000)

Denmark:
  fossil fuel:  88.4%

  hydro:  0.07%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  11.53% (1999)

Djibouti:
  fossil fuel:  100%

  hydro:  0%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Dominica:
  fossil fuel:  48.39%

  hydro:  51.61%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Dominican Republic:
  fossil fuel:  87.19%

  hydro:  12.4%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0.41% (1999)

Ecuador:
  fossil fuel:  29.51%

  hydro:  70.49%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Egypt:
  fossil fuel:  76.59%

  hydro:  23.41%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

El Salvador:
  fossil fuel:  45.65%

  hydro:  41.01%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  13.34% (1999)

Equatorial Guinea:
  fossil fuel:  85.71%

  hydro:  14.29%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Eritrea:
  fossil fuel:  100%

  hydro:  0%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Estonia:
  fossil fuel:  99.72%

  hydro:  0.09%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0.19% (1999)

Ethiopia:
  fossil fuel:  3.08%

  hydro:  96.92%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas):
  fossil fuel:  100%

  hydro:  0%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Faroe Islands:
  fossil fuel:  58.82%

  hydro:  41.18%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Fiji:
  fossil fuel:  17.65%

  hydro:  82.35%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Finland:
  fossil fuel:  41.88%

  hydro:  16.77%

  nuclear:  28.82%

  other:  12.53% (1999)

France:
  fossil fuel:  9.69%

  hydro:  14.39%

  nuclear:  75.43%

  other:  0.49% (1999)

French Guiana:
  fossil fuel:  100%

  hydro:  0%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

French Polynesia:
  fossil fuel:  51.16%

  hydro:  48.84%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Gabon:
  fossil fuel:  29.9%

  hydro:  70.1%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Gambia, The:
  fossil fuel:  100%

  hydro:  0%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Georgia:
  fossil fuel:  20.38%

  hydro:  79.62%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Germany:
  fossil fuel:  63.29%

  hydro:  3.59%

  nuclear:  30.3%

  other:  2.82% (1999)

Ghana:
  fossil fuel:  26.82%

  hydro:  73.18%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Gibraltar:
  fossil fuel:  100%

  hydro:  0%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Greece:
  fossil fuel:  89.6%

  hydro:  9.72%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0.68% (1999)

Greenland:
  fossil fuel:  41%

  hydro:  59%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0%

  note:  Greenland is shifting its electricity production from fossil
  fuel to hydroelectric power production (1999)

Grenada:
  fossil fuel:  100%

  hydro:  0%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Guadeloupe:
  fossil fuel:  100%

  hydro:  0%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Guam:
  fossil fuel:  100%

  hydro:  0%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Guatemala:
  fossil fuel:  38.31%

  hydro:  61.69%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Guernsey:
  fossil fuel:  NA%

  hydro:  NA%

  nuclear:  NA%

  other:  NA%

Guinea:
  fossil fuel:  46.67%

  hydro:  53.33%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Guinea-Bissau:
  fossil fuel:  100%

  hydro:  0%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Guyana:
  fossil fuel:  98.9%

  hydro:  1.1%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Haiti:
  fossil fuel:  52.83%

  hydro:  47.17%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Holy See (Vatican City):
  fossil fuel:  NA%

  hydro:  NA%

  nuclear:  NA%

  other:  NA%

Honduras:
  fossil fuel:  44.71%

  hydro:  55.29%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Hong Kong:
  fossil fuel:  100%

  hydro:  0%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Hungary:
  fossil fuel:  61.09%

  hydro:  0.51%

  nuclear:  38.4%

  other:  0% (1999)

Iceland:
  fossil fuel:  0.07%

  hydro:  84.64%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  15.29% (1999)

India:
  fossil fuel:  79.41%

  hydro:  17.77%

  nuclear:  2.52%

  other:  0.3% (1999)

Indonesia:
  fossil fuel:  80.36%

  hydro:  14.63%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  5.01% (1999)

Iran:
  fossil fuel:  93.16%

  hydro:  6.84%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Iraq:
  fossil fuel:  97.96%

  hydro:  2.04%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Ireland:
  fossil fuel:  94.42%

  hydro:  4.23%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  1.35% (1999)

Israel:
  fossil fuel:  99.89%

  hydro:  0.11%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Italy:
  fossil fuel:  79.09%

  hydro:  18.08%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  2.83% (1999)

Jamaica:
  fossil fuel:  92.28%

  hydro:  1.36%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  6.36% (1999)

Japan:
  fossil fuel:  58.91%

  hydro:  8.35%

  nuclear:  30.31%

  other:  2.43% (1999)

Jordan:
  fossil fuel:  99.79%

  hydro:  0.21%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Kazakhstan:
  fossil fuel:  87.12%

  hydro:  12.65%

  nuclear:  0.23%

  other:  0% (1999)

Kenya:
  fossil fuel:  31%

  hydro:  67%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  2% (1999 est.)

Kiribati:
  fossil fuel:  100%

  hydro:  0%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Korea, North:
  fossil fuel:  34.62%

  hydro:  65.38%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Korea, South:
  fossil fuel:  59.22%

  hydro:  1.64%

  nuclear:  39.12%

  other:  0.02% (1999)

Kuwait:
  fossil fuel:  100%

  hydro:  0%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Kyrgyzstan:
  fossil fuel:  6.67%

  hydro:  93.33%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Laos:
  fossil fuel:  2.78%

  hydro:  97.22%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Latvia:
  fossil fuel:  31.78%

  hydro:  68.22%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Lebanon:
  fossil fuel:  91.29%

  hydro:  8.71%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Lesotho:
  fossil fuel:  0%

  hydro:  0%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Liberia:
  fossil fuel:  100%

  hydro:  0%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Libya:
  fossil fuel:  100%

  hydro:  0%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Liechtenstein:
  fossil fuel:  NA%

  hydro:  NA%

  nuclear:  NA%

  other:  NA%

Lithuania:
  fossil fuel:  23.89%

  hydro:  3.43%

  nuclear:  72.68%

  other:  0% (1999)

Luxembourg:
  fossil fuel:  36.88%

  hydro:  53.09%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  10.03% (1999)

Macau:
  fossil fuel:  100%

  hydro:  0%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  fossil fuel:  82.25%

  hydro:  17.75%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Madagascar:
  fossil fuel:  37.04%

  hydro:  62.96%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Malawi:
  fossil fuel:  2.44%

  hydro:  97.56%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Malaysia:
  fossil fuel:  91.61%

  hydro:  8.39%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Maldives:
  fossil fuel:  100%

  hydro:  0%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Mali:
  fossil fuel:  44.94%

  hydro:  55.06%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Malta:
  fossil fuel:  100%

  hydro:  0%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Marshall Islands:
  fossil fuel:  NA%

  hydro:  NA%

  nuclear:  NA%

  other:  NA%

Martinique:
  fossil fuel:  100%

  hydro:  0%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Mauritania:
  fossil fuel:  82.78%

  hydro:  17.22%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Mauritius:
  fossil fuel:  91.27%

  hydro:  8.73%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Mayotte:
  fossil fuel:  NA%

  hydro:  NA%

  nuclear:  NA%

  other:  NA%

Mexico:
  fossil fuel:  74.12%

  hydro:  17.75%

  nuclear:  5.21%

  other:  2.92% (1999)

Micronesia, Federated States of:
  fossil fuel:  NA%

  hydro:  NA%

  nuclear:  NA%

  other:  NA%

Moldova:
  fossil fuel:  93.62%

  hydro:  6.38%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Mongolia:
  fossil fuel:  100%

  hydro:  0%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Montserrat:
  fossil fuel:  100%

  hydro:  0%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Morocco:
  fossil fuel:  89.19%

  hydro:  10.81%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Mozambique:
  fossil fuel:  13.04%

  hydro:  86.96%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Namibia:
  fossil fuel:  2%

  hydro:  98%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Nauru:
  fossil fuel:  100%

  hydro:  0%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Nepal:
  fossil fuel:  9.56%

  hydro:  90.44%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Netherlands:
  fossil fuel:  90.25%

  hydro:  0.11%

  nuclear:  4.27%

  other:  5.37% (1999)

Netherlands Antilles:
  fossil fuel:  100%

  hydro:  0%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

New Caledonia:
  fossil fuel:  78.95%

  hydro:  21.05%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

New Zealand:
  fossil fuel:  30.49%

  hydro:  61.42%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  8.09% (1999)

Nicaragua:
  fossil fuel:  67.26%

  hydro:  17.71%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  15.03% (1999)

Niger:
  fossil fuel:  100%

  hydro:  0%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Nigeria:
  fossil fuel:  52.94%

  hydro:  47.06%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Niue:
  fossil fuel:  100%

  hydro:  0%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Norfolk Island:
  fossil fuel:  NA%

  hydro:  NA%

  nuclear:  NA%

  other:  NA%

Norway:
  fossil fuel:  0.63%

  hydro:  99.11%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0.26% (1999)

Oman:
  fossil fuel:  100%

  hydro:  0%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Pakistan:
  fossil fuel:  63.38%

  hydro:  36.51%

  nuclear:  0.11%

  other:  0% (1999)

Panama:
  fossil fuel:  27.78%

  hydro:  71.65%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0.57% (1999)

Papua New Guinea:
  fossil fuel:  54.95%

  hydro:  45.05%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Paraguay:
  fossil fuel:  0.07%

  hydro:  99.79%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0.15% (1999)

Peru:
  fossil fuel:  23.04%

  hydro:  76.43%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0.53% (1999)

Philippines:
  fossil fuel:  61.03%

  hydro:  18.68%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  20.29% (1999)

Poland:
  fossil fuel:  96.43%

  hydro:  3.16%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0.41% (1999)

Portugal:
  fossil fuel:  79.97%

  hydro:  17.25%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  2.78% (1999)

Puerto Rico:
  fossil fuel:  98.45%

  hydro:  1.55%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Qatar:
  fossil fuel:  100%

  hydro:  0%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Reunion:
  fossil fuel:  54.55%

  hydro:  45.45%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Romania:
  fossil fuel:  53.99%

  hydro:  36.18%

  nuclear:  9.81%

  other:  0.02% (1999)

Russia:
  fossil fuel:  66.31%

  hydro:  19.79%

  nuclear:  13.9%

  other:  0% (1999)

Rwanda:
  fossil fuel:  3.03%

  hydro:  96.97%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Saint Helena:
  fossil fuel:  100%

  hydro:  0%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Saint Kitts and Nevis:
  fossil fuel:  100%

  hydro:  0%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Saint Lucia:
  fossil fuel:  100%

  hydro:  0%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Saint Pierre and Miquelon:
  fossil fuel:  100%

  hydro:  0%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:
  fossil fuel:  73.17%

  hydro:  26.83%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Samoa:
  fossil fuel:  60%

  hydro:  40%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

San Marino:
  fossil fuel:  NA%

  hydro:  NA%

  nuclear:  NA%

  other:  NA%

Sao Tome and Principe:
  fossil fuel:  41.18%

  hydro:  58.82%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Saudi Arabia:
  fossil fuel:  100%

  hydro:  0%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Senegal:
  fossil fuel:  100%

  hydro:  0%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Seychelles:
  fossil fuel:  100%

  hydro:  0%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Sierra Leone:
  fossil fuel:  100%

  hydro:  0%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Singapore:
  fossil fuel:  100%

  hydro:  0%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Slovakia:
  fossil fuel:  37.56%

  hydro:  18.27%

  nuclear:  44.17%

  other:  0% (1999)

Slovenia:
  fossil fuel:  34.44%

  hydro:  29.58%

  nuclear:  35.98%

  other:  0% (1999)

Solomon Islands:
  fossil fuel:  100%

  hydro:  0%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Somalia:
  fossil fuel:  100%

  hydro:  0%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

South Africa:
  fossil fuel:  92.74%

  hydro:  0.39%

  nuclear:  6.87%

  other:  0% (1999)

South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands:
  fossil fuel:  NA%

  hydro:  NA%

  nuclear:  NA%

  other:  NA%

Spain:
  fossil fuel:  57.71%

  hydro:  12.1%

  nuclear:  28.28%

  other:  1.91% (1999)

Sri Lanka:
  fossil fuel:  29.9%

  hydro:  70.1%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Sudan:
  fossil fuel:  42.05%

  hydro:  57.95%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Suriname:
  fossil fuel:  25.92%

  hydro:  74.08%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Svalbard:
  fossil fuel:  NA%

  hydro:  NA%

  nuclear:  NA%

  other:  NA%

Swaziland:
  fossil fuel:  53.33%

  hydro:  46.67%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Sweden:
  fossil fuel:  5.53%

  hydro:  47.24%

  nuclear:  45.42%

  other:  1.81% (1999)

Switzerland:
  fossil fuel:  3.44%

  hydro:  59.16%

  nuclear:  35.43%

  other:  1.97% (1999)

Syria:
  fossil fuel:  57.64%

  hydro:  42.36%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Tajikistan:
  fossil fuel:  1.9%

  hydro:  98.1%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Tanzania:
  fossil fuel:  22.24%

  hydro:  77.76%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Thailand:
  fossil fuel:  91.17%

  hydro:  3.81%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  5.02% (1999)

Togo:
  fossil fuel:  97.83%

  hydro:  2.17%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Tokelau:
  fossil fuel:  NA%

  hydro:  NA%

  nuclear:  NA%

  other:  NA%

Tonga:
  fossil fuel:  100%

  hydro:  0%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Trinidad and Tobago:
  fossil fuel:  99.59%

  hydro:  0%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0.41% (1999)

Tunisia:
  fossil fuel:  99.2%

  hydro:  0.8%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Turkey:
  fossil fuel:  71%

  hydro:  29%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (2000 est.)

Turkmenistan:
  fossil fuel:  99.94%

  hydro:  0.06%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Turks and Caicos Islands:
  fossil fuel:  100%

  hydro:  0%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Tuvalu:
  fossil fuel:  NA%

  hydro:  NA%

  nuclear:  NA%

  other:  NA%

Uganda:
  fossil fuel:  0.98%

  hydro:  99.02%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Ukraine:
  fossil fuel:  47.67%

  hydro:  9.65%

  nuclear:  42.67%

  other:  0.01% (1999)

United Arab Emirates:
  fossil fuel:  100%

  hydro:  0%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

United Kingdom:
  fossil fuel:  69.38%

  hydro:  1.55%

  nuclear:  26.68%

  other:  2.39% (1999)

United States:
  fossil fuel:  69.64%

  hydro:  8.31%

  nuclear:  19.8%

  other:  2.25% (1999)

Uruguay:
  fossil fuel:  3.86%

  hydro:  95.44%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0.7% (1999)

Uzbekistan:
  fossil fuel:  86.4%

  hydro:  13.6%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Vanuatu:
  fossil fuel:  100%

  hydro:  0%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Venezuela:
  fossil fuel:  32.16%

  hydro:  67.84%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Vietnam:
  fossil fuel:  47.71%

  hydro:  52.29%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Virgin Islands:
  fossil fuel:  100%

  hydro:  0%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Wallis and Futuna:
  fossil fuel:  NA%

  hydro:  NA%

  nuclear:  NA%

  other:  NA%

West Bank:
  fossil fuel:  NA%

  hydro:  NA%

  nuclear:  NA%

  other:  NA%

Western Sahara:
  fossil fuel:  100%

  hydro:  0%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

World:
  fossil fuel:  NA%

  hydro:  NA%

  nuclear:  NA%

  other:  NA%

Yemen:
  fossil fuel:  100%

  hydro:  0%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Yugoslavia:
  fossil fuel:  70%

  hydro:  30%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Zambia:
  fossil fuel:  0.55%

  hydro:  99.45%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Zimbabwe:
  fossil fuel:  69.98%

  hydro:  30.02%

  nuclear:  0%

  other:  0% (1999)

Taiwan:
  fossil fuel:  67.26%

  hydro:  6.32%

  nuclear:  26.42%

  other:  0% (1999)

======================================================================

@Elevation extremes



Afghanistan:
  lowest point:  Amu Darya 258 m

  highest point:  Nowshak 7,485 m

Albania:
  lowest point:  Adriatic Sea 0 m

  highest point:  Maja e Korabit (Golem Korab) 2,753 m

Algeria:
  lowest point:  Chott Melrhir -40 m

  highest point:  Tahat 3,003 m

American Samoa:
  lowest point:  Pacific Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  Lata 966 m

Andorra:
  lowest point:  Riu Runer 840 m

  highest point:  Coma Pedrosa 2,946 m

Angola:
  lowest point:  Atlantic Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  Morro de Moco 2,620 m

Anguilla:
  lowest point:  Caribbean Sea 0 m

  highest point:  Crocus Hill 65 m

Antarctica:
  lowest point:  Bentley Subglacial Trench -2,540 m

  highest point:  Vinson Massif 5,140 m

  note:  the lowest known land point in Antarctica is hidden in the
  Bentley Subglacial Trench; at its surface is the deepest ice yet
  discovered and the world's lowest elevation not under sea water

Antigua and Barbuda:
  lowest point:  Caribbean Sea 0 m

  highest point:  Boggy Peak 402 m

Arctic Ocean:
  lowest point:  Fram Basin -4,665 m

  highest point:  sea level 0 m

Argentina:
  lowest point:  Salinas Chicas -40 m (located on Peninsula
  Valdes)

  highest point:  Cerro Aconcagua 6,960 m

Armenia:
  lowest point:  Debed River 400 m

  highest point:  Aragats Lerr 4,095 m

Aruba:
  lowest point:  Caribbean Sea 0 m

  highest point:  Mount Jamanota 188 m

Ashmore and Cartier Islands:
  lowest point:  Indian Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  unnamed location 3 m

Atlantic Ocean:
  lowest point:  Milwaukee Deep in the Puerto Rico
  Trench -8,605 m

  highest point:  sea level 0 m

Australia:
  lowest point:  Lake Eyre -15 m

  highest point:  Mount Kosciuszko 2,229 m

Austria:
  lowest point:  Neusiedler See 115 m

  highest point:  Grossglockner 3,798 m

Azerbaijan:
  lowest point:  Caspian Sea -28 m

  highest point:  Bazarduzu Dagi 4,485 m

Bahamas, The:
  lowest point:  Atlantic Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  Mount Alvernia, on Cat Island 63 m

Bahrain:
  lowest point:  Persian Gulf 0 m

  highest point:  Jabal ad Dukhan 122 m

Baker Island:
  lowest point:  Pacific Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  unnamed location 8 m

Bangladesh:
  lowest point:  Indian Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  Keokradong 1,230 m

Barbados:
  lowest point:  Atlantic Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  Mount Hillaby 336 m

Bassas da India:
  lowest point:  Indian Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  unnamed location 2.4 m

Belarus:
  lowest point:  Nyoman River 90 m

  highest point:  Dzyarzhynskaya Hara 346 m

Belgium:
  lowest point:  North Sea 0 m

  highest point:  Signal de Botrange 694 m

Belize:
  lowest point:  Caribbean Sea 0 m

  highest point:  Victoria Peak 1,160 m

Benin:
  lowest point:  Atlantic Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  Mont Sokbaro 658 m

Bermuda:
  lowest point:  Atlantic Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  Town Hill 76 m

Bhutan:
  lowest point:  Drangme Chhu 97 m

  highest point:  Kula Kangri 7,553 m

Bolivia:
  lowest point:  Rio Paraguay 90 m

  highest point:  Nevado Sajama 6,542 m

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  lowest point:  Adriatic Sea 0 m

  highest point:  Maglic 2,386 m

Botswana:
  lowest point:  junction of the Limpopo and Shashe Rivers
  513 m

  highest point:  Tsodilo Hills 1,489 m

Bouvet Island:
  lowest point:  South Atlantic Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  Olav Peak 935 m

Brazil:
  lowest point:  Atlantic Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  Pico da Neblina 3,014 m

British Indian Ocean Territory:
  lowest point:  Indian Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  unnamed location on Diego Garcia 15 m

British Virgin Islands:
  lowest point:  Caribbean Sea 0 m

  highest point:  Mount Sage 521 m

Brunei:
  lowest point:  South China Sea 0 m

  highest point:  Bukit Pagon 1,850 m

Bulgaria:
  lowest point:  Black Sea 0 m

  highest point:  Musala 2,925 m

Burkina Faso:
  lowest point:  Mouhoun (Black Volta) River 200 m

  highest point:  Tena Kourou 749 m

Burma:
  lowest point:  Andaman Sea 0 m

  highest point:  Hkakabo Razi 5,881 m

Burundi:
  lowest point:  Lake Tanganyika 772 m

  highest point:  Mount Heha 2,670 m

Cambodia:
  lowest point:  Gulf of Thailand 0 m

  highest point:  Phnum Aoral 1,810 m

Cameroon:
  lowest point:  Atlantic Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  Fako 4,095 m

Canada:
  lowest point:  Atlantic Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  Mount Logan 5,959 m

Cape Verde:
  lowest point:  Atlantic Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  Mt. Fogo 2,829 m (a volcano on Fogo Island)

Cayman Islands:
  lowest point:  Caribbean Sea 0 m

  highest point:  The Bluff 43 m

Central African Republic:
  lowest point:  Oubangui River 335 m

  highest point:  Mont Ngaoui 1,420 m

Chad:
  lowest point:  Djourab Depression 160 m

  highest point:  Emi Koussi 3,415 m

Chile:
  lowest point:  Pacific Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  Nevado Ojos del Salado 6,880 m

China:
  lowest point:  Turpan Pendi -154 m

  highest point:  Mount Everest 8,850 m (1999 est.)

Christmas Island:
  lowest point:  Indian Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  Murray Hill 361 m

Clipperton Island:
  lowest point:  Pacific Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  Rocher Clipperton 29 m

Cocos (Keeling) Islands:
  lowest point:  Indian Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  unnamed location 5 m

Colombia:
  lowest point:  Pacific Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  Pico Cristobal Colon 5,775 m

  note:  nearby Pico Simon Bolivar also has the same elevation

Comoros:
  lowest point:  Indian Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  Le Kartala 2,360 m

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  lowest point:  Atlantic Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  Pic Marguerite on Mont Ngaliema (Mount Stanley)
  5,110 m

Congo, Republic of the:
  lowest point:  Atlantic Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  Mount Berongou 903 m

Cook Islands:
  lowest point:  Pacific Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  Te Manga 652 m

Coral Sea Islands:
  lowest point:  Pacific Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  unnamed location on Cato Island 6 m

Costa Rica:
  lowest point:  Pacific Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  Cerro Chirripo 3,810 m

Cote d'Ivoire:
  lowest point:  Gulf of Guinea 0 m

  highest point:  Mont Nimba 1,752 m

Croatia:
  lowest point:  Adriatic Sea 0 m

  highest point:  Dinara 1,830 m

Cuba:
  lowest point:  Caribbean Sea 0 m

  highest point:  Pico Turquino 2,005 m

Cyprus:
  lowest point:  Mediterranean Sea 0 m

  highest point:  Olympus 1,951 m

Czech Republic:
  lowest point:  Elbe River 115 m

  highest point:  Snezka 1,602 m

Denmark:
  lowest point:  Lammefjord -7 m

  highest point:  Yding Skovhoej 173 m

Djibouti:
  lowest point:  Lac Assal -155 m

  highest point:  Moussa Ali 2,028 m

Dominica:
  lowest point:  Caribbean Sea 0 m

  highest point:  Morne Diablatins 1,447 m

Dominican Republic:
  lowest point:  Lago Enriquillo -46 m

  highest point:  Pico Duarte 3,175 m

Ecuador:
  lowest point:  Pacific Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  Chimborazo 6,267 m

Egypt:
  lowest point:  Qattara Depression -133 m

  highest point:  Mount Catherine 2,629 m

El Salvador:
  lowest point:  Pacific Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  Cerro El Pital 2,730 m

Equatorial Guinea:
  lowest point:  Atlantic Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  Pico Basile 3,008 m

Eritrea:
  lowest point:  near Kulul within the Denakil depression -75
  m

  highest point:  Soira 3,018 m

Estonia:
  lowest point:  Baltic Sea 0 m

  highest point:  Suur Munamagi 318 m

Ethiopia:
  lowest point:  Denakil Depression -125 m

  highest point:  Ras Dejen 4,620 m

Europa Island:
  lowest point:  Indian Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  unnamed location 24 m

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas):
  lowest point:  Atlantic Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  Mount Usborne 705 m

Faroe Islands:
  lowest point:  Atlantic Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  Slaettaratindur 882 m

Fiji:
  lowest point:  Pacific Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  Tomanivi 1,324 m

Finland:
  lowest point:  Baltic Sea 0 m

  highest point:  Haltiatunturi 1,328 m

France:
  lowest point:  Rhone River delta -2 m

  highest point:  Mont Blanc 4,807 m

French Guiana:
  lowest point:  Atlantic Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  Bellevue de l'Inini 851 m

French Polynesia:
  lowest point:  Pacific Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  Mont Orohena 2,241 m

French Southern and Antarctic Lands:
  lowest point:  Indian Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  Mont Ross on Iles Kerguelen 1,850 m

Gabon:
  lowest point:  Atlantic Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  Mont Iboundji 1,575 m

Gambia, The:
  lowest point:  Atlantic Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  unnamed location 53 m

Gaza Strip:
  lowest point:  Mediterranean Sea 0 m

  highest point:  Abu 'Awdah (Joz Abu 'Auda) 105 m

Georgia:
  lowest point:  Black Sea 0 m

  highest point:  Mt'a Mqinvartsveri (Gora Kazbek) 5,048 m

Germany:
  lowest point:  Freepsum Lake -2 m

  highest point:  Zugspitze 2,963 m

Ghana:
  lowest point:  Atlantic Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  Mount Afadjato 880 m

Gibraltar:
  lowest point:  Mediterranean Sea 0 m

  highest point:  Rock of Gibraltar 426 m

Glorioso Islands:
  lowest point:  Indian Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  unnamed location 12 m

Greece:
  lowest point:  Mediterranean Sea 0 m

  highest point:  Mount Olympus 2,917 m

Greenland:
  lowest point:  Atlantic Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  Gunnbjorn 3,700 m

Grenada:
  lowest point:  Caribbean Sea 0 m

  highest point:  Mount Saint Catherine 840 m

Guadeloupe:
  lowest point:  Caribbean Sea 0 m

  highest point:  Soufriere 1,467 m

Guam:
  lowest point:  Pacific Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  Mount Lamlam 406 m

Guatemala:
  lowest point:  Pacific Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  Volcan Tajumulco 4,211 m

Guernsey:
  lowest point:  Atlantic Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  unnamed location on Sark 114 m

Guinea:
  lowest point:  Atlantic Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  Mont Nimba 1,752 m

Guinea-Bissau:
  lowest point:  Atlantic Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  unnamed location in the northeast corner of the
  country 300 m

Guyana:
  lowest point:  Atlantic Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  Mount Roraima 2,835 m

Haiti:
  lowest point:  Caribbean Sea 0 m

  highest point:  Chaine de la Selle 2,680 m

Heard Island and McDonald Islands:
  lowest point:  Southern Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  Big Ben 2,745 m

Holy See (Vatican City):
  lowest point:  unnamed location 19 m

  highest point:  unnamed location 75 m

Honduras:
  lowest point:  Caribbean Sea 0 m

  highest point:  Cerro Las Minas 2,870 m

Hong Kong:
  lowest point:  South China Sea 0 m

  highest point:  Tai Mo Shan 958 m

Howland Island:
  lowest point:  Pacific Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  unnamed location 3 m

Hungary:
  lowest point:  Tisza River 78 m

  highest point:  Kekes 1,014 m

Iceland:
  lowest point:  Atlantic Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  Hvannadalshnukur 2,119 m

India:
  lowest point:  Indian Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  Kanchenjunga 8,598 m

Indian Ocean:
  lowest point:  Java Trench -7,258 m

  highest point:  sea level 0 m

Indonesia:
  lowest point:  Indian Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  Puncak Jaya 5,030 m

Iran:
  lowest point:  Caspian Sea -28 m

  highest point:  Qolleh-ye Damavand 5,671 m

Iraq:
  lowest point:  Persian Gulf 0 m

  highest point:  Haji Ibrahim 3,600 m

Ireland:
  lowest point:  Atlantic Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  Carrauntoohil 1,041 m

Israel:
  lowest point:  Dead Sea -408 m

  highest point:  Har Meron 1,208 m

Italy:
  lowest point:  Mediterranean Sea 0 m

  highest point:  Mont Blanc (Monte Bianco) 4,807 m

Jamaica:
  lowest point:  Caribbean Sea 0 m

  highest point:  Blue Mountain Peak 2,256 m

Jan Mayen:
  lowest point:  Norwegian Sea 0 m

  highest point:  Haakon VII Toppen/Beerenberg 2,277 m

Japan:
  lowest point:  Hachiro-gata -4 m

  highest point:  Fujiyama 3,776 m

Jarvis Island:
  lowest point:  Pacific Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  unnamed location 7 m

Jersey:
  lowest point:  Atlantic Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  unnamed location 143 m

Johnston Atoll:
  lowest point:  Pacific Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  Summit Peak 5 m

Jordan:
  lowest point:  Dead Sea -408 m

  highest point:  Jabal Ram 1,734 m

Juan de Nova Island:
  lowest point:  Indian Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  unnamed location 10 m

Kazakhstan:
  lowest point:  Vpadina Kaundy -132 m

  highest point:  Khan Tangiri Shyngy (Pik Khan-Tengri) 6,995 m

Kenya:
  lowest point:  Indian Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  Mount Kenya 5,199 m

Kingman Reef:
  lowest point:  Pacific Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  unnamed location 1 m

Kiribati:
  lowest point:  Pacific Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  unnamed location on Banaba 81 m

Korea, North:
  lowest point:  Sea of Japan 0 m

  highest point:  Paektu-san 2,744 m

Korea, South:
  lowest point:  Sea of Japan 0 m

  highest point:  Halla-san 1,950 m

Kuwait:
  lowest point:  Persian Gulf 0 m

  highest point:  unnamed location 306 m

Kyrgyzstan:
  lowest point:  Kara-Darya 132 m

  highest point:  Jengish Chokusu (Pik Pobedy) 7,439 m

Laos:
  lowest point:  Mekong River 70 m

  highest point:  Phou Bia 2,817 m

Latvia:
  lowest point:  Baltic Sea 0 m

  highest point:  Gaizinkalns 312 m

Lebanon:
  lowest point:  Mediterranean Sea 0 m

  highest point:  Qurnat as Sawda' 3,088 m

Lesotho:
  lowest point:  junction of the Orange and Makhaleng Rivers
  1,400 m

  highest point:  Thabana Ntlenyana 3,482 m

Liberia:
  lowest point:  Atlantic Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  Mount Wuteve 1,380 m

Libya:
  lowest point:  Sabkhat Ghuzayyil -47 m

  highest point:  Bikku Bitti 2,267 m

Liechtenstein:
  lowest point:  Ruggeller Riet 430 m

  highest point:  Grauspitz 2,599 m

Lithuania:
  lowest point:  Baltic Sea 0 m

  highest point:  Juozapines/Kalnas 292 m

Luxembourg:
  lowest point:  Moselle River 133 m

  highest point:  Buurgplaatz 559 m

Macau:
  lowest point:  South China Sea 0 m

  highest point:  Coloane Alto 174 m

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  lowest point:  Vardar
  River 50 m

  highest point:  Golem Korab (Maja e Korabit) 2,753 m

Madagascar:
  lowest point:  Indian Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  Maromokotro 2,876 m

Malawi:
  lowest point:  junction of the Shire River and international
  boundary with Mozambique 37 m

  highest point:  Sapitwa 3,002 m

Malaysia:
  lowest point:  Indian Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  Gunung Kinabalu 4,100 m

Maldives:
  lowest point:  Indian Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  unnamed location on Wilingili island in the Addu
  Atoll 2.4 m

Mali:
  lowest point:  Senegal River 23 m

  highest point:  Hombori Tondo 1,155 m

Malta:
  lowest point:  Mediterranean Sea 0 m

  highest point:  Ta'Dmejrek 253 m (near Dingli)

Man, Isle of:
  lowest point:  Irish Sea 0 m

  highest point:  Snaefell 621 m

Marshall Islands:
  lowest point:  Pacific Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  unnamed location on Likiep 10 m

Martinique:
  lowest point:  Caribbean Sea 0 m

  highest point:  Montagne Pelee 1,397 m

Mauritania:
  lowest point:  Sebkha de Ndrhamcha -3 m

  highest point:  Kediet Ijill 910 m

Mauritius:
  lowest point:  Indian Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  Mont Piton 828 m

Mayotte:
  lowest point:  Indian Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  Benara 660 m

Mexico:
  lowest point:  Laguna Salada -10 m

  highest point:  Volcan Pico de Orizaba 5,700 m

Micronesia, Federated States of:
  lowest point:  Pacific Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  Totolom 791 m

Midway Islands:
  lowest point:  Pacific Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  unnamed location 13 m

Moldova:
  lowest point:  Nistru (Dnister) River 2 m

  highest point:  Dealul Balanesti 430 m

Monaco:
  lowest point:  Mediterranean Sea 0 m

  highest point:  Mont Agel 140 m

Mongolia:
  lowest point:  Hoh Nuur 518 m

  highest point:  Nayramadlin Orgil (Huyten Orgil) 4,374 m

Montserrat:
  lowest point:  Caribbean Sea 0 m

  highest point:  Chances Peak (in the Soufriere Hills) 914 m

Morocco:
  lowest point:  Sebkha Tah -55 m

  highest point:  Jbel Toubkal 4,165 m

Mozambique:
  lowest point:  Indian Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  Monte Binga 2,436 m

Namibia:
  lowest point:  Atlantic Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  Konigstein 2,606 m

Nauru:
  lowest point:  Pacific Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  unnamed location along plateau rim 61 m

Navassa Island:
  lowest point:  Caribbean Sea 0 m

  highest point:  unnamed location on southwest side 77 m

Nepal:
  lowest point:  Kanchan Kalan 70 m

  highest point:  Mount Everest 8,850 m (1999 est.)

Netherlands:
  lowest point:  Prins Alexanderpolder -7 m

  highest point:  Vaalserberg 321 m

Netherlands Antilles:
  lowest point:  Caribbean Sea 0 m

  highest point:  Mount Scenery 862 m

New Caledonia:
  lowest point:  Pacific Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  Mont Panie 1,628 m

New Zealand:
  lowest point:  Pacific Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  Mount Cook 3,764 m

Nicaragua:
  lowest point:  Pacific Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  Mogoton 2,438 m

Niger:
  lowest point:  Niger River 200 m

  highest point:  Mont Greboun 1,944 m

Nigeria:
  lowest point:  Atlantic Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  Chappal Waddi 2,419 m

Niue:
  lowest point:  Pacific Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  unnamed location near Mutalau settlement 68 m

Norfolk Island:
  lowest point:  Pacific Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  Mount Bates 319 m

Northern Mariana Islands:
  lowest point:  Pacific Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  unnamed location on Agrihan 965 m

Norway:
  lowest point:  Norwegian Sea 0 m

  highest point:  Galdhopiggen 2,469 m

Oman:
  lowest point:  Arabian Sea 0 m

  highest point:  Jabal Shams 2,980 m

Pacific Ocean:
  lowest point:  Challenger Deep in the Mariana Trench
  -10,924 m

  highest point:  sea level 0 m

Pakistan:
  lowest point:  Indian Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  K2 (Mt. Godwin-Austen) 8,611 m

Palau:
  lowest point:  Pacific Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  Mount Ngerchelchauus 242 m

Palmyra Atoll:
  lowest point:  Pacific Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  unnamed location 2 m

Panama:
  lowest point:  Pacific Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  Volcan de Chiriqui 3,475 m

Papua New Guinea:
  lowest point:  Pacific Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  Mount Wilhelm 4,509 m

Paracel Islands:
  lowest point:  South China Sea 0 m

  highest point:  unnamed location on Rocky Island 14 m

Paraguay:
  lowest point:  junction of Rio Paraguay and Rio Parana 46 m

  highest point:  Cerro Pero (Cerro Tres Kandu) 842 m

Peru:
  lowest point:  Pacific Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  Nevado Huascaran 6,768 m

Philippines:
  lowest point:  Philippine Sea 0 m

  highest point:  Mount Apo 2,954 m

Pitcairn Islands:
  lowest point:  Pacific Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  Pawala Valley Ridge 347 m

Poland:
  lowest point:  Raczki Elblaskie -2 m

  highest point:  Rysy 2,499 m

Portugal:
  lowest point:  Atlantic Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  Ponta do Pico (Pico or Pico Alto) on Ilha do Pico in
  the Azores 2,351 m

Puerto Rico:
  lowest point:  Caribbean Sea 0 m

  highest point:  Cerro de Punta 1,338 m

Qatar:
  lowest point:  Persian Gulf 0 m

  highest point:  Qurayn Abu al Bawl 103 m

Reunion:
  lowest point:  Indian Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  Piton des Neiges 3,069 m

Romania:
  lowest point:  Black Sea 0 m

  highest point:  Moldoveanu 2,544 m

Russia:
  lowest point:  Caspian Sea -28 m

  highest point:  Gora El'brus 5,633 m

Rwanda:
  lowest point:  Rusizi River 950 m

  highest point:  Volcan Karisimbi 4,519 m

Saint Helena:
  lowest point:  Atlantic Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  Queen Mary's Peak on Tristan da Cunha 2,060 m

Saint Kitts and Nevis:
  lowest point:  Caribbean Sea 0 m

  highest point:  Mount Liamuiga 1,156 m

Saint Lucia:
  lowest point:  Caribbean Sea 0 m

  highest point:  Mount Gimie 950 m

Saint Pierre and Miquelon:
  lowest point:  Atlantic Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  Morne de la Grande Montagne 240 m

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:
  lowest point:  Caribbean Sea 0 m

  highest point:  Soufriere 1,234 m

Samoa:
  lowest point:  Pacific Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  Mauga Silisili 1,857 m

San Marino:
  lowest point:  Torrente Ausa 55 m

  highest point:  Monte Titano 755 m

Sao Tome and Principe:
  lowest point:  Atlantic Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  Pico de Sao Tome 2,024 m

Saudi Arabia:
  lowest point:  Persian Gulf 0 m

  highest point:  Jabal Sawda' 3,133 m

Senegal:
  lowest point:  Atlantic Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  unnamed feature near Nepen Diakha 581 m

Seychelles:
  lowest point:  Indian Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  Morne Seychellois 905 m

Sierra Leone:
  lowest point:  Atlantic Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  Loma Mansa (Bintimani) 1,948 m

Singapore:
  lowest point:  Singapore Strait 0 m

  highest point:  Bukit Timah 166 m

Slovakia:
  lowest point:  Bodrok River 94 m

  highest point:  Gerlachovsky Stit 2,655 m

Slovenia:
  lowest point:  Adriatic Sea 0 m

  highest point:  Triglav 2,864 m

Solomon Islands:
  lowest point:  Pacific Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  Mount Makarakomburu 2,447 m

Somalia:
  lowest point:  Indian Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  Shimbiris 2,416 m

South Africa:
  lowest point:  Atlantic Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  Njesuthi 3,408 m

South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands:
  lowest point:
  Atlantic Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  Mount Paget (South Georgia) 2,934 m

Southern Ocean:
  lowest point:  -7,235 m at the southern end of the
  South Sandwich Trench

  highest point:  sea level 0 m

Spain:
  lowest point:  Atlantic Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  Pico de Teide (Tenerife) on Canary Islands 3,718 m

Spratly Islands:
  lowest point:  South China Sea 0 m

  highest point:  unnamed location on Southwest Cay 4 m

Sri Lanka:
  lowest point:  Indian Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  Pidurutalagala 2,524 m

Sudan:
  lowest point:  Red Sea 0 m

  highest point:  Kinyeti 3,187 m

Suriname:
  lowest point:  unnamed location in the coastal plain -2 m

  highest point:  Juliana Top 1,230 m

Svalbard:
  lowest point:  Arctic Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  Newtontoppen 1,717 m

Swaziland:
  lowest point:  Great Usutu River 21 m

  highest point:  Emlembe 1,862 m

Sweden:
  lowest point:  Baltic Sea 0 m

  highest point:  Kebnekaise 2,111 m

Switzerland:
  lowest point:  Lake Maggiore 195 m

  highest point:  Dufourspitze 4,634 m

Syria:
  lowest point:  unnamed location near Lake Tiberias -200 m

  highest point:  Mount Hermon 2,814 m

Tajikistan:
  lowest point:  Syrdariya 300 m

  highest point:  Pik Imeni Ismail Samani 7,495 m

Tanzania:
  lowest point:  Indian Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  Kilimanjaro 5,895 m

Thailand:
  lowest point:  Gulf of Thailand 0 m

  highest point:  Doi Inthanon 2,576 m

Togo:
  lowest point:  Atlantic Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  Mont Agou 986 m

Tokelau:
  lowest point:  Pacific Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  unnamed location 5 m

Tonga:
  lowest point:  Pacific Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  unnamed location on Kao Island 1,033 m

Trinidad and Tobago:
  lowest point:  Caribbean Sea 0 m

  highest point:  El Cerro del Aripo 940 m

Tromelin Island:
  lowest point:  Indian Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  unnamed location 7 m

Tunisia:
  lowest point:  Shatt al Gharsah -17 m

  highest point:  Jebel ech Chambi 1,544 m

Turkey:
  lowest point:  Mediterranean Sea 0 m

  highest point:  Mount Ararat 5,166 m

Turkmenistan:
  lowest point:  Vpadina Akchanaya -81.00 m; note -
  Sarygamysh Koli is a lake in northern Turkmenistan with a water
  level that fluctuates above and below the elevation of Vpadina
  Akchanaya (the lake has dropped as low as -110 m)

  highest point:  Gora Ayribaba 3,139 m

Turks and Caicos Islands:
  lowest point:  Caribbean Sea 0 m

  highest point:  Blue Hills 49 m

Tuvalu:
  lowest point:  Pacific Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  unnamed location 5 m

Uganda:
  lowest point:  Lake Albert 621 m

  highest point:  Margherita Peak on Mount Stanley 5,110 m

Ukraine:
  lowest point:  Black Sea 0 m

  highest point:  Hora Hoverla 2,061 m

United Arab Emirates:
  lowest point:  Persian Gulf 0 m

  highest point:  Jabal Yibir 1,527 m

United Kingdom:
  lowest point:  Fenland -4 m

  highest point:  Ben Nevis 1,343 m

United States:
  lowest point:  Death Valley -86 m

  highest point:  Mount McKinley 6,194 m

Uruguay:
  lowest point:  Atlantic Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  Cerro Catedral 514 m

Uzbekistan:
  lowest point:  Sariqarnish Kuli -12 m

  highest point:  Adelunga Toghi 4,301 m

Vanuatu:
  lowest point:  Pacific Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  Tabwemasana 1,877 m

Venezuela:
  lowest point:  Caribbean Sea 0 m

  highest point:  Pico Bolivar (La Columna) 5,007 m

Vietnam:
  lowest point:  South China Sea 0 m

  highest point:  Ngoc Linh 3,143 m

Virgin Islands:
  lowest point:  Caribbean Sea 0 m

  highest point:  Crown Mountain 474 m

Wake Island:
  lowest point:  Pacific Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  unnamed location 6 m

Wallis and Futuna:
  lowest point:  Pacific Ocean 0 m

  highest point:  Mont Singavi 765 m

West Bank:
  lowest point:  Dead Sea -408 m

  highest point:  Tall Asur 1,022 m

Western Sahara:
  lowest point:  Sebjet Tah -55 m

  highest point:  unnamed location 463 m

World:
  lowest point:  Bentley Subglacial Trench -2,540 m

  highest point:  Mount Everest 8,850 m (1999 est.)

Yemen:
  lowest point:  Arabian Sea 0 m

  highest point:  Jabal an Nabi Shu'ayb 3,760 m

Yugoslavia:
  lowest point:  Adriatic Sea 0 m

  highest point:  Daravica 2,656 m

Zambia:
  lowest point:  Zambezi river 329 m

  highest point:  unnamed location in Mafinga Hills 2,301 m

Zimbabwe:
  lowest point:  junction of the Runde and Save rivers 162 m

  highest point:  Inyangani 2,592 m

Taiwan:
  lowest point:  South China Sea 0 m

  highest point:  Yu Shan 3,997 m

======================================================================

@Environment - current issues



Afghanistan:
  soil degradation; overgrazing; deforestation (much of
  the remaining forests are being cut down for fuel and building
  materials); desertification

Albania:
  deforestation; soil erosion; water pollution from
  industrial and domestic effluents

Algeria:
  soil erosion from overgrazing and other poor farming
  practices; desertification; dumping of raw sewage, petroleum
  refining wastes, and other industrial effluents is leading to the
  pollution of rivers and coastal waters; Mediterranean Sea, in
  particular, becoming polluted from oil wastes, soil erosion, and
  fertilizer runoff; inadequate supplies of potable water

American Samoa:
  limited natural fresh water resources; the water
  division of the government has spent substantial funds in the past
  few years to improve water catchments and pipelines

Andorra:
  deforestation; overgrazing of mountain meadows contributes
  to soil erosion; air pollution; wastewater treatment and solid waste
  disposal

Angola:
  overuse of pastures and subsequent soil erosion attributable
  to population pressures; desertification; deforestation of tropical
  rain forest, in response to both international demand for tropical
  timber and to domestic use as fuel, resulting in loss of
  biodiversity; soil erosion contributing to water pollution and
  siltation of rivers and dams; inadequate supplies of potable water

Anguilla:
  supplies of potable water sometimes cannot meet increasing
  demand largely because of poor distribution system

Antarctica:
  in 1998, NASA satellite data showed that the antarctic
  ozone hole was the largest on record, covering 27 million square
  kilometers; researchers in 1997 found that increased ultraviolet
  light coming through the hole damages the DNA of icefish, an
  antarctic fish lacking hemoglobin; ozone depletion earlier was shown
  to harm one-celled antarctic marine plants

Antigua and Barbuda:
  water management - a major concern because of
  limited natural fresh water resources - is further hampered by the
  clearing of trees to increase crop production, causing rainfall to
  run off quickly

Arctic Ocean:
  endangered marine species include walruses and whales;
  fragile ecosystem slow to change and slow to recover from
  disruptions or damage; thinning polar icepack

Argentina:
  environmental problems (urban and rural) typical of an
  industrializing economy such as soil degradation, desertification,
  air pollution, and water pollution

  note:  Argentina is a world leader in setting voluntary greenhouse
  gas targets

Armenia:
  soil pollution from toxic chemicals such as DDT; energy
  blockade, the result of conflict with Azerbaijan, has led to
  deforestation when citizens scavenged for firewood; pollution of
  Hrazdan (Razdan) and Aras Rivers; the draining of Sevana Lich (Lake
  Sevan), a result of its use as a source for hydropower, threatens
  drinking water supplies; restart of Metsamor nuclear power plant
  without adequate (IAEA-recommended) safety and backup systems

Aruba:
  NA

Ashmore and Cartier Islands:
  NA

Atlantic Ocean:
  endangered marine species include the manatee,
  seals, sea lions, turtles, and whales; drift net fishing is
  hastening the decline of fish stocks and contributing to
  international disputes; municipal sludge pollution off eastern US,
  southern Brazil, and eastern Argentina; oil pollution in Caribbean
  Sea, Gulf of Mexico, Lake Maracaibo, Mediterranean Sea, and North
  Sea; industrial waste and municipal sewage pollution in Baltic Sea,
  North Sea, and Mediterranean Sea

Australia:
  soil erosion from overgrazing, industrial development,
  urbanization, and poor farming practices; soil salinity rising due
  to the use of poor quality water; desertification; clearing for
  agricultural purposes threatens the natural habitat of many unique
  animal and plant species; the Great Barrier Reef off the northeast
  coast, the largest coral reef in the world, is threatened by
  increased shipping and its popularity as a tourist site; limited
  natural fresh water resources

Austria:
  some forest degradation caused by air and soil pollution;
  soil pollution results from the use of agricultural chemicals; air
  pollution results from emissions by coal- and oil-fired power
  stations and industrial plants and from trucks transiting Austria
  between northern and southern Europe

Azerbaijan:
  local scientists consider the Abseron Yasaqligi
  (Apsheron Peninsula) (including Baku and Sumqayit) and the Caspian
  Sea to be the ecologically most devastated area in the world because
  of severe air, water, and soil pollution; soil pollution results
  from the use of DDT as a pesticide and also from toxic defoliants
  used in the production of cotton

Bahamas, The:
  coral reef decay; solid waste disposal

Bahrain:
  desertification resulting from the degradation of limited
  arable land, periods of drought, and dust storms; coastal
  degradation (damage to coastlines, coral reefs, and sea vegetation)
  resulting from oil spills and other discharges from large tankers,
  oil refineries, and distribution stations; no natural fresh water
  resources so that groundwater and sea water are the only sources for
  all water needs

Baker Island:
  no natural fresh water resources

Bangladesh:
  many people are landless and forced to live on and
  cultivate flood-prone land; water-borne diseases prevalent in
  surface water; water pollution, especially of fishing areas, results
  from the use of commercial pesticides; ground water contaminated by
  naturally-occurring arsenic; intermittent water shortages because of
  falling water tables in the northern and central parts of the
  country; soil degradation and erosion; deforestation; severe
  overpopulation

Barbados:
  pollution of coastal waters from waste disposal by ships;
  soil erosion; illegal solid waste disposal threatens contamination
  of aquifers

Bassas da India:
  NA

Belarus:
  soil pollution from pesticide use; southern part of the
  country contaminated with fallout from 1986 nuclear reactor accident
  at Chornobyl' in northern Ukraine

Belgium:
  the environment is exposed to intense pressures from human
  activities: urbanization, dense transportation network, industry,
  intense animal breeding and crop cultivation; air and water
  pollution also have repercussions for neighboring countries;
  uncertainties regarding federal and regional responsibilities (now
  resolved) have impeded progress in tackling environmental challenges

Belize:
  deforestation; water pollution from sewage, industrial
  effluents, agricultural runoff; solid waste disposal

Benin:
  inadequate supplies of potable water; poaching threatens
  wildlife populations; deforestation; desertification

Bermuda:
  asbestos disposal; water pollution; preservation of open
  space

Bhutan:
  soil erosion; limited access to potable water

Bolivia:
  the clearing of land for agricultural purposes and the
  international demand for tropical timber are contributing to
  deforestation; soil erosion from overgrazing and poor cultivation
  methods (including slash-and-burn agriculture); desertification;
  loss of biodiversity; industrial pollution of water supplies used
  for drinking and irrigation

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  air pollution from metallurgical plants;
  sites for disposing of urban waste are limited; water shortages and
  destruction of infrastructure because of the 1992-95 civil strife

Botswana:
  overgrazing; desertification; limited fresh water resources

Bouvet Island:
  NA

Brazil:
  deforestation in Amazon Basin destroys the habitat and
  endangers the existence of a multitude of plant and animal species
  indigenous to the area; air and water pollution in Rio de Janeiro,
  Sao Paulo, and several other large cities; land degradation and
  water pollution caused by improper mining activities

  note:  President CARDOSO in September 1999 signed into force an
  environmental crime bill which for the first time defines pollution
  and deforestation as crimes punishable by stiff fines and jail
  sentences

British Indian Ocean Territory:
  NA

British Virgin Islands:
  limited natural fresh water resources
  (except for a few seasonal streams and springs on Tortola, most of
  the islands' water supply comes from wells and rainwater catchment)

Brunei:
  seasonal smoke/haze resulting from forest fires in Indonesia

Bulgaria:
  air pollution from industrial emissions; rivers polluted
  from raw sewage, heavy metals, detergents; deforestation; forest
  damage from air pollution and resulting acid rain; soil
  contamination from heavy metals from metallurgical plants and
  industrial wastes

Burkina Faso:
  recent droughts and desertification severely affecting
  agricultural activities, population distribution, and the economy;
  overgrazing; soil degradation; deforestation

Burma:
  deforestation; industrial pollution of air, soil, and water;
  inadequate sanitation and water treatment contribute to disease

Burundi:
  soil erosion as a result of overgrazing and the expansion
  of agriculture into marginal lands; deforestation (little forested
  land remains because of uncontrolled cutting of trees for fuel);
  habitat loss threatens wildlife populations

Cambodia:
  illegal logging activities throughout the country and
  strip mining for gems in the western region along the border with
  Thailand have resulted in habitat loss and declining biodiversity
  (in particular, destruction of mangrove swamps threatens natural
  fisheries); soil erosion; in rural areas, a majority of the
  population does not have access to potable water; toxic waste
  delivery from Taiwan sparked unrest in Kampong Saom (Sihanoukville)
  in December 1998

Cameroon:
  water-borne diseases are prevalent; deforestation;
  overgrazing; desertification; poaching; overfishing

Canada:
  air pollution and resulting acid rain severely affecting
  lakes and damaging forests; metal smelting, coal-burning utilities,
  and vehicle emissions impacting on agricultural and forest
  productivity; ocean waters becoming contaminated due to
  agricultural, industrial, mining, and forestry activities

Cape Verde:
  overgrazing of livestock and improper land use such as
  the cultivation of crops on steep slopes has led to soil erosion;
  demand for wood used as fuel has resulted in deforestation;
  desertification; environmental damage has threatened several species
  of birds and reptiles; overfishing

Cayman Islands:
  no natural fresh water resources; drinking water
  supplies must be met by rainwater catchment

Central African Republic:
  tap water is not potable; poaching has
  diminished its reputation as one of the last great wildlife refuges;
  desertification; deforestation

Chad:
  inadequate supplies of potable water; improper waste disposal
  in rural areas contributes to soil and water pollution;
  desertification

Chile:
  air pollution from industrial and vehicle emissions; water
  pollution from raw sewage

China:
  air pollution (greenhouse gases, sulfur dioxide particulates)
  from reliance on coal, produces acid rain; water shortages,
  particularly in the north; water pollution from untreated wastes;
  deforestation; estimated loss of one-fifth of agricultural land
  since 1949 to soil erosion and economic development;
  desertification; trade in endangered species

Christmas Island:
  NA

Clipperton Island:
  NA

Cocos (Keeling) Islands:
  fresh water resources are limited to
  rainwater accumulations in natural underground reservoirs

Colombia:
  deforestation; soil damage from overuse of pesticides; air
  pollution, especially in Bogota, from vehicle emissions

Comoros:
  soil degradation and erosion results from crop cultivation
  on slopes without proper terracing; deforestation

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  poaching threatens wildlife
  populations; water pollution; deforestation; refugees who arrived in
  mid-1994 were responsible for significant deforestation, soil
  erosion, and wildlife poaching in the eastern part of the country
  (most of those refugees were repatriated in November and December
  1996)

Congo, Republic of the:
  air pollution from vehicle emissions; water
  pollution from the dumping of raw sewage; tap water is not potable;
  deforestation

Cook Islands:
  NA

Coral Sea Islands:
  no permanent fresh water resources

Costa Rica:
  deforestation and land use change, largely a result of
  the clearing of land for cattle ranching and agriculture; soil
  erosion; water pollution (rivers); coastal marine pollution;
  wetlands degradation; fisheries protection; solid waste management;
  air pollution

Cote d'Ivoire:
  deforestation (most of the country's forests - once
  the largest in West Africa - have been heavily logged); water
  pollution from sewage and industrial and agricultural effluents

Croatia:
  air pollution (from metallurgical plants) and resulting
  acid rain is damaging the forests; coastal pollution from industrial
  and domestic waste; landmine removal and reconstruction of
  infrastructure consequent to 1992-95 civil strife

Cuba:
  pollution of Havana Bay; overhunting threatens wildlife
  populations; deforestation

Cyprus:
  water resource problems (no natural reservoir catchments,
  seasonal disparity in rainfall, sea water intrusion to island's
  largest aquifer, increased salination in the north); water pollution
  from sewage and industrial wastes; coastal degradation; loss of
  wildlife habitats from urbanization

Czech Republic:
  air and water pollution in areas of northwest
  Bohemia and in northern Moravia around Ostrava present health risks;
  acid rain damaging forests

Denmark:
  air pollution, principally from vehicle and power plant
  emissions; nitrogen and phosphorus pollution of the North Sea;
  drinking and surface water becoming polluted from animal wastes and
  pesticides

Djibouti:
  inadequate supplies of potable water; desertification

Dominica:
  NA

Dominican Republic:
  water shortages; soil eroding into the sea
  damages coral reefs; deforestation; Hurricane Georges damage

Ecuador:
  deforestation; soil erosion; desertification; water
  pollution; pollution from oil production wastes

Egypt:
  agricultural land being lost to urbanization and windblown
  sands; increasing soil salination below Aswan High Dam;
  desertification; oil pollution threatening coral reefs, beaches, and
  marine habitats; other water pollution from agricultural pesticides,
  raw sewage, and industrial effluents; very limited natural fresh
  water resources away from the Nile which is the only perennial water
  source; rapid growth in population overstraining natural resources

El Salvador:
  deforestation; soil erosion; water pollution;
  contamination of soils from disposal of toxic wastes; Hurricane
  Mitch damage

Equatorial Guinea:
  tap water is not potable; desertification

Eritrea:
  deforestation; desertification; soil erosion; overgrazing;
  loss of infrastructure from civil warfare

Estonia:
  air heavily polluted with sulfur dioxide from oil-shale
  burning power plants in northeast; contamination of soil and
  groundwater with petroleum products, chemicals at former Soviet
  military bases; Estonia has more than 1,400 natural and manmade
  lakes, the smaller of which in agricultural areas are heavily
  affected by organic waste; coastal sea water is polluted in many
  locations

Ethiopia:
  deforestation; overgrazing; soil erosion; desertification

Europa Island:
  NA

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas):
  NA

Faroe Islands:
  NA

Fiji:
  deforestation; soil erosion

Finland:
  air pollution from manufacturing and power plants
  contributing to acid rain; water pollution from industrial wastes,
  agricultural chemicals; habitat loss threatens wildlife populations

France:
  some forest damage from acid rain (major forest damage
  occurred as a result of severe December 1999 windstorm); air
  pollution from industrial and vehicle emissions; water pollution
  from urban wastes, agricultural runoff

French Guiana:
  NA

French Polynesia:
  NA

French Southern and Antarctic Lands:
  NA

Gabon:
  deforestation; poaching

Gambia, The:
  deforestation; desertification; water-borne diseases
  prevalent

Gaza Strip:
  desertification; salination of fresh water; sewage
  treatment; water-borne disease; soil degradation

Georgia:
  air pollution, particularly in Rust'avi; heavy pollution of
  Mtkvari River and the Black Sea; inadequate supplies of potable
  water; soil pollution from toxic chemicals

Germany:
  emissions from coal-burning utilities and industries
  contribute to air pollution; acid rain, resulting from sulfur
  dioxide emissions, is damaging forests; pollution in the Baltic Sea
  from raw sewage and industrial effluents from rivers in eastern
  Germany; hazardous waste disposal; government currently attempting
  to define mechanism for ending the use of nuclear power; government
  working to meet EU commitment to identify nature preservation areas
  in line with the EU's Flora, Fauna, and Habitat directive

Ghana:
  recent drought in north severely affecting agricultural
  activities; deforestation; overgrazing; soil erosion; poaching and
  habitat destruction threatens wildlife populations; water pollution;
  inadequate supplies of potable water

Gibraltar:
  limited natural freshwater resources; large concrete or
  natural rock water catchments collect rainwater

Glorioso Islands:
  NA

Greece:
  air pollution; water pollution

Greenland:
  protection of the arctic environment; preservation of the
  Inuit traditional way of life, including whaling and seal hunting

Grenada:
  NA

Guadeloupe:
  NA

Guam:
  extirpation of native bird population by the rapid
  proliferation of the brown tree snake, an exotic species

Guatemala:
  deforestation; soil erosion; water pollution; Hurricane
  Mitch damage

Guernsey:
  NA

Guinea:
  deforestation; inadequate supplies of potable water;
  desertification; soil contamination and erosion; overfishing,
  overpopulation in forest region

Guinea-Bissau:
  deforestation; soil erosion; overgrazing; overfishing

Guyana:
  water pollution from sewage and agricultural and industrial
  chemicals; deforestation

Haiti:
  extensive deforestation (much of the remaining forested land
  is being cleared for agriculture and used as fuel); soil erosion;
  inadequate supplies of potable water

Heard Island and McDonald Islands:
  NA

Holy See (Vatican City):
  NA

Honduras:
  urban population expanding; deforestation results from
  logging and the clearing of land for agricultural purposes; further
  land degradation and soil erosion hastened by uncontrolled
  development and improper land use practices such as farming of
  marginal lands; mining activities polluting Lago de Yojoa (the
  country's largest source of fresh water) as well as several rivers
  and streams with heavy metals; severe Hurricane Mitch damage

Hong Kong:
  air and water pollution from rapid urbanization

Howland Island:
  no natural fresh water resources

Hungary:
  the approximation of Hungary's standards in waste
  management, energy efficiency, and air, soil, and water pollution
  with environmental requirements for EU accession will require large
  investments

Iceland:
  water pollution from fertilizer runoff; inadequate
  wastewater treatment

India:
  deforestation; soil erosion; overgrazing; desertification;
  air pollution from industrial effluents and vehicle emissions; water
  pollution from raw sewage and runoff of agricultural pesticides; tap
  water is not potable throughout the country; huge and growing
  population is overstraining natural resources

Indian Ocean:
  endangered marine species include the dugong, seals,
  turtles, and whales; oil pollution in the Arabian Sea, Persian Gulf,
  and Red Sea

Indonesia:
  deforestation; water pollution from industrial wastes,
  sewage; air pollution in urban areas; smoke and haze from forest
  fires

Iran:
  air pollution, especially in urban areas, from vehicle
  emissions, refinery operations, and industrial effluents;
  deforestation; overgrazing; desertification; oil pollution in the
  Persian Gulf; inadequate supplies of potable water

Iraq:
  government water control projects have drained most of the
  inhabited marsh areas east of An Nasiriyah by drying up or diverting
  the feeder streams and rivers; a once sizable population of Shi'a
  Muslims, who have inhabited these areas for thousands of years, has
  been displaced; furthermore, the destruction of the natural habitat
  poses serious threats to the area's wildlife populations; inadequate
  supplies of potable water; development of Tigris-Euphrates Rivers
  system contingent upon agreements with upstream riparian Turkey; air
  and water pollution; soil degradation (salination) and erosion;
  desertification

Ireland:
  water pollution, especially of lakes, from agricultural
  runoff

Israel:
  limited arable land and natural fresh water resources pose
  serious constraints; desertification; air pollution from industrial
  and vehicle emissions; groundwater pollution from industrial and
  domestic waste, chemical fertilizers, and pesticides

Italy:
  air pollution from industrial emissions such as sulfur
  dioxide; coastal and inland rivers polluted from industrial and
  agricultural effluents; acid rain damaging lakes; inadequate
  industrial waste treatment and disposal facilities

Jamaica:
  heavy rates of deforestation; coastal waters polluted by
  industrial waste, sewage, and oil spills; damage to coral reefs; air
  pollution in Kingston results from vehicle emissions

Jan Mayen:
  NA

Japan:
  air pollution from power plant emissions results in acid
  rain; acidification of lakes and reservoirs degrading water quality
  and threatening aquatic life; Japan is one of the largest consumers
  of fish and tropical timber, contributing to the depletion of these
  resources in Asia and elsewhere

Jarvis Island:
  no natural fresh water resources

Jersey:
  NA

Johnston Atoll:
  no natural fresh water resources

Jordan:
  limited natural fresh water resources; deforestation;
  overgrazing; soil erosion; desertification

Juan de Nova Island:
  NA

Kazakhstan:
  radioactive or toxic chemical sites associated with its
  former defense industries and test ranges are found throughout the
  country and pose health risks for humans and animals; industrial
  pollution is severe in some cities; because the two main rivers
  which flowed into the Aral Sea have been diverted for irrigation, it
  is drying up and leaving behind a harmful layer of chemical
  pesticides and natural salts; these substances are then picked up by
  the wind and blown into noxious dust storms; pollution in the
  Caspian Sea; soil pollution from overuse of agricultural chemicals
  and salination from poor infrastructure and wasteful irrigation
  practices

Kenya:
  water pollution from urban and industrial wastes; degradation
  of water quality from increased use of pesticides and fertilizers;
  water hyacinth infestation in Lake Victoria; deforestation; soil
  erosion; desertification; poaching

Kingman Reef:
  none

Kiribati:
  heavy pollution in lagoon of south Tarawa atoll due to
  heavy migration mixed with traditional practices such as lagoon
  latrines and open-pit dumping; ground water at risk

Korea, North:
  water pollution; inadequate supplies of potable water;
  water-borne disease; deforestation; soil erosion and degradation

Korea, South:
  air pollution in large cities; acid rain; water
  pollution from the discharge of sewage and industrial effluents;
  drift net fishing

Kuwait:
  limited natural fresh water resources; some of world's
  largest and most sophisticated desalination facilities provide much
  of the water; air and water pollution; desertification

Kyrgyzstan:
  water pollution; many people get their water directly
  from contaminated streams and wells; as a result, water-borne
  diseases are prevalent; increasing soil salinity from faulty
  irrigation practices

Laos:
  unexploded ordnance; deforestation; soil erosion; a majority
  of the population does not have access to potable water

Latvia:
  air and water pollution because of a lack of waste
  conversion equipment; Gulf of Riga and Daugava River heavily
  polluted; contamination of soil and groundwater with chemicals and
  petroleum products at military bases

Lebanon:
  deforestation; soil erosion; desertification; air pollution
  in Beirut from vehicular traffic and the burning of industrial
  wastes; pollution of coastal waters from raw sewage and oil spills

Lesotho:
  population pressure forcing settlement in marginal areas
  results in overgrazing, severe soil erosion, and soil exhaustion;
  desertification; Highlands Water Project controls, stores, and
  redirects water to South Africa

Liberia:
  tropical rain forest subject to deforestation; soil
  erosion; loss of biodiversity; pollution of coastal waters from oil
  residue and raw sewage

Libya:
  desertification; very limited natural fresh water resources;
  the Great Manmade River Project, the largest water development
  scheme in the world, is being built to bring water from large
  aquifers under the Sahara to coastal cities

Liechtenstein:
  NA

Lithuania:
  contamination of soil and groundwater with petroleum
  products and chemicals at military bases

Luxembourg:
  air and water pollution in urban areas, soil pollution
  of farmland

Macau:
  NA

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  air pollution from
  metallurgical plants

Madagascar:
  soil erosion results from deforestation and overgrazing;
  desertification; surface water contaminated with raw sewage and
  other organic wastes; several species of flora and fauna unique to
  the island are endangered

Malawi:
  deforestation; land degradation; water pollution from
  agricultural runoff, sewage, industrial wastes; siltation of
  spawning grounds endangers fish populations

Malaysia:
  air pollution from industrial and vehicular emissions;
  water pollution from raw sewage; deforestation; smoke/haze from
  Indonesian forest fires

Maldives:
  depletion of freshwater aquifers threatens water supplies;
  global warming and sea level rise; coral reef bleaching

Mali:
  deforestation; soil erosion; desertification; inadequate
  supplies of potable water; poaching

Malta:
  very limited natural fresh water resources; increasing
  reliance on desalination

Man, Isle of:
  waste disposal (both household and industrial);
  transboundary air pollution

Marshall Islands:
  inadequate supplies of potable water

Martinique:
  NA

Mauritania:
  overgrazing, deforestation, and soil erosion aggravated
  by drought are contributing to desertification; very limited natural
  fresh water resources away from the Senegal which is the only
  perennial river

Mauritius:
  water pollution, degradation of coral reefs

Mayotte:
  NA

Mexico:
  natural fresh water resources scarce and polluted in north,
  inaccessible and poor quality in center and extreme southeast; raw
  sewage and industrial effluents polluting rivers in urban areas;
  deforestation; widespread erosion; desertification; serious air
  pollution in the national capital and urban centers along US-Mexico
  border

Micronesia, Federated States of:
  overfishing

Midway Islands:
  NA

Moldova:
  heavy use of agricultural chemicals, including banned
  pesticides such as DDT, has contaminated soil and groundwater;
  extensive soil erosion from poor farming methods

Monaco:
  NA

Mongolia:
  limited natural fresh water resources in some areas;
  policies of the former communist regime promoting rapid urbanization
  and industrial growth have raised concerns about their negative
  effects on the environment; the burning of soft coal in power plants
  and the lack of enforcement of environmental laws have severely
  polluted the air in Ulaanbaatar; deforestation, overgrazing, the
  converting of virgin land to agricultural production have increased
  soil erosion from wind and rain; desertification and mining
  activities have also had a deleterious effect on the environment

Montserrat:
  land erosion occurs on slopes that have been cleared for
  cultivation

Morocco:
  land degradation/desertification (soil erosion resulting
  from farming of marginal areas, overgrazing, destruction of
  vegetation); water supplies contaminated by raw sewage; siltation of
  reservoirs; oil pollution of coastal waters

Mozambique:
  a long civil war and recurrent drought in the
  hinterlands have resulted in increased migration of the population
  to urban and coastal areas with adverse environmental consequences;
  desertification; pollution of surface and coastal waters

Namibia:
  very limited natural fresh water resources; desertification

Nauru:
  limited natural fresh water resources, roof storage tanks
  collect rainwater, but mostly dependent on a single, aging
  desalination plant; intensive phosphate mining during the past 90
  years - mainly by a UK, Australia, and NZ consortium - has left the
  central 90% of Nauru a wasteland and threatens limited remaining
  land resources

Navassa Island:
  NA

Nepal:
  deforestation (overuse of wood for fuel and lack of
  alternatives); contaminated water (with human and animal wastes,
  agricultural runoff, and industrial effluents); wildlife
  conservation; vehicular emissions

Netherlands:
  water pollution in the form of heavy metals, organic
  compounds, and nutrients such as nitrates and phosphates; air
  pollution from vehicles and refining activities; acid rain

Netherlands Antilles:
  NA

New Caledonia:
  erosion caused by mining exploitation and forest fires

New Zealand:
  deforestation; soil erosion; native flora and fauna
  hard-hit by species introduced from outside

Nicaragua:
  deforestation; soil erosion; water pollution; Hurricane
  Mitch damage

Niger:
  overgrazing; soil erosion; deforestation; desertification;
  wildlife populations (such as elephant, hippopotamus, giraffe, and
  lion) threatened because of poaching and habitat destruction

Nigeria:
  soil degradation; rapid deforestation; desertification

Niue:
  increasing attention to conservationist practices to counter
  loss of soil fertility from traditional slash and burn agriculture

Norfolk Island:
  NA

Northern Mariana Islands:
  contamination of groundwater on Saipan may
  contribute to disease; clean-up of landfill; protection of
  endangered species conflicts with development

Norway:
  water pollution; acid rain damaging forests and adversely
  affecting lakes, threatening fish stocks; air pollution from vehicle
  emissions

Oman:
  rising soil salinity; beach pollution from oil spills; very
  limited natural fresh water resources

Pacific Ocean:
  endangered marine species include the dugong, sea
  lion, sea otter, seals, turtles, and whales; oil pollution in
  Philippine Sea and South China Sea

Pakistan:
  water pollution from raw sewage, industrial wastes, and
  agricultural runoff; limited natural fresh water resources; a
  majority of the population does not have access to potable water;
  deforestation; soil erosion; desertification

Palau:
  inadequate facilities for disposal of solid waste; threats to
  the marine ecosystem from sand and coral dredging, illegal fishing
  practices, and overfishing

Palmyra Atoll:
  NA

Panama:
  water pollution from agricultural runoff threatens fishery
  resources; deforestation of tropical rain forest; land degradation
  and soil erosion threatens siltation of Panama Canal

Papua New Guinea:
  rain forest subject to deforestation as a result
  of growing commercial demand for tropical timber; pollution from
  mining projects; severe drought

Paracel Islands:
  NA

Paraguay:
  deforestation (an estimated 2 million hectares of forest
  land were lost from 1958-85); water pollution; inadequate means for
  waste disposal present health risks for many urban residents

Peru:
  deforestation (some the result of illegal logging);
  overgrazing of the slopes of the costa and sierra leading to soil
  erosion; desertification; air pollution in Lima; pollution of rivers
  and coastal waters from municipal and mining wastes

Philippines:
  uncontrolled deforestation in watershed areas; soil
  erosion; air and water pollution in Manila; increasing pollution of
  coastal mangrove swamps which are important fish breeding grounds

Pitcairn Islands:
  deforestation (only a small portion of the
  original forest remains because of burning and clearing for
  settlement)

Poland:
  situation has improved since 1989 due to decline in heavy
  industry and increased environmental concern by postcommunist
  governments; air pollution nonetheless remains serious because of
  sulfur dioxide emissions from coal-fired power plants, and the
  resulting acid rain has caused forest damage; water pollution from
  industrial and municipal sources is also a problem, as is disposal
  of hazardous wastes

Portugal:
  soil erosion; air pollution caused by industrial and
  vehicle emissions; water pollution, especially in coastal areas

Puerto Rico:
  erosion; occasional drought causing water shortages

Qatar:
  limited natural fresh water resources are increasing
  dependence on large-scale desalination facilities

Reunion:
  NA

Romania:
  soil erosion and degradation; water pollution; air
  pollution in south from industrial effluents; contamination of
  Danube delta wetlands

Russia:
  air pollution from heavy industry, emissions of coal-fired
  electric plants, and transportation in major cities; industrial,
  municipal, and agricultural pollution of inland waterways and sea
  coasts; deforestation; soil erosion; soil contamination from
  improper application of agricultural chemicals; scattered areas of
  sometimes intense radioactive contamination; ground water
  contamination from toxic waste

Rwanda:
  deforestation results from uncontrolled cutting of trees for
  fuel; overgrazing; soil exhaustion; soil erosion; widespread poaching

Saint Helena:
  NA

Saint Kitts and Nevis:
  NA

Saint Lucia:
  deforestation; soil erosion, particularly in the
  northern region

Saint Pierre and Miquelon:
  NA

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:
  pollution of coastal waters and
  shorelines from discharges by pleasure yachts and other effluents;
  in some areas, pollution is severe enough to make swimming
  prohibitive

Samoa:
  soil erosion

San Marino:
  NA

Sao Tome and Principe:
  deforestation; soil erosion and exhaustion

Saudi Arabia:
  desertification; depletion of underground water
  resources; the lack of perennial rivers or permanent water bodies
  has prompted the development of extensive seawater desalination
  facilities; coastal pollution from oil spills

Senegal:
  wildlife populations threatened by poaching; deforestation;
  overgrazing; soil erosion; desertification; overfishing

Seychelles:
  water supply depends on catchments to collect rainwater

Sierra Leone:
  rapid population growth pressuring the environment;
  overharvesting of timber, expansion of cattle grazing, and
  slash-and-burn agriculture have resulted in deforestation and soil
  exhaustion; civil war depleting natural resources; overfishing

Singapore:
  industrial pollution; limited natural fresh water
  resources; limited land availability presents waste disposal
  problems; seasonal smoke/haze resulting from forest fires in
  Indonesia

Slovakia:
  air pollution from metallurgical plants presents human
  health risks; acid rain damaging forests

Slovenia:
  Sava River polluted with domestic and industrial waste;
  pollution of coastal waters with heavy metals and toxic chemicals;
  forest damage near Koper from air pollution (originating at
  metallurgical and chemical plants) and resulting acid rain

Solomon Islands:
  deforestation; soil erosion; much of the
  surrounding coral reefs are dead or dying

Somalia:
  famine; use of contaminated water contributes to human
  health problems; deforestation; overgrazing; soil erosion;
  desertification

South Africa:
  lack of important arterial rivers or lakes requires
  extensive water conservation and control measures; growth in water
  usage threatens to outpace supply; pollution of rivers from
  agricultural runoff and urban discharge; air pollution resulting in
  acid rain; soil erosion; desertification

South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands:
  NA

Southern Ocean:
  increased solar ultraviolet radiation resulting from
  the Antarctic ozone hole in recent years, reducing marine primary
  productivity (phytoplankton) by as much as 15% and damaging the DNA
  of some fish; illegal, unreported, and unregulated fishing in recent
  years, especially the landing of an estimated five to six times more
  Patagonian toothfish than the regulated fishery, which is likely to
  affect the sustainability of the stock; large amount of incidental
  mortality of seabirds resulting from long-line fishing for toothfish

  note:  the now-protected fur seal population is making a strong
  comeback after severe overexploitation in the 18th and 19th centuries

Spain:
  pollution of the Mediterranean Sea from raw sewage and
  effluents from the offshore production of oil and gas; water quality
  and quantity nationwide; air pollution; deforestation;
  desertification

Spratly Islands:
  NA

Sri Lanka:
  deforestation; soil erosion; wildlife populations
  threatened by poaching and urbanization; coastal degradation from
  mining activities and increased pollution; freshwater resources
  being polluted by industrial wastes and sewage runoff; waste
  disposal; air pollution in Colombo

Sudan:
  inadequate supplies of potable water; wildlife populations
  threatened by excessive hunting; soil erosion; desertification

Suriname:
  deforestation as timber is cut for export; pollution of
  inland waterways by small-scale mining activities

Svalbard:
  NA

Swaziland:
  limited supplies of potable water; wildlife populations
  being depleted because of excessive hunting; overgrazing; soil
  degradation; soil erosion

Sweden:
  acid rain damaging soils and lakes; pollution of the North
  Sea and the Baltic Sea

Switzerland:
  air pollution from vehicle emissions and open-air
  burning; acid rain; water pollution from increased use of
  agricultural fertilizers; loss of biodiversity

Syria:
  deforestation; overgrazing; soil erosion; desertification;
  water pollution from dumping of raw sewage and wastes from petroleum
  refining; inadequate supplies of potable water

Tajikistan:
  inadequate sanitation facilities; increasing levels of
  soil salinity; industrial pollution; excessive pesticides; part of
  the basin of the shrinking Aral Sea suffers from severe
  overutilization of available water for irrigation and associated
  pollution

Tanzania:
  soil degradation; deforestation; desertification;
  destruction of coral reefs threatens marine habitats; recent
  droughts affected marginal agriculture

Thailand:
  air pollution from vehicle emissions; water pollution from
  organic and factory wastes; deforestation; soil erosion; wildlife
  populations threatened by illegal hunting

Togo:
  deforestation attributable to slash-and-burn agriculture and
  the use of wood for fuel; water pollution presents health hazards
  and hinders the fishing industry; air pollution increasing in urban
  areas

Tokelau:
  very limited natural resources and overcrowding are
  contributing to emigration to New Zealand

Tonga:
  deforestation results as more and more land is being cleared
  for agriculture and settlement; some damage to coral reefs from
  starfish and indiscriminate coral and shell collectors; overhunting
  threatens native sea turtle populations

Trinidad and Tobago:
  water pollution from agricultural chemicals,
  industrial wastes, and raw sewage; oil pollution of beaches;
  deforestation; soil erosion

Tromelin Island:
  NA

Tunisia:
  toxic and hazardous waste disposal is ineffective and
  presents human health risks; water pollution from raw sewage;
  limited natural fresh water resources; deforestation; overgrazing;
  soil erosion; desertification

Turkey:
  water pollution from dumping of chemicals and detergents;
  air pollution, particularly in urban areas; deforestation; concern
  for oil spills from increasing Bosporus ship traffic

Turkmenistan:
  contamination of soil and groundwater with
  agricultural chemicals, pesticides; salination, water-logging of
  soil due to poor irrigation methods; Caspian Sea pollution;
  diversion of a large share of the flow of the Amu Darya into
  irrigation contributes to that river's inability to replenish the
  Aral Sea; desertification

Turks and Caicos Islands:
  limited natural fresh water resources,
  private cisterns collect rainwater

Tuvalu:
  since there are no streams or rivers and groundwater is not
  potable, most water needs must be met by catchment systems with
  storage facilities (the Japanese Government has built one
  desalination plant and plans to build one other); beachhead erosion
  because of the use of sand for building materials; excessive
  clearance of forest undergrowth for use as fuel; damage to coral
  reefs from the spread of the Crown of Thorns starfish; Tuvalu is
  very concerned about global increases in greenhouse gas emissions
  and their effect on rising sea levels, which threaten the country's
  underground water table

Uganda:
  draining of wetlands for agricultural use; deforestation;
  overgrazing; soil erosion; water hyacinth infestation in Lake
  Victoria; poaching is widespread

Ukraine:
  inadequate supplies of potable water; air and water
  pollution; deforestation; radiation contamination in the northeast
  from 1986 accident at Chornobyl' Nuclear Power Plant

United Arab Emirates:
  lack of natural freshwater resources being
  overcome by desalination plants; desertification; beach pollution
  from oil spills

United Kingdom:
  continues to reduce greenhouse gas emissions (has
  meet Kyoto Protocol target of a 12.5% reduction from 1990 levels and
  hopes to reduce even more); small particulate emissions, largely
  from vehicular traffic, remain a problem; solid waste continues to
  rise and recycling is very limited

United States:
  air pollution resulting in acid rain in both the US
  and Canada; the US is the largest single emitter of carbon dioxide
  from the burning of fossil fuels; water pollution from runoff of
  pesticides and fertilizers; very limited natural fresh water
  resources in much of the western part of the country require careful
  management; desertification

Uruguay:
  water pollution from meat packing/tannery industry;
  inadequate solid/hazardous waste disposal

Uzbekistan:
  drying up of the Aral Sea is resulting in growing
  concentrations of chemical pesticides and natural salts; these
  substances are then blown from the increasingly exposed lake bed and
  contribute to desertification; water pollution from industrial
  wastes and the heavy use of fertilizers and pesticides is the cause
  of many human health disorders; increasing soil salination; soil
  contamination from agricultural chemicals, including DDT

Vanuatu:
  a majority of the population does not have access to a
  potable and reliable supply of water; deforestation

Venezuela:
  sewage pollution of Lago de Valencia; oil and urban
  pollution of Lago de Maracaibo; deforestation; soil degradation;
  urban and industrial pollution, especially along the Caribbean
  coast; threat to the rainforest ecosystem from irresponsible mining
  operations

Vietnam:
  logging and slash-and-burn agricultural practices
  contribute to deforestation and soil degradation; water pollution
  and overfishing threaten marine life populations; groundwater
  contamination limits potable water supply; growing urban
  industrialization and population migration are rapidly degrading
  environment in Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh City

Virgin Islands:
  lack of natural freshwater resources

Wake Island:
  NA

Wallis and Futuna:
  deforestation (only small portions of the
  original forests remain) largely as a result of the continued use of
  wood as the main fuel source; as a consequence of cutting down the
  forests, the mountainous terrain of Futuna is particularly prone to
  erosion; there are no permanent settlements on Alofi because of the
  lack of natural fresh water resources

West Bank:
  adequacy of fresh water supply; sewage treatment

Western Sahara:
  sparse water and lack of arable land

World:
  large areas subject to overpopulation, industrial disasters,
  pollution (air, water, acid rain, toxic substances), loss of
  vegetation (overgrazing, deforestation, desertification), loss of
  wildlife, soil degradation, soil depletion, erosion

Yemen:
  very limited natural fresh water resources; inadequate
  supplies of potable water; overgrazing; soil erosion; desertification

Yugoslavia:
  pollution of coastal waters from sewage outlets,
  especially in tourist-related areas such as Kotor; air pollution
  around Belgrade and other industrial cities; water pollution from
  industrial wastes dumped into the Sava which flows into the Danube

Zambia:
  air pollution and resulting acid rain in the mineral
  extraction and refining region; chemical runoff into watersheds;
  poaching seriously threatens rhinoceros, elephant, antelope, and
  large cat populations; deforestation; soil erosion; desertification;
  lack of adequate water treatment presents human health risks

Zimbabwe:
  deforestation; soil erosion; land degradation; air and
  water pollution; the black rhinoceros herd - once the largest
  concentration of the species in the world - has been significantly
  reduced by poaching

Taiwan:
  air pollution; water pollution from industrial emissions,
  raw sewage; contamination of drinking water supplies; trade in
  endangered species; low-level radioactive waste disposal

======================================================================

@Environment - international agreements



Afghanistan:
  party to:  Desertification, Endangered Species,
  Environmental Modification, Marine Dumping, Nuclear Test Ban

  signed, but not ratified:  Biodiversity, Climate Change, Hazardous
  Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Life Conservation

Albania:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification,
  Hazardous Wastes, Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands

  signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Algeria:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification,
  Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes,
  Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands

  signed, but not ratified:  Nuclear Test Ban

Andorra:
  party to:  Hazardous Wastes

  signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Angola:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification,
  Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection

  signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Antigua and Barbuda:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate Change,
  Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
  Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine
  Dumping, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution,
  Whaling

  signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Argentina:
  party to:  Antarctic-Environmental Protocol,
  Antarctic-Marine Living Resources, Antarctic Seals, Antarctic
  Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered
  Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the
  Sea, Marine Dumping, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship
  Pollution, Wetlands, Whaling

  signed, but not ratified:  Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Marine
  Life Conservation

Armenia:
  party to:  Air Pollution, Biodiversity, Climate Change,
  Desertification, Hazardous Wastes, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer
  Protection, Wetlands

  signed, but not ratified:  Air Pollution-Persistent Organic
  Pollutants

Australia:
  party to:  Antarctic-Environmental Protocol,
  Antarctic-Marine Living Resources, Antarctic Seals, Antarctic
  Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered
  Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the
  Sea, Marine Dumping, Marine Life Conservation, Nuclear Test Ban,
  Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical
  Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling

  signed, but not ratified:  Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol

Austria:
  party to:  Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides,
  Air Pollution-Sulphur 85, Air Pollution-Sulphur 94, Air
  Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds, Antarctic Treaty,
  Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species,
  Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea,
  Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical
  Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling

  signed, but not ratified:  Air Pollution-Persistent Organic
  Pollutants, Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Climate Change-Kyoto
  Protocol

Azerbaijan:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate
  Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Marine
  Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection

  signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Bahamas, The:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate
  Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
  Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer
  Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands

  signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Bahrain:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification,
  Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands

  signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Bangladesh:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate Change,
  Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification,
  Hazardous Wastes, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands

  signed, but not ratified:  Law of the Sea

Barbados:
  party to:  Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol,
  Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the
  Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution

  signed, but not ratified:  Biodiversity

Belarus:
  party to:  Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides,
  Air Pollution-Sulphur 85, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Endangered
  Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Marine
  Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands

  signed, but not ratified:  Law of the Sea

Belgium:
  party to:  Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides,
  Air Pollution-Sulphur 94, Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds,
  Air Pollution-Sulphur 85, Antarctic-Environmental Protocol,
  Antarctic-Marine Living Resources, Antarctic Seals, Antarctic
  Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered
  Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the
  Sea, Marine Dumping, Marine Life Conservation, Nuclear Test Ban,
  Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical
  Timber 94, Wetlands

  signed, but not ratified:  Air Pollution-Persistent Organic
  Pollutants, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol

Belize:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification,
  Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer
  Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands

  signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Benin:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification,
  Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes,
  Law of the Sea, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship
  Pollution, Wetlands

  signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Bhutan:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate Change, Nuclear Test Ban

  signed, but not ratified:  Law of the Sea

Bolivia:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate
  Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
  Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Nuclear Test Ban, Ship Pollution,
  Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands

  signed, but not ratified:  Environmental Modification, Marine
  Dumping, Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer Protection

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  party to:  Air Pollution, Climate Change,
  Law of the Sea, Marine Life Conservation, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone
  Layer Protection

  signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Botswana:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification,
  Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Nuclear Test
  Ban, Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands

  signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Brazil:
  party to:  Antarctic-Environmental Protocol,
  Antarctic-Marine Living Resources, Antarctic Seals, Antarctic
  Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered
  Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the
  Sea, Marine Dumping, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship
  Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling

  signed, but not ratified:  Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol

Brunei:
  party to:  Endangered Species, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer
  Protection, Ship Pollution

  signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Bulgaria:
  party to:  Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides,
  Air Pollution-Sulphur 85, Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds,
  Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic-Marine Living Resources,
  Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Endangered Species,
  Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea,
  Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands

  signed, but not ratified:  Air Pollution-Persistent Organic
  Pollutants, Air Pollution-Sulphur 94, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol

Burkina Faso:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate Change,
  Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Marine Life
  Conservation, Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands

  signed, but not ratified:  Law of the Sea, Nuclear Test Ban

Burma:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification,
  Endangered Species, Law of the Sea, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer
  Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94

  signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Burundi:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification,
  Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Ozone Layer Protection

  signed, but not ratified:  Law of the Sea, Nuclear Test Ban

Cambodia:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification,
  Endangered Species, Marine Life Conservation, Ship Pollution,
  Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands

  signed, but not ratified:  Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping

Cameroon:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification,
  Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer
  Protection, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94

  signed, but not ratified:  Nuclear Test Ban

Canada:
  party to:  Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air
  Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants, Air Pollution-Sulphur 85,
  Air Pollution-Sulphur 94, Antarctic-Marine Living Resources,
  Antarctic Seals, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change,
  Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification,
  Hazardous Wastes, Marine Dumping, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer
  Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94,
  Wetlands

  signed, but not ratified:  Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds,
  Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Law
  of the Sea, Marine Life Conservation

Cape Verde:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate Change,
  Desertification, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law
  of the Sea, Marine Dumping

  signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Central African Republic:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate Change,
  Desertification, Endangered Species, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer
  Protection, Tropical Timber 94

  signed, but not ratified:  Law of the Sea

Chad:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification,
  Endangered Species, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection,
  Wetlands

  signed, but not ratified:  Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping

Chile:
  party to:  Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic-Marine
  Living Resources, Antarctic Seals, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity,
  Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental
  Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping,
  Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands, Whaling

  signed, but not ratified:  Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Nuclear
  Test Ban

China:
  party to:  Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic
  Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered
  Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Nuclear
  Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber
  83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling

  signed, but not ratified:  Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Marine
  Life Conservation

Colombia:
  party to:  Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change,
  Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Marine Life
  Conservation, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship
  Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands

  signed, but not ratified:  Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Law of
  the Sea, Marine Dumping

Comoros:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification,
  Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer
  Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands

  signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate
  Change, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law
  of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer
  Protection, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands

  signed, but not ratified:  Environmental Modification

Congo, Republic of the:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate Change,
  Desertification, Endangered Species, Ozone Layer Protection,
  Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands

  signed, but not ratified:  Law of the Sea

Cook Islands:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate Change,
  Desertification, Law of the Sea

  signed, but not ratified:  Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol

Costa Rica:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate Change,
  Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification,
  Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Nuclear Test Ban,
  Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands, Whaling

  signed, but not ratified:  Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Marine
  Life Conservation

Cote d'Ivoire:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate Change,
  Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the
  Sea, Marine Dumping, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship
  Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands

  signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Croatia:
  party to:  Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Sulphur 94,
  Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species,
  Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Nuclear Test Ban,
  Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands

  signed, but not ratified:  Air Pollution-Persistent Organic
  Pollutants, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol

Cuba:
  party to:  Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change,
  Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification,
  Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer
  Protection, Ship Pollution

  signed, but not ratified:  Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Climate
  Change-Kyoto Protocol, Marine Life Conservation

Cyprus:
  party to:  Air Pollution, Biodiversity, Climate Change,
  Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
  Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine
  Dumping, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution

  signed, but not ratified:  Air Pollution-Persistent Organic
  Pollutants

Czech Republic:
  party to:  Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen
  Oxides, Air Pollution-Sulphur 85, Air Pollution-Sulphur 94, Air
  Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds, Antarctic Treaty,
  Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species,
  Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea,
  Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands

  signed, but not ratified:  Air Pollution-Persistent Organic
  Pollutants, Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Climate Change-Kyoto
  Protocol

Denmark:
  party to:  Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides,
  Air Pollution-Sulphur 85, Air Pollution-Sulphur 94, Air
  Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds, Antarctic Treaty,
  Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species,
  Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Marine Dumping, Marine
  Life Conservation, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship
  Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling

  signed, but not ratified:  Air Pollution-Persistent Organic
  Pollutants, Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Climate Change-Kyoto
  Protocol, Law of the Sea

Djibouti:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification,
  Endangered Species, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship
  Pollution

  signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Dominica:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification,
  Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes,
  Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Whaling

  signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Dominican Republic:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate Change,
  Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Marine
  Dumping, Marine Life Conservation, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer
  Protection, Ship Pollution

  signed, but not ratified:  Law of the Sea

Ecuador:
  party to:  Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic
  Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol,
  Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Nuclear Test
  Ban, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83,
  Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands

  signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Egypt:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification,
  Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes,
  Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer
  Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94,
  Wetlands

  signed, but not ratified:  Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol

El Salvador:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate
  Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
  Hazardous Wastes, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands

  signed, but not ratified:  Law of the Sea

Equatorial Guinea:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate
  Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Law of
  the Sea, Ship Pollution

  signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Eritrea:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification,
  Endangered Species

  signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Estonia:
  party to:  Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides,
  Air Pollution-Sulphur 85, Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds,
  Biodiversity, Climate Change, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes,
  Ship Pollution, Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands

  signed, but not ratified:  Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol

Ethiopia:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification,
  Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Ozone Layer Protection

  signed, but not ratified:  Environmental Modification, Law of the
  Sea, Nuclear Test Ban

Fiji:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
  Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Law of the Sea,
  Marine Life Conservation, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection,
  Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94

  signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Finland:
  party to:  Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides,
  Air Pollution-Sulphur 85, Air Pollution-Sulphur 94, Air
  Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds, Antarctic-Environmental
  Protocol, Antarctic-Marine Living Resources, Antarctic Treaty,
  Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species,
  Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine
  Dumping, Marine Life Conservation, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer
  Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94,
  Wetlands, Whaling

  signed, but not ratified:  Air Pollution-Persistent Organic
  Pollutants, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol

France:
  party to:  Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air
  Pollution-Sulphur 85, Air Pollution-Sulphur 94, Air
  Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds, Antarctic-Environmental
  Protocol, Antarctic-Marine Living Resources, Antarctic Seals,
  Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification,
  Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine
  Dumping, Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship
  Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling

  signed, but not ratified:  Air Pollution-Persistent Organic
  Pollutants, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol

Gabon:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification,
  Endangered Species, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Nuclear Test
  Ban, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83,
  Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands

  signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Gambia, The:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate Change,
  Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the
  Sea, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution,
  Wetlands

  signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Georgia:
  party to:  Air Pollution, Biodiversity, Climate Change,
  Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
  Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship
  Pollution, Wetlands

  signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Germany:
  party to:  Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides,
  Air Pollution-Sulphur 85, Air Pollution-Sulphur 94, Air
  Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds, Antarctic-Environmental
  Protocol, Antarctic-Marine Living Resources, Antarctic Seals,
  Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification,
  Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes,
  Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer
  Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94,
  Wetlands, Whaling

  signed, but not ratified:  Air Pollution-Persistent Organic
  Pollutants, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol

Ghana:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification,
  Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Law of the Sea,
  Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical
  Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands

  signed, but not ratified:  Marine Life Conservation

Greece:
  party to:  Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air
  Pollution-Sulphur 94, Antarctic-Environmental Protocol,
  Antarctic-Marine Living Resources, Biodiversity, Climate Change,
  Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification,
  Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Nuclear Test Ban,
  Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical
  Timber 94, Wetlands

  signed, but not ratified:  Air Pollution-Persistent Organic
  Pollutants, Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds, Antarctic
  Treaty, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol

Grenada:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification,
  Endangered Species, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Whaling

  signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Guatemala:
  party to:  Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate
  Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered
  Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the
  Sea, Marine Dumping, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship
  Pollution, Wetlands

  signed, but not ratified:  Antarctic-Environmental Protocol

Guinea:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate
  Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
  Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands,
  Whaling

  signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Guinea-Bissau:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate Change,
  Desertification, Endangered Species, Law of the Sea, Wetlands

  signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Guyana:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification,
  Endangered Species, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship
  Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94

  signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Haiti:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification, Law
  of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer
  Protection

  signed, but not ratified:  Hazardous Wastes, Nuclear Test Ban

Holy See (Vatican City):
  party to:  none of the selected agreements

  signed, but not ratified:  Air Pollution, Environmental Modification

Honduras:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate
  Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
  Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Nuclear Test Ban,
  Ozone Layer Protection, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94,
  Wetlands

  signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Hong Kong:
  party to:  Marine Dumping (associate member), Ship
  Pollution (associate member)

Hungary:
  party to:  Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides,
  Air Pollution-Sulphur 85, Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds,
  Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification,
  Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes,
  Marine Dumping, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship
  Pollution, Wetlands

  signed, but not ratified:  Air Pollution-Persistent Organic
  Pollutants, Air Pollution-Sulphur 94, Antarctic-Environmental
  Protocol, Law of the Sea

Iceland:
  party to:  Air Pollution, Biodiversity, Climate Change,
  Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification,
  Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Nuclear Test Ban,
  Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands

  signed, but not ratified:  Air Pollution-Persistent Organic
  Pollutants, Marine Life Conservation

India:
  party to:  Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic-Marine
  Living Resources, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change,
  Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification,
  Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer
  Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94,
  Wetlands, Whaling

  signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Indonesia:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification,
  Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Nuclear Test
  Ban, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83,
  Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands

  signed, but not ratified:  Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Marine
  Life Conservation

Iran:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification,
  Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Marine Dumping, Nuclear Test
  Ban, Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands

  signed, but not ratified:  Environmental Modification, Law of the
  Sea, Marine Life Conservation

Iraq:
  party to:  Law of the Sea, Nuclear Test Ban

  signed, but not ratified:  Environmental Modification

Ireland:
  party to:  Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides,
  Air Pollution-Sulphur 94, Biodiversity, Climate Change,
  Desertification, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law
  of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer
  Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94,
  Wetlands, Whaling

  signed, but not ratified:  Air Pollution-Persistent Organic
  Pollutants, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Endangered Species,
  Marine Life Conservation

Israel:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification,
  Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer
  Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands

  signed, but not ratified:  Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Marine
  Life Conservation

Italy:
  party to:  Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air
  Pollution-Sulphur 85, Air Pollution-Sulphur 94, Air
  Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds, Antarctic-Environmental
  Protocol, Antarctic-Marine Living Resources, Antarctic Seals,
  Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification,
  Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes,
  Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer
  Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94,
  Wetlands, Whaling

  signed, but not ratified:  Air Pollution-Persistent Organic
  Pollutants, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol

Jamaica:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate
  Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Law of
  the Sea, Marine Dumping, Marine Life Conservation, Nuclear Test Ban,
  Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands

  signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Japan:
  party to:  Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic-Marine
  Living Resources, Antarctic Seals, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity,
  Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental
  Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping,
  Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical
  Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling

  signed, but not ratified:  Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol

Jordan:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification,
  Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine
  Dumping, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands

  signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Kazakhstan:
  party to:  Air Pollution, Biodiversity, Climate Change,
  Desertification, Endangered Species, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship
  Pollution

  signed, but not ratified:  Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol

Kenya:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification,
  Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine
  Dumping, Marine Life Conservation, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer
  Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands, Whaling

  signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Kiribati:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate
  Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Hazardous Wastes, Marine
  Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection

  signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Korea, North:
  party to:  Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate
  Change, Environmental Modification, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship
  Pollution

  signed, but not ratified:  Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Law of
  the Sea

Korea, South:
  party to:  Antarctic-Environmental Protocol,
  Antarctic-Marine Living Resources, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity,
  Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental
  Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping,
  Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical
  Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling

  signed, but not ratified:  Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol

Kuwait:
  party to:  Climate Change, Desertification, Environmental
  Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Nuclear Test Ban,
  Ozone Layer Protection

  signed, but not ratified:  Biodiversity, Endangered Species, Marine
  Dumping

Kyrgyzstan:
  party to:  Air Pollution, Biodiversity, Climate Change,
  Desertification, Hazardous Wastes, Ozone Layer Protection

  signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Laos:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification,
  Environmental Modification, Law of the Sea, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone
  Layer Protection

  signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Latvia:
  party to:  Air Pollution, Biodiversity, Climate Change,
  Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship
  Pollution, Wetlands

  signed, but not ratified:  Air Pollution-Persistent Organic
  Pollutants, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol

Lebanon:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification,
  Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer
  Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands

  signed, but not ratified:  Environmental Modification, Marine
  Dumping, Marine Life Conservation

Lesotho:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate
  Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Hazardous Wastes, Marine
  Life Conservation, Ozone Layer Protection

  signed, but not ratified:  Endangered Species, Law of the Sea,
  Marine Dumping

Liberia:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Desertification, Endangered
  Species, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution,
  Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94

  signed, but not ratified:  Climate Change, Environmental
  Modification, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Marine Life
  Conservation

Libya:
  party to:  Climate Change, Desertification, Marine Dumping,
  Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands

  signed, but not ratified:  Biodiversity, Law of the Sea, Nuclear
  Test Ban

Liechtenstein:
  party to:  Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen
  Oxides, Air Pollution-Sulphur 85, Air Pollution-Sulphur 94, Air
  Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds, Biodiversity, Climate Change,
  Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Ozone Layer
  Protection, Wetlands

  signed, but not ratified:  Air Pollution-Persistent Organic
  Pollutants, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Law of the Sea

Lithuania:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate Change, Hazardous
  Wastes, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands

  signed, but not ratified:  Air Pollution-Persistent Organic
  Pollutants, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol

Luxembourg:
  party to:  Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides,
  Air Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants, Air Pollution-Sulphur
  85, Air Pollution-Sulphur 94, Air Pollution-Volatile Organic
  Compounds, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered
  Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Nuclear
  Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber
  83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands

  signed, but not ratified:  Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol,
  Environmental Modification

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  party to:  Air
  Pollution, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Endangered Species,
  Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands

  signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Madagascar:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate Change,
  Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Marine Life
  Conservation, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands

  signed, but not ratified:  Law of the Sea

Malawi:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification,
  Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes,
  Marine Life Conservation, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection,
  Wetlands

  signed, but not ratified:  Law of the Sea

Malaysia:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification,
  Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Life
  Conservation, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship
  Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands

  signed, but not ratified:  Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol

Maldives:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate
  Change-Kyoto Protocol, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer
  Protection

  signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Mali:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification,
  Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer
  Protection, Wetlands

  signed, but not ratified:  Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Nuclear
  Test Ban

Malta:
  party to:  Air Pollution, Biodiversity, Climate Change,
  Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the
  Sea, Marine Dumping, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship
  Pollution, Wetlands

  signed, but not ratified:  Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol

Marshall Islands:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate Change,
  Desertification, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship
  Pollution

  signed, but not ratified:  Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol

Mauritania:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate Change,
  Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the
  Sea, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution,
  Wetlands

  signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Mauritius:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification,
  Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes,
  Law of the Sea, Marine Life Conservation, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone
  Layer Protection, Ship Pollution

  signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Mexico:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate
  Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
  Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Marine Life
  Conservation, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship
  Pollution, Wetlands, Whaling

  signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Micronesia, Federated States of:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate
  Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Hazardous
  Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection

  signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Moldova:
  party to:  Air Pollution, Biodiversity, Climate Change,
  Desertification, Hazardous Wastes, Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands

  signed, but not ratified:  Air Pollution-Persistent Organic
  Pollutants

Monaco:
  party to:  Air Pollution, Biodiversity, Climate Change,
  Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the
  Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution,
  Wetlands, Whaling

  signed, but not ratified:  Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol

Mongolia:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate
  Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
  Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone
  Layer Protection, Wetlands

  signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Morocco:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification,
  Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Marine Dumping, Nuclear Test
  Ban, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands, Whaling

  signed, but not ratified:  Environmental Modification, Law of the Sea

Mozambique:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate Change,
  Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the
  Sea, Ozone Layer Protection

  signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Namibia:
  party to:  Antarctic-Marine Living Resources, Biodiversity,
  Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous
  Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands

  signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Nauru:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification, Law
  of the Sea, Marine Dumping

  signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Nepal:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification,
  Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Nuclear Test
  Ban, Ozone Layer Protection, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94,
  Wetlands

  signed, but not ratified:  Marine Dumping, Marine Life Conservation

Netherlands:
  party to:  Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen
  Oxides, Air Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants, Air
  Pollution-Sulphur 85, Air Pollution-Sulphur 94, Air
  Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds, Antarctic-Environmental
  Protocol, Antarctic-Marine Living Resources, Antarctic Treaty,
  Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species,
  Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine
  Dumping, Marine Life Conservation, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer
  Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94,
  Wetlands, Whaling

  signed, but not ratified:  Biodiversity, Climate Change-Kyoto
  Protocol

New Zealand:
  party to:  Antarctic-Environmental Protocol,
  Antarctic-Marine Living Resources, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity,
  Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental
  Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping,
  Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical
  Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling

  signed, but not ratified:  Antarctic Seals, Climate Change-Kyoto
  Protocol, Marine Life Conservation

Nicaragua:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate
  Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
  Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer
  Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands

  signed, but not ratified:  Environmental Modification

Niger:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification,
  Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes,
  Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands

  signed, but not ratified:  Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Law of the
  Sea

Nigeria:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification,
  Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine
  Dumping, Marine Life Conservation, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer
  Protection, Wetlands

  signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Niue:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
  Protocol, Desertification

  signed, but not ratified:  Law of the Sea

Norway:
  party to:  Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air
  Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants, Air Pollution-Sulphur 85,
  Air Pollution-Sulphur 94, Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds,
  Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic-Marine Living Resources,
  Antarctic Seals, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change,
  Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification,
  Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Nuclear Test Ban,
  Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical
  Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling

  signed, but not ratified:  Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds,
  Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol

Oman:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification,
  Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer
  Protection, Ship Pollution, Whaling

  signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Pakistan:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification,
  Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes,
  Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship
  Pollution, Wetlands

  signed, but not ratified:  Marine Life Conservation, Nuclear Test Ban

Palau:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
  Protocol, Desertification, Law of the Sea

  signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Panama:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate
  Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
  Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Nuclear Test Ban,
  Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical
  Timber 94, Wetlands

  signed, but not ratified:  Marine Life Conservation

Papua New Guinea:
  party to:  Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate
  Change, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental
  Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping,
  Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical
  Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands

  signed, but not ratified:  Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Climate
  Change-Kyoto Protocol

Paraguay:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate
  Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
  Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands

  signed, but not ratified:  Nuclear Test Ban

Peru:
  party to:  Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic-Marine
  Living Resources, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change,
  Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Nuclear Test
  Ban, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83,
  Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling

  signed, but not ratified:  Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol

Philippines:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate Change,
  Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the
  Sea, Marine Dumping, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection,
  Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands

  signed, but not ratified:  Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol

Poland:
  party to:  Air Pollution, Antarctic-Environmental Protocol,
  Antarctic-Marine Living Resources, Antarctic Seals, Antarctic
  Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Endangered Species,
  Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine
  Dumping, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution,
  Wetlands

  signed, but not ratified:  Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air
  Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants, Air Pollution-Sulphur 94,
  Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol

Portugal:
  party to:  Air Pollution, Biodiversity, Climate Change,
  Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the
  Sea, Marine Dumping, Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer
  Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94,
  Wetlands

  signed, but not ratified:  Air Pollution-Persistent Organic
  Pollutants, Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds, Climate
  Change-Kyoto Protocol, Environmental Modification, Nuclear Test Ban

Qatar:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification,
  Hazardous Wastes, Ozone Layer Protection

  signed, but not ratified:  Law of the Sea

Romania:
  party to:  Air Pollution, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity,
  Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental
  Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Nuclear Test Ban,
  Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands

  signed, but not ratified:  Air Pollution-Persistent Organic
  Pollutants, Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Climate Change-Kyoto
  Protocol

Russia:
  party to:  Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air
  Pollution-Sulphur 85, Antarctic-Environmental Protocol,
  Antarctic-Marine Living Resources, Antarctic Seals, Antarctic
  Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Endangered Species,
  Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine
  Dumping, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution,
  Tropical Timber 83, Wetlands, Whaling

  signed, but not ratified:  Air Pollution-Sulphur 94, Climate
  Change-Kyoto Protocol

Rwanda:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification,
  Endangered Species, Nuclear Test Ban

  signed, but not ratified:  Law of the Sea

Saint Kitts and Nevis:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate Change,
  Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the
  Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Whaling

  signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Saint Lucia:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate Change,
  Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification,
  Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer
  Protection, Ship Pollution, Whaling

  signed, but not ratified:  Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate
  Change, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental
  Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer
  Protection, Ship Pollution, Whaling

  signed, but not ratified:  Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol

Samoa:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto
  Protocol, Desertification, Law of the Sea, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone
  Layer Protection

  signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

San Marino:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate Change,
  Desertification, Nuclear Test Ban

  signed, but not ratified:  Air Pollution

Sao Tome and Principe:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate Change,
  Desertification, Environmental Modification, Law of the Sea, Ship
  Pollution

  signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Saudi Arabia:
  party to:  Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered
  Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection

  signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Senegal:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification,
  Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Life
  Conservation, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship
  Pollution, Wetlands, Whaling

  signed, but not ratified:  Marine Dumping

Seychelles:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate Change,
  Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the
  Sea, Marine Dumping, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship
  Pollution

  signed, but not ratified:  Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol

Sierra Leone:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate Change,
  Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Law
  of the Sea, Marine Life Conservation, Nuclear Test Ban, Wetlands

  signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Singapore:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification,
  Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Nuclear Test
  Ban, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution

  signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Slovakia:
  party to:  Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides,
  Air Pollution-Sulphur 85, Air Pollution-Sulphur 94, Air
  Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds, Antarctic Treaty,
  Biodiversity, Climate Change, Endangered Species, Environmental
  Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Nuclear Test Ban,
  Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands

  signed, but not ratified:  Air Pollution-Persistent Organic
  Pollutants, Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Climate Change-Kyoto
  Protocol

Slovenia:
  party to:  Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Sulphur 94,
  Biodiversity, Climate Change, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes,
  Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer
  Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands

  signed, but not ratified:  Air Pollution-Persistent Organic
  Pollutants, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol

Solomon Islands:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate Change,
  Desertification, Environmental Modification, Law of the Sea, Marine
  Dumping, Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer Protection, Whaling

  signed, but not ratified:  Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol

Somalia:
  party to:  Endangered Species, Law of the Sea

  signed, but not ratified:  Marine Dumping, Nuclear Test Ban

South Africa:
  party to:  Antarctic-Environmental Protocol,
  Antarctic-Marine Living Resources, Antarctic Seals, Antarctic
  Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered
  Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Marine
  Life Conservation, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship
  Pollution, Wetlands, Whaling

  signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Southern Ocean:
  the Southern Ocean is subject to all international
  agreements regarding the world's oceans; in addition, it is subject
  to these agreements specific to the Antarctic region: International
  Whaling Commission (prohibits commercial whaling south of 40 degrees
  south [south of 60 degrees south between 50 degrees and 130 degrees
  west]); Convention on the Conservation of Antarctic Seals (limits
  sealing); Convention on the Conservation of Antarctic Marine Living
  Resources (regulates fishing)

  note:  many nations (including the US) prohibit mineral resource
  exploration and exploitation south of the fluctuating Polar Front
  (Antarctic Convergence) which is in the middle of the Antarctic
  Circumpolar Current and serves as the dividing line between the very
  cold polar surface waters to the south and the warmer waters to the
  north

Spain:
  party to:  Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air
  Pollution-Sulphur 94, Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds,
  Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic-Marine Living Resources,
  Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Endangered Species,
  Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine
  Dumping, Marine Life Conservation, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer
  Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94,
  Wetlands, Whaling

  signed, but not ratified:  Air Pollution-Persistent Organic
  Pollutants, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification

Sri Lanka:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification,
  Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes,
  Law of the Sea, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship
  Pollution, Wetlands

  signed, but not ratified:  Marine Life Conservation

Sudan:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification,
  Endangered Species, Law of the Sea, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer
  Protection

  signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Suriname:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification,
  Endangered Species, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Nuclear Test
  Ban, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 94,
  Wetlands

  signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Swaziland:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate Change, Endangered
  Species, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection

  signed, but not ratified:  Desertification, Law of the Sea

Sweden:
  party to:  Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air
  Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants, Air Pollution-Sulphur 85,
  Air Pollution-Sulphur 94, Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds,
  Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic-Marine Living Resources,
  Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification,
  Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes,
  Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer
  Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94,
  Wetlands, Whaling

  signed, but not ratified:  Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol

Switzerland:
  party to:  Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen
  Oxides, Air Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants, Air
  Pollution-Sulphur 85, Air Pollution-Sulphur 94, Air
  Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds, Antarctic Treaty,
  Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species,
  Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Marine Dumping, Marine
  Life Conservation, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship
  Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling

  signed, but not ratified:  Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Climate
  Change-Kyoto Protocol, Law of the Sea

Syria:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification,
  Hazardous Wastes, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship
  Pollution, Wetlands

  signed, but not ratified:  Environmental Modification

Tajikistan:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate Change,
  Desertification, Environmental Modification, Ozone Layer Protection

  signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Tanzania:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification,
  Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer
  Protection, Wetlands

  signed, but not ratified:  Nuclear Test Ban

Thailand:
  party to:  Climate Change, Endangered Species, Hazardous
  Wastes, Marine Life Conservation, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer
  Protection, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands

  signed, but not ratified:  Biodiversity, Climate Change-Kyoto
  Protocol, Law of the Sea

Togo:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification,
  Endangered Species, Law of the Sea, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer
  Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94,
  Wetlands

  signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Tonga:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification, Law
  of the Sea, Marine Life Conservation, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer
  Protection, Ship Pollution

  signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Trinidad and Tobago:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate Change,
  Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
  Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Life Conservation, Nuclear
  Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber
  83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands

  signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Tunisia:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification,
  Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes,
  Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer
  Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands

  signed, but not ratified:  Marine Life Conservation

Turkey:
  party to:  Air Pollution, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity,
  Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Nuclear Test
  Ban, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands

  signed, but not ratified:  Antarctic-Environmental Protocol,
  Environmental Modification

Turkmenistan:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate
  Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Hazardous Wastes, Ozone
  Layer Protection

  signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Tuvalu:
  party to:  Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol,
  Desertification, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution

  signed, but not ratified:  Biodiversity, Law of the Sea

Uganda:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification,
  Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Life
  Conservation, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands

  signed, but not ratified:  Environmental Modification

Ukraine:
  party to:  Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides,
  Air Pollution-Sulphur 85, Antarctic-Marine Living Resources,
  Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Endangered Species,
  Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine
  Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands

  signed, but not ratified:  Air Pollution-Persistent Organic
  Pollutants, Air Pollution-Sulphur 94, Air Pollution-Volatile Organic
  Compounds, Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Climate Change-Kyoto
  Protocol

United Arab Emirates:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate Change,
  Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Marine
  Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection

  signed, but not ratified:  Law of the Sea

United Kingdom:
  party to:  Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen
  Oxides, Air Pollution-Sulphur 94, Air Pollution-Volatile Organic
  Compounds, Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic-Marine Living
  Resources, Antarctic Seals, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate
  Change, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental
  Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping,
  Marine Life Conservation, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection,
  Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands,
  Whaling

  signed, but not ratified:  Air Pollution-Persistent Organic
  Pollutants, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol

United States:
  party to:  Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen
  Oxides, Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic-Marine Living
  Resources, Antarctic Seals, Antarctic Treaty, Climate Change,
  Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification,
  Marine Dumping, Marine Life Conservation, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone
  Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical
  Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling

  signed, but not ratified:  Air Pollution-Persistent Organic
  Pollutants, Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds, Biodiversity,
  Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Hazardous Wastes

Uruguay:
  party to:  Antarctic-Environmental Protocol,
  Antarctic-Marine Living Resources, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity,
  Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification,
  Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes,
  Law of the Sea, Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer Protection,
  Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands

  signed, but not ratified:  Marine Dumping, Nuclear Test Ban

Uzbekistan:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate
  Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species,
  Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Ozone Layer Protection

  signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Vanuatu:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification,
  Endangered Species, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer
  Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 94

  signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Venezuela:
  party to:  Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate
  Change, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes,
  Marine Life Conservation, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection,
  Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands

  signed, but not ratified:  Marine Dumping

Vietnam:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification,
  Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes,
  Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands

  signed, but not ratified:  Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Nuclear
  Test Ban

Western Sahara:
  party to:  none of the selected agreements

  signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Yemen:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification,
  Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes,
  Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection

  signed, but not ratified:  Nuclear Test Ban

Yugoslavia:
  party to:  Air Pollution, Climate Change, Hazardous
  Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Marine Life Conservation,
  Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands

  signed, but not ratified:  Biodiversity

Zambia:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification,
  Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Nuclear Test
  Ban, Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands

  signed, but not ratified:  Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol

Zimbabwe:
  party to:  Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification,
  Endangered Species, Law of the Sea, Ozone Layer Protection

  signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

Taiwan:
  party to:  none of the selected agreements

  signed, but not ratified:  none of the selected agreements

======================================================================

@Ethnic groups



Afghanistan:
  Pashtun 38%, Tajik 25%, Hazara 19%, minor ethnic groups
  (Aimaks, Turkmen, Baloch, and others) 12%, Uzbek 6%

Albania:
  Albanian 95%, Greeks 3%, other 2% (Vlachs, Gypsies, Serbs,
  and Bulgarians) (1989 est.)

  note:  in 1989, other estimates of the Greek population ranged from
  1% (official Albanian statistics) to 12% (from a Greek organization)

Algeria:
  Arab-Berber 99%, European less than 1%

American Samoa:
  Samoan (Polynesian) 89%, Caucasian 2%, Tongan 4%,
  other 5%

Andorra:
  Spanish 43%, Andorran 33%, Portuguese 11%, French 7%, other
  6% (1998)

Angola:
  Ovimbundu 37%, Kimbundu 25%, Bakongo 13%, mestico (mixed
  European and Native African) 2%, European 1%, other 22%

Anguilla:
  black

Antigua and Barbuda:
  black, British, Portuguese, Lebanese, Syrian

Argentina:
  white (mostly Spanish and Italian) 97%, mestizo,
  Amerindian, or other nonwhite groups 3%

Armenia:
  Armenian 93%, Azeri 3%, Russian 2%, other (mostly Yezidi
  Kurds) 2% (1989)

  note:  as of the end of 1993, virtually all Azeris had emigrated
  from Armenia

Aruba:
  mixed white/Caribbean Amerindian 80%

Australia:
  Caucasian 92%, Asian 7%, aboriginal and other 1%

Austria:
  German 98%, Croatian, Slovene, other (includes Hungarians,
  Czechs, Slovaks, Roma)

Azerbaijan:
  Azeri 90%, Dagestani 3.2%, Russian 2.5%, Armenian 2%,
  other 2.3% (1998 est.)

  note:  almost all Armenians live in the separatist Nagorno-Karabakh
  region

Bahamas, The:
  black 85%, white 12%, Asian and Hispanic 3%

Bahrain:
  Bahraini 63%, Asian 19%, other Arab 10%, Iranian 8%

Bangladesh:
  Bengali 98%, tribal groups, non-Bengali Muslims (1998)

Barbados:
  black 80%, white 4%, other 16%

Belarus:
  Byelorussian 81.2%, Russian 11.4%, Polish, Ukrainian, and
  other 7.4%

Belgium:
  Fleming 58%, Walloon 31%, mixed or other 11%

Belize:
  mestizo 43.7%, Creole 29.8%, Maya 10%, Garifuna 6.2%, other
  10.3%

Benin:
  African 99% (42 ethnic groups, most important being Fon,
  Adja, Yoruba, Bariba), Europeans 5,500

Bermuda:
  black 58%, white 36%, other 6%

Bhutan:
  Bhote 50%, ethnic Nepalese 35%, indigenous or migrant tribes
  15%

Bolivia:
  Quechua 30%, Aymara 25%, mestizo (mixed white and
  Amerindian ancestry) 30%, white 15%

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  Serb 31%, Bosniak 44%, Croat 17%, Yugoslav
  5.5%, other 2.5% (1991)

  note:  Bosniak has replaced muslim as an ethnic term in part to
  avoid confusion with the religious term Muslim - an adherent of Islam

Botswana:
  Tswana (or Setswana) 79%, Kalanga 11%, Basarwa 3%, other,
  including Kgalagadi and white 7%

Brazil:
  white (includes Portuguese, German, Italian, Spanish,
  Polish) 55%, mixed white and black 38%, black 6%, other (includes
  Japanese, Arab, Amerindian) 1%

British Virgin Islands:
  black 90%, white, Asian

Brunei:
  Malay 67%, Chinese 15%, indigenous 6%, other 12%

Bulgaria:
  Bulgarian 83%, Turk 8.5%, Roma 2.6%, Macedonian, Armenian,
  Tatar, Gagauz, Circassian, others (1998)

Burkina Faso:
  Mossi over 40%, Gurunsi, Senufo, Lobi, Bobo, Mande,
  Fulani

Burma:
  Burman 68%, Shan 9%, Karen 7%, Rakhine 4%, Chinese 3%, Mon
  2%, Indian 2%, other 5%

Burundi:
  Hutu (Bantu) 85%, Tutsi (Hamitic) 14%, Twa (Pygmy) 1%,
  Europeans 3,000, South Asians 2,000

Cambodia:
  Khmer 90%, Vietnamese 5%, Chinese 1%, other 4%

Cameroon:
  Cameroon Highlanders 31%, Equatorial Bantu 19%, Kirdi 11%,
  Fulani 10%, Northwestern Bantu 8%, Eastern Nigritic 7%, other
  African 13%, non-African less than 1%

Canada:
  British Isles origin 28%, French origin 23%, other European
  15%, Amerindian 2%, other, mostly Asian, African, Arab 6%, mixed
  background 26%

Cape Verde:
  Creole (mulatto) 71%, African 28%, European 1%

Cayman Islands:
  mixed 40%, white 20%, black 20%, expatriates of
  various ethnic groups 20%

Central African Republic:
  Baya 34%, Banda 27%, Sara 10%, Mandjia
  21%, Mboum 4%, M'Baka 4%, Europeans 6,500 (including 1,500 French)

Chad:
  Muslims, commonly referred to as "northerners" or "gorane"
  (Arabs, Toubou, Hadjerai, Fulbe, Kotoko, Kanembou, Baguirmi,
  Boulala, Zaghawa, and Maba); non-Muslims, commonly referred to as
  "southerners" (Sara, Ngambaye, Mbaye, Goulaye, Moundang, Moussei,
  Massa) including nonindigenous 150,000 (of whom 1,000 are French)

  note:  ethnicity and regional background more commonly used to
  identify Chadians than religious affiliation

Chile:
  white and white-Amerindian 95%, Amerindian 3%, other 2%

China:
  Han Chinese 91.9%, Zhuang, Uygur, Hui, Yi, Tibetan, Miao,
  Manchu, Mongol, Buyi, Korean, and other nationalities 8.1%

Christmas Island:
  Chinese 61%, Malay 25%, European 11%, other 3%, no
  indigenous population

Cocos (Keeling) Islands:
  Europeans, Cocos Malays

Colombia:
  mestizo 58%, white 20%, mulatto 14%, black 4%, mixed
  black-Amerindian 3%, Amerindian 1%

Comoros:
  Antalote, Cafre, Makoa, Oimatsaha, Sakalava

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  over 200 African ethnic groups of
  which the majority are Bantu; the four largest tribes - Mongo, Luba,
  Kongo (all Bantu), and the Mangbetu-Azande (Hamitic) make up about
  45% of the population

Congo, Republic of the:
  Kongo 48%, Sangha 20%, M'Bochi 12%, Teke
  17%, Europeans NA%; note - Europeans estimated at 8,500, mostly
  French, before the 1997 civil war; may be half that of 1998,
  following the widespread destruction of foreign businesses in 1997

Cook Islands:
  Polynesian (full blood) 81.3%, Polynesian and European
  7.7%, Polynesian and non-European 7.7%, European 2.4%, other 0.9%

Costa Rica:
  white (including mestizo) 94%, black 3%, Amerindian 1%,
  Chinese 1%, other 1%

Cote d'Ivoire:
  Akan 42.1%, Voltaiques or Gur 17.6%, Northern Mandes
  16.5%, Krous 11%, Southern Mandes 10%, other 2.8% (1998)

Croatia:
  Croat 78.1%, Serb 12.2%, Bosniak 0.9%, Hungarian 0.5%,
  Slovenian 0.5%, Czech 0.4%, Albanian 0.3%, Montenegrin 0.3%, Roma
  0.2%, others 6.6% (1991)

Cuba:
  mulatto 51%, white 37%, black 11%, Chinese 1%

Cyprus:
  Greek 78% (99.5% of the Greeks live in the Greek Cypriot
  area; 0.5% of the Greeks live in the Turkish Cypriot area), Turkish
  18% (1.3% of the Turks live in the Greek Cypriot area; 98.7% of the
  Turks live in the Turkish Cypriot area), other 4% (99.2% of the
  other ethnic groups live in the Greek Cypriot area; 0.8% of the
  other ethnic groups live in the Turkish Cypriot area)

Czech Republic:
  Czech 81.2%, Moravian 13.2%, Slovak 3.1%, Polish
  0.6%, German 0.5%, Silesian 0.4%, Roma 0.3%, Hungarian 0.2%, other
  0.5% (1991)

Denmark:
  Scandinavian, Inuit, Faroese, German, Turkish, Iranian,
  Somali

Djibouti:
  Somali 60%, Afar 35%, French, Arab, Ethiopian, and Italian
  5%

Dominica:
  black, Carib Amerindian

Dominican Republic:
  white 16%, black 11%, mixed 73%

Ecuador:
  mestizo (mixed Amerindian and white) 65%, Amerindian 25%,
  Spanish and others 7%, black 3%

Egypt:
  Eastern Hamitic stock (Egyptians, Bedouins, and Berbers) 99%,
  Greek, Nubian, Armenian, other European (primarily Italian and
  French) 1%

El Salvador:
  mestizo 90%, Amerindian 1%, white 9%

Equatorial Guinea:
  Bioko (primarily Bubi, some Fernandinos), Rio
  Muni (primarily Fang), Europeans less than 1,000, mostly Spanish

Eritrea:
  ethnic Tigrinya 50%, Tigre and Kunama 40%, Afar 4%, Saho
  (Red Sea coast dwellers) 3%

Estonia:
  Estonian 65.1%, Russian 28.1%, Ukrainian 2.5%, Byelorussian
  1.5%, Finn 1%, other 1.8% (1998)

Ethiopia:
  Oromo 40%, Amhara and Tigre 32%, Sidamo 9%, Shankella 6%,
  Somali 6%, Afar 4%, Gurage 2%, other 1%

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas):
  British

Faroe Islands:
  Scandinavian

Fiji:
  Fijian 51% (predominantly Melanesian with a Polynesian
  admixture), Indian 44%, European, other Pacific Islanders, overseas
  Chinese, and other 5% (1998 est.)

Finland:
  Finn 93%, Swede 6%, Sami 0.11%, Roma 0.12%, Tatar 0.02%

France:
  Celtic and Latin with Teutonic, Slavic, North African,
  Indochinese, Basque minorities

French Guiana:
  black or mulatto 66%, white 12%, East Indian,
  Chinese, Amerindian 12%, other 10%

French Polynesia:
  Polynesian 78%, Chinese 12%, local French 6%,
  metropolitan French 4%

Gabon:
  Bantu tribes including four major tribal groupings (Fang,
  Eshira, Bapounou, Bateke), other Africans and Europeans 154,000,
  including 10,700 French and 11,000 persons of dual nationality

Gambia, The:
  African 99% (Mandinka 42%, Fula 18%, Wolof 16%, Jola
  10%, Serahuli 9%, other 4%), non-African 1%

Gaza Strip:
  Palestinian Arab and other 99.4%, Jewish 0.6%

Georgia:
  Georgian 70.1%, Armenian 8.1%, Russian 6.3%, Azeri 5.7%,
  Ossetian 3%, Abkhaz 1.8%, other 5%

Germany:
  German 91.5%, Turkish 2.4%, other 6.1% (made up largely of
  Serbo-Croatian, Italian, Russian, Greek, Polish, Spanish)

Ghana:
  black African 99.8% (major tribes - Akan 44%, Moshi-Dagomba
  16%, Ewe 13%, Ga 8%), European and other 0.2%

Gibraltar:
  Spanish, Italian, English, Maltese, Portuguese

Greece:
  Greek 98%, other 2%

  note:  the Greek Government states there are no ethnic divisions in
  Greece

Greenland:
  Greenlander 88% (Inuit and Greenland-born whites), Danish
  and others 12% (January 2000)

Grenada:
  black 82% some South Asians (East Indians) and Europeans,
  trace Arawak/Carib Amerindian

Guadeloupe:
  black or mulatto 90%, white 5%, East Indian, Lebanese,
  Chinese less than 5%

Guam:
  Chamorro 47%, Filipino 25%, white 10%, Chinese, Japanese,
  Korean, and other 18%

Guatemala:
  Mestizo (mixed Amerindian-Spanish or assimilated
  Amerindian - in local Spanish called Ladino), approximately 55%,
  Amerindian or predominantly Amerindian, approximately 43%, whites
  and others 2%

Guernsey:
  UK and Norman-French descent

Guinea:
  Peuhl 40%, Malinke 30%, Soussou 20%, smaller ethnic groups
  10%

Guinea-Bissau:
  African 99% (Balanta 30%, Fula 20%, Manjaca 14%,
  Mandinga 13%, Papel 7%), European and mulatto less than 1%

Guyana:
  East Indian 49%, black 32%, mixed 12%, Amerindian 6%, white
  and Chinese 1%

Haiti:
  black 95%, mulatto and white 5%

Holy See (Vatican City):
  Italians, Swiss, other

Honduras:
  mestizo (mixed Amerindian and European) 90%, Amerindian
  7%, black 2%, white 1%

Hong Kong:
  Chinese 95%, other 5%

Hungary:
  Hungarian 89.9%, Roma 4%, German 2.6%, Serb 2%, Slovak
  0.8%, Romanian 0.7%

Iceland:
  homogeneous mixture of descendants of Norse and Celts

India:
  Indo-Aryan 72%, Dravidian 25%, Mongoloid and other 3% (2000)

Indonesia:
  Javanese 45%, Sundanese 14%, Madurese 7.5%, coastal
  Malays 7.5%, other 26%

Iran:
  Persian 51%, Azeri 24%, Gilaki and Mazandarani 8%, Kurd 7%,
  Arab 3%, Lur 2%, Baloch 2%, Turkmen 2%, other 1%

Iraq:
  Arab 75%-80%, Kurdish 15%-20%, Turkoman, Assyrian or other 5%

Ireland:
  Celtic, English

Israel:
  Jewish 80.1% (Europe/America-born 32.1%, Israel-born 20.8%,
  Africa-born 14.6%, Asia-born 12.6%), non-Jewish 19.9% (mostly Arab)
  (1996 est.)

Italy:
  Italian (includes small clusters of German-, French-, and
  Slovene-Italians in the north and Albanian-Italians and
  Greek-Italians in the south)

Jamaica:
  black 90.9%, East Indian 1.3%, white 0.2%, Chinese 0.2%,
  mixed 7.3%, other 0.1%

Japan:
  Japanese 99.4%, Korean 0.6% (1999)

Jersey:
  UK and Norman-French descent

Jordan:
  Arab 98%, Circassian 1%, Armenian 1%

Kazakhstan:
  Kazakh (Qazaq) 53.4%, Russian 30%, Ukrainian 3.7%, Uzbek
  2.5%, German 2.4%, Uighur 1.4%, other 6.6% (1999 census)

Kenya:
  Kikuyu 22%, Luhya 14%, Luo 13%, Kalenjin 12%, Kamba 11%,
  Kisii 6%, Meru 6%, other African 15%, non-African (Asian, European,
  and Arab) 1%

Kiribati:
  predominantly Micronesian with some Polynesian

Korea, North:
  racially homogeneous; there is a small Chinese
  community and a few ethnic Japanese

Korea, South:
  homogeneous (except for about 20,000 Chinese)

Kuwait:
  Kuwaiti 45%, other Arab 35%, South Asian 9%, Iranian 4%,
  other 7%

Kyrgyzstan:
  Kirghiz 52.4%, Russian 18%, Uzbek 12.9%, Ukrainian 2.5%,
  German 2.4%, other 11.8%

Laos:
  Lao Loum (lowland) 68%, Lao Theung (upland) 22%, Lao Soung
  (highland) including the Hmong ("Meo") and the Yao (Mien) 9%, ethnic
  Vietnamese/Chinese 1%

Latvia:
  Latvian 56.5%, Russian 30.4%, Byelorussian 4.3%, Ukrainian
  2.8%, Polish 2.6%, other 3.4%

Lebanon:
  Arab 95%, Armenian 4%, other 1%

Lesotho:
  Sotho 99.7%, Europeans, Asians, and other 0.3%,

Liberia:
  indigenous African tribes 95% (including Kpelle, Bassa,
  Gio, Kru, Grebo, Mano, Krahn, Gola, Gbandi, Loma, Kissi, Vai, and
  Bella), Americo-Liberians 2.5% (descendants of immigrants from the
  US who had been slaves), Congo People 2.5% (descendants of
  immigrants from the Caribbean who had been slaves)

Libya:
  Berber and Arab 97%, Greeks, Maltese, Italians, Egyptians,
  Pakistanis, Turks, Indians, Tunisians

Liechtenstein:
  Alemannic 87.5%, Italian, Turkish, and other 12.5%

Lithuania:
  Lithuanian 80.6%, Russian 8.7%, Polish 7%, Byelorussian
  1.6%, other 2.1%

Luxembourg:
  Celtic base (with French and German blend), Portuguese,
  Italian, Slavs (from Montenegro, Albania, and Kososvo) and European
  (guest and resident workers)

Macau:
  Chinese 95%, Macanese (mixed Portuguese and Asian ancestry),
  Portuguese, other

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  Macedonian 66.6%,
  Albanian 22.7%, Turkish 4%, Roma 2.2%, Serb 2.1%, other 2.4% (1994)

Madagascar:
  Malayo-Indonesian (Merina and related Betsileo), Cotiers
  (mixed African, Malayo-Indonesian, and Arab ancestry -
  Betsimisaraka, Tsimihety, Antaisaka, Sakalava), French, Indian,
  Creole, Comoran

Malawi:
  Chewa, Nyanja, Tumbuko, Yao, Lomwe, Sena, Tonga, Ngoni,
  Ngonde, Asian, European

Malaysia:
  Malay and other indigenous 58%, Chinese 27%, Indian 8%,
  others 7% (2000)

Maldives:
  South Indians, Sinhalese, Arabs

Mali:
  Mande 50% (Bambara, Malinke, Soninke), Peul 17%, Voltaic 12%,
  Songhai 6%, Tuareg and Moor 10%, other 5%

Malta:
  Maltese (descendants of ancient Carthaginians and
  Phoenicians, with strong elements of Italian and other Mediterranean
  stock)

Man, Isle of:
  Manx (Norse-Celtic descent), Briton

Marshall Islands:
  Micronesian

Martinique:
  African and African-white-Indian mixture 90%, white 5%,
  East Indian, Chinese less than 5%

Mauritania:
  mixed Maur/black 40%, Maur 30%, black 30%

Mauritius:
  Indo-Mauritian 68%, Creole 27%, Sino-Mauritian 3%,
  Franco-Mauritian 2%

Mayotte:
  NA

Mexico:
  mestizo (Amerindian-Spanish) 60%, Amerindian or
  predominantly Amerindian 30%, white 9%, other 1%

Micronesia, Federated States of:
  nine ethnic Micronesian and
  Polynesian groups

Moldova:
  Moldovan/Romanian 64.5%, Ukrainian 13.8%, Russian 13%,
  Gagauz 3.5%, Jewish 1.5%, Bulgarian 2%, other 1.7% (1989 est.)

  note:  internal disputes with ethnic Slavs in the Transnistrian
  region

Monaco:
  French 47%, Monegasque 16%, Italian 16%, other 21%

Mongolia:
  Mongol (predominantly Khalkha) 85%, Turkic (of which
  Kazakh is the largest group) 7%, Tungusic 4.6%, other (including
  Chinese and Russian) 3.4% (1998)

Montserrat:
  black, white

Morocco:
  Arab-Berber 99.1%, other 0.7%, Jewish 0.2%

Mozambique:
  indigenous tribal groups 99.66% (Shangaan, Chokwe,
  Manyika, Sena, Makua, and others), Europeans 0.06%, Euro-Africans
  0.2%, Indians 0.08%

Namibia:
  black 87.5%, white 6%, mixed 6.5%

  note:  about 50% of the population belong to the Ovambo tribe and 9%
  to the Kavangos tribe; other ethnic groups are: Herero 7%, Damara
  7%, Nama 5%, Caprivian 4%, Bushmen 3%, Baster 2%, Tswana 0.5%

Nauru:
  Nauruan 58%, other Pacific Islander 26%, Chinese 8%, European
  8%

Nepal:
  Brahman, Chetri, Newar, Gurung, Magar, Tamang, Rai, Limbu,
  Sherpa, Tharu, and others (1995)

Netherlands:
  Dutch 91%, Moroccans, Turks, and other 9% (1999 est.)

Netherlands Antilles:
  mixed black 85%, Carib Amerindian, white, East
  Asian

New Caledonia:
  Melanesian 42.5%, European 37.1%, Wallisian 8.4%,
  Polynesian 3.8%, Indonesian 3.6%, Vietnamese 1.6%, other 3%

New Zealand:
  New Zealand European 74.5%, Maori 9.7%, other European
  4.6%, Pacific Islander 3.8%, Asian and others 7.4%

Nicaragua:
  mestizo (mixed Amerindian and white) 69%, white 17%,
  black 9%, Amerindian 5%

Niger:
  Hausa 56%, Djerma 22%, Fula 8.5%, Tuareg 8%, Beri Beri
  (Kanouri) 4.3%, Arab, Toubou, and Gourmantche 1.2%, about 1,200
  French expatriates

Nigeria:
  Nigeria, which is Africa's most populous country, is
  composed of more than 250 ethnic groups; the following are the most
  populous and politically influential: Hausa and Fulani 29%, Yoruba
  21%, Igbo (Ibo) 18%, Ijaw 10%, Kanuri 4%, Ibibio 3.5%, Tiv 2.5%

Niue:
  Polynesian (with some 200 Europeans, Samoans, and Tongans)

Norfolk Island:
  descendants of the Bounty mutineers, Australian, New
  Zealander, Polynesians

Northern Mariana Islands:
  Chamorro, Carolinians and other
  Micronesians, Caucasian, Japanese, Chinese, Korean

Norway:
  Norwegian (Nordic, Alpine, Baltic), Sami 20,000

Oman:
  Arab, Baluchi, South Asian (Indian, Pakistani, Sri Lankan,
  Bangladeshi), African

Pakistan:
  Punjabi, Sindhi, Pashtun (Pathan), Baloch, Muhajir
  (immigrants from India at the time of partition and their
  descendants)

Palau:
  Palauan (Micronesian with Malayan and Melanesian admixtures)
  70%, Asian (mainly Filipinos, followed by Chinese, Taiwanese, and
  Vietnamese) 28%, white 2% (2000 est.)

Panama:
  mestizo (mixed Amerindian and white) 70%, Amerindian and
  mixed (West Indian) 14%, white 10%, Amerindian 6%

Papua New Guinea:
  Melanesian, Papuan, Negrito, Micronesian,
  Polynesian

Paraguay:
  mestizo (mixed Spanish and Amerindian) 95%

Peru:
  Amerindian 45%, mestizo (mixed Amerindian and white) 37%,
  white 15%, black, Japanese, Chinese, and other 3%

Philippines:
  Christian Malay 91.5%, Muslim Malay 4%, Chinese 1.5%,
  other 3%

Pitcairn Islands:
  descendants of the Bounty mutineers and their
  Tahitian wives

Poland:
  Polish 97.6%, German 1.3%, Ukrainian 0.6%, Byelorussian 0.5%
  (1990 est.)

Portugal:
  homogeneous Mediterranean stock; citizens of black African
  descent who immigrated to mainland during decolonization number less
  than 100,000

Puerto Rico:
  white (mostly Spanish origin) 80.5%, black 8%,
  Amerindian 0.4%, Asian 0.2%, mixed and other 10.9%

Qatar:
  Arab 40%, Pakistani 18%, Indian 18%, Iranian 10%, other 14%

Reunion:
  French, African, Malagasy, Chinese, Pakistani, Indian

Romania:
  Romanian 89.5%, Hungarian 7.1%, Roma 1.8%, German 0.5%,
  Ukrainian 0.3%, other 0.8% (1992)

Russia:
  Russian 81.5%, Tatar 3.8%, Ukrainian 3%, Chuvash 1.2%,
  Bashkir 0.9%, Byelorussian 0.8%, Moldavian 0.7%, other 8.1%

Rwanda:
  Hutu 84%, Tutsi 15%, Twa (Pygmoid) 1%

Saint Helena:
  African descent 50%, white 25%, Chinese 25%

Saint Kitts and Nevis:
  predominantly black some British, Portuguese,
  and Lebanese

Saint Lucia:
  black 90%, mixed 6%, East Indian 3%, white 1%

Saint Pierre and Miquelon:
  Basques and Bretons (French fishermen)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:
  black 66%, mixed 19%, East Indian
  6%, Carib Amerindian 2%

Samoa:
  Samoan 92.6%, Euronesians 7% (persons of European and
  Polynesian blood), Europeans 0.4%

San Marino:
  Sammarinese, Italian

Sao Tome and Principe:
  mestico, angolares (descendants of Angolan
  slaves), forros (descendants of freed slaves), servicais (contract
  laborers from Angola, Mozambique, and Cape Verde), tongas (children
  of servicais born on the islands), Europeans (primarily Portuguese)

Saudi Arabia:
  Arab 90%, Afro-Asian 10%

Senegal:
  Wolof 43.3%, Pular 23.8%, Serer 14.7%, Jola 3.7%, Mandinka
  3%, Soninke 1.1%, European and Lebanese 1%, other 9.4%

Seychelles:
  Seychellois (mixture of Asians, Africans, Europeans)

Sierra Leone:
  20 native African tribes 90% (Temne 30%, Mende 30%,
  other 30%), Creole 10% (descendants of freed Jamaican slaves who
  were settled in the Freetown area in the late-18th century),
  refugees from Liberia's recent civil war, small numbers of
  Europeans, Lebanese, Pakistanis, and Indians

Singapore:
  Chinese 76.7%, Malay 14%, Indian 7.9%, other 1.4%

Slovakia:
  Slovak 85.7%, Hungarian 10.6%, Roma 1.6% (the 1992 census
  figures underreport the Gypsy/Romany community, which is about
  500,000), Czech, Moravian, Silesian 1.1%, Ruthenian and Ukrainian
  0.6%, German 0.1%, Polish 0.1%, other 0.2% (1996)

Slovenia:
  Slovene 88%, Croat 3%, Serb 2%, Bosniak 1%, Yugoslav 0.6%,
  Hungarian 0.4%, other 5% (1991)

Solomon Islands:
  Melanesian 93%, Polynesian 4%, Micronesian 1.5%,
  European 0.8%, Chinese 0.3%, other 0.4%

Somalia:
  Somali 85%, Bantu, Arabs 30,000

South Africa:
  black 75.2%, white 13.6%, Colored 8.6%, Indian 2.6%

Spain:
  composite of Mediterranean and Nordic types

Sri Lanka:
  Sinhalese 74%, Tamil 18%, Moor 7%, Burgher, Malay, and
  Vedda 1%

Sudan:
  black 52%, Arab 39%, Beja 6%, foreigners 2%, other 1%

Suriname:
  Hindustani (also known locally as "East Indians"; their
  ancestors emigrated from northern India in the latter part of the
  19th century) 37%, Creole (mixed white and black) 31%, Javanese 15%,
  "Maroons" (their African ancestors were brought to the country in
  the 17th and 18th centuries as slaves and escaped to the interior)
  10%, Amerindian 2%, Chinese 2%, white 1%, other 2%

Svalbard:
  Norwegian 55.4%, Russian and Ukrainian 44.3%, other 0.3%
  (1998)

Swaziland:
  African 97%, European 3%

Sweden:
  indigenous population: Swedes and Finnish and Sami
  minorities; foreign-born or first-generation immigrants: Finns,
  Yugoslavs, Danes, Norwegians, Greeks, Turks

Switzerland:
  German 65%, French 18%, Italian 10%, Romansch 1%, other
  6%

Syria:
  Arab 90.3%, Kurds, Armenians, and other 9.7%

Tajikistan:
  Tajik 64.9%, Uzbek 25%, Russian 3.5% (declining because
  of emigration), other 6.6%

Tanzania:
  mainland - native African 99% (of which 95% are Bantu
  consisting of more than 130 tribes), other 1% (consisting of Asian,
  European, and Arab); Zanzibar - Arab, native African, mixed Arab and
  native African

Thailand:
  Thai 75%, Chinese 14%, other 11%

Togo:
  native African (37 tribes; largest and most important are Ewe,
  Mina, and Kabre) 99%, European and Syrian-Lebanese less than 1%

Tokelau:
  Polynesian

Tonga:
  Polynesian, Europeans about 300

Trinidad and Tobago:
  black 39.5%, East Indian (a local term -
  primarily immigrants from northern India) 40.3%, mixed 18.4%, white
  0.6%, Chinese and other 1.2%

Tunisia:
  Arab 98%, European 1%, Jewish and other 1%

Turkey:
  Turkish 80%, Kurdish 20%

Turkmenistan:
  Turkmen 77%, Uzbek 9.2%, Russian 6.7%, Kazakh 2%,
  other 5.1% (1995)

Turks and Caicos Islands:
  black

Tuvalu:
  Polynesian 96%

Uganda:
  Baganda 17%, Karamojong 12%, Basogo 8%, Iteso 8%, Langi 6%,
  Rwanda 6%, Bagisu 5%, Acholi 4%, Lugbara 4%, Bunyoro 3%, Batoro 3%,
  non-African (European, Asian, Arab) 1%, other 23%

Ukraine:
  Ukrainian 73%, Russian 22%, Jewish 1%, other 4%

United Arab Emirates:
  Emirati 19%, other Arab and Iranian 23%, South
  Asian 50%, other expatriates (includes Westerners and East Asians)
  8% (1982)

  note:  less than 20% are UAE citizens (1982)

United Kingdom:
  English 81.5%, Scottish 9.6%, Irish 2.4%, Welsh
  1.9%, Ulster 1.8%, West Indian, Indian, Pakistani, and other 2.8%

United States:
  white 83.5%, black 12.4%, Asian 3.3%, Amerindian 0.8%
  (1992)

  note:  a separate listing for Hispanic is not included because the
  US Census Bureau considers Hispanic to mean a person of Latin
  American descent (especially of Cuban, Mexican, or Puerto Rican
  origin) living in the US who may be of any race or ethnic group
  (white, black, Asian, etc.)

Uruguay:
  white 88%, mestizo 8%, black 4%, Amerindian, practically
  nonexistent

Uzbekistan:
  Uzbek 80%, Russian 5.5%, Tajik 5%, Kazakh 3%, Karakalpak
  2.5%, Tatar 1.5%, other 2.5% (1996 est.)

Vanuatu:
  indigenous Melanesian 94%, French 4%, Vietnamese, Chinese,
  Pacific Islanders

Venezuela:
  Spanish, Italian, Portuguese, Arab, German, African,
  indigenous people

Vietnam:
  Vietnamese 85%-90%, Chinese, Hmong, Thai, Khmer, Cham,
  mountain groups

Virgin Islands:
  black 80%, white 15%, other 5%

  note:  West Indian (45% born in the Virgin Islands and 29% born
  elsewhere in the West Indies) 74%, US mainland 13%, Puerto Rican 5%,
  other 8%

Wallis and Futuna:
  Polynesian

West Bank:
  Palestinian Arab and other 83%, Jewish 17%

Western Sahara:
  Arab, Berber

Yemen:
  predominantly Arab; but also Afro-Arab, South Asians,
  Europeans

Yugoslavia:
  Serb 62.6%, Albanian 16.5%, Montenegrin 5%, Hungarian
  3.3%, other 12.6% (1991)

Zambia:
  African 98.7%, European 1.1%, other 0.2%

Zimbabwe:
  African 98% (Shona 71%, Ndebele 16%, other 11%), mixed and
  Asian 1%, white less than 1%

Taiwan:
  Taiwanese (including Hakka) 84%, mainland Chinese 14%,
  aborigine 2%

======================================================================

@Exchange rates



Afghanistan:
  afghanis per US dollar - 4,700 (January 2000), 4,750
  (February 1999), 17,000 (December 1996), 7,000 (January 1995), 1,900
  (January 1994), 1,019 (March 1993), 850 (1991); note - these rates
  reflect the free market exchange rates rather than the official
  exchange rate, which was fixed at 50.600 afghanis to the dollar
  until 1996, when it rose to 2,262.65 per dollar, and finally became
  fixed again at 3,000.00 per dollar in April 1996

Albania:
  leke per US dollar - 146.08 (December 2000),143.71 (2000)
  137.69 (1999), 150.63 (1998), 148.93 (1997), 104.50 (1996); note -
  leke is the plural of lek

Algeria:
  Algerian dinars per US dollar - 74,813 (January 2001),
  75.260 (2000), 66.574 (1999), 58.739 (1998), 57.707 (1997), 54.749
  (1996)

American Samoa:
  the US dollar is used

Andorra:
  euros per US dollar - 1.0659 (January 2001), 1.0854 (2000),
  0.9386 (1999); French francs per US dollar - 5.8995 (1998), 5.8367
  (1997), 5.1155 (1996); Spanish pesetas per US dollar - 149.40
  (1998), 146.41 (1997), 126.66 (1996)

Angola:
  kwanza per US dollar - 17,910,800 (January 2001), 10,041,000
  (2000), 2,790,706 (1999), 392,824 (1998), 229,040 (1997), 128,029
  (1996); note - in December 1999 the kwanza was revalued with six
  zeroes dropped off the old value

Anguilla:
  East Caribbean dollars per US dollar - 2.7000 (fixed rate
  since 1976)

Antigua and Barbuda:
  East Caribbean dollars per US dollar - 2.7000
  (fixed rate since 1976)

Argentina:
  Argentine pesos per US dollar - 1.000 (fixed rate pegged
  to the US dollar)

Armenia:
  drams per US dollar - 554.29 (1 February 2001), 539.53
  (2000), 535.06 (1999), 504.92 (1998), 490.85 (1997), 414.04 (1996)

Aruba:
  Aruban guilders/florins per US dollar - 1.7900 (fixed rate
  since 1986)

Australia:
  Australian dollars per US dollar - 1.7995 (January 2001),
  1.7173 (2000), 1.5497 (1999), 1.5888 (1998), 1.3439 (1997), 1.2773
  (1996)

Austria:
  euros per US dollar - 1.0659 (January 2001), 1.0854 (2000),
  0.9386 (1999); Austrian schillings per US dollar - 11.86 (January
  1999), 12.91 (1999), 12.379 (1998), 12.204 (1997), 10.587 (1996)

Azerbaijan:
  Azerbaijani manats per US dollar - 4,579 (1 February
  2001), 4,342 (October 1999), 4,373 (1999), 3,869 (1998), 3,985.38
  (1997), 4,301.26 (1996)

Bahamas, The:
  Bahamian dollars per US dollar - 1.000 (fixed rate
  pegged to the dollar)

Bahrain:
  Bahraini dinars per US dollar - 0.3760 (fixed rate pegged
  to the US dollar)

Bangladesh:
  taka per US dollar - 54.000 (January 2001), 52.142
  (2000), 49.085 (1999), 46.906 (1998), 43.892 (1997), 41.794 (1996)

Barbados:
  Barbadian dollars per US dollar - 2.0000 (fixed rate
  pegged to the US dollar)

Belarus:
  Belarusian rubles per US dollar - 1,180 (yearend 2000),
  730,000 (15 December 1999), 139,000 (25 January 1999), 46,080
  (second quarter 1998), 25,964 (1997), 15,500 (yearend 1996); note -
  on 1 January 2000, the national currency was redenominated at one
  new ruble to 2,000 old rubles

Belgium:
  euros per US dollar - 1.0659 (January 2001), 1.0854 (2000),
  0.9386 (1999); Belgian francs per US dollar - 34.77 (January 1999),
  36.229 (1998), 35.774 (1997), 30.962 (1996)

Belize:
  Belizean dollars per US dollar - 2.0000 (fixed rate pegged
  to the US dollar)

Benin:
  Communaute Financiere Africaine francs (XOF) per US dollar -
  699.21 (January 2001), 711.98 (2000), 615.70 (1999), 589.95 (1998),
  583.67 (1997), 511.55 (1996); note - from 1 January 1999, the XOF is
  pegged to the euro at a rate of 655.957 XOF per euro

Bermuda:
  Bermudian dollar per US dollar - 1.0000 (fixed rate pegged
  to the US dollar)

Bhutan:
  ngultrum per US dollar - 46.540 (January 2001), 44.942
  (2000), 43.055 (1999), 41.259 (1998), 36.313 (1997), 35.433 (1996);
  note - the Bhutanese ngultrum is at par with the Indian rupee which
  is also legal tender

Bolivia:
  bolivianos per US dollar - 6.4071 (January 2001), 6.1835
  (2000), 5.8124 (1999), 5.5101 (1998), 5.2543 (1997), 5.0746 (1996)

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  marka per US dollar - 2.086 (January 2001),
  2.124 (2000), 1.837 (1999), 1.760 (1998), 1.734 (1997), 0.015 (1996)

Botswana:
  pulas per US dollar - 5.4585 (January 2001), 5.1018
  (2000), 4.6244 (1999), 4.2259 (1998), 3.6508 (1997), 3.3242 (1996)

Brazil:
  reals per US dollar - 1.954 (January 2001), 1.830 (2000),
  1.815 (1999), 1.161 (1998), 1.078 (1997), 1.005 (1996)

  note:  from October 1994 through 14 January 1999, the official rate
  was determined by a managed float; since 15 January 1999, the
  official rate floats independently with respect to the US dollar

British Virgin Islands:
  the US dollar is used

Brunei:
  Bruneian dollars per US dollar - 1.7365 (January 2001),
  1.7240 (2000), 1.6950 (1999), 1.6736 (1998), 1.4848 (1997), 1.4100
  (1996); note - the Bruneian dollar is at par with the Singapore
  dollar

Bulgaria:
  leva per US dollar - 2.0848 (January 2001), 2.1233 (2000),
  1.8364 (1999), 1,760.36 (1998), 1,681.88 (1997), 177.89 (1996)

  note:  on 5 July 1999, the lev was redenominated; the post-5 July
  1999 lev is equal to 1,000 of the pre-5 July 1999 lev

Burkina Faso:
  Communaute Financiere Africaine francs (XOF) per US
  dollar - 699.21 (January 2001), 711.98 (2000), 615.70 (1999), 589.95
  (1998), 583.67 (1997), 511.55 (1996); note - from 1 January 1999,
  the XOF is pegged to the euro at a rate of 655.957 XOF per euro

Burma:
  kyats per US dollar - official rate - 6.5972 (January 2001),
  6.5167 (2000), 6.2858 (1999), 6.3432 (1998), 6.2418 (1997), 5.9176
  (1996); kyats per US dollar - black market exchange rate - 435
  (yearend 2000)

Burundi:
  Burundi francs per US dollar - 782.36 (January 2001),
  720.67 (2000), 563.56 (1999), 477.77 (1998), 352.35 (1997), 302.75
  (1996)

Cambodia:
  riels per US dollar - 3,909.0 (January 2001), 3,840.8
  (2000), 3,807.8 (1999), 3,744.4 (1998), 2,946.3 (1997), 2,624.1
  (1996)

Cameroon:
  Communaute Financiere Africaine francs (XAF) per US dollar
  - 699.21 (January 2001), 711.98 (2000), 615.70 (1999), 589.95
  (1998), 583.67 (1997), 511.55 (1996); note - from 1 January 1999,
  the XAF is pegged to the euro at a rate of 655.957 XAF per euro

Canada:
  Canadian dollars per US dollar - 1.5032 (January 2001),
  1.4851 (2000), 1.4857 (1999), 1.4835 (1998), 1.3846 (1997), 1.3635
  (1996)

Cape Verde:
  Cape Verdean escudos per US dollar - 123.080 (December
  2000), 115.877 (2000), 102.700 (1999), 98.158 (1998), 93.177 (1997),
  82.591 (1996)

Cayman Islands:
  Caymanian dollars per US dollar - 0.83 (3 November
  1995), 0.85 (22 November 1993)

Central African Republic:
  Communaute Financiere Africaine francs
  (XAF) per US dollar - 699.21 (January 2001), 711.98 (2000), 615.70
  (1999), 589.95 (1998), 583.67 (1997), 511.55 (1996); note - from 1
  January 1999, the XAF is pegged to the euro at a rate of 655.957 XAF
  per euro

Chad:
  Communaute Financiere Africaine francs (XAF) per US dollar -
  699.21 (January 2001), 711.98 (2000), 615.70 (1999), 589.95 (1998),
  583.67 (1997), 511.55 (1996); note - from 1 January 1999, the XAF is
  pegged to the euro at a rate of 655.957 XAF per euro

Chile:
  Chilean pesos per US dollar - 571.12 (January 2001), 535.47
  (2000), 508.78 (1999), 460.29 (1998), 419.30 (1997), 412.27 (1996)

China:
  yuan per US dollar - 8.2776 (January 2001), 8.2785 (2000),
  8.2783 (1999), 8.2790 (1998), 8.2898 (1997), 8.3142 (1996)

  note:  beginning 1 January 1994, the People's Bank of China quotes
  the midpoint rate against the US dollar based on the previous day's
  prevailing rate in the interbank foreign exchange market

Christmas Island:
  Australian dollars per US dollar - 1.7995 (January
  2001), 1.7173 (2000), 1.5497 (1999), 1.5888 (1998), 1.3439 (1997),
  1.2773 (1996)

Cocos (Keeling) Islands:
  Australian dollars per US dollar - 1.7995
  (January 2001), 1.7173 (2000), 1.5497 (1999), 1.5888 (1998), 1.3439
  (1997), 1.2773 (1996)

Colombia:
  Colombian pesos per US dollar - 2,241.43 (January 2001),
  2087.90 (2000), 1,756.23 (1999), 1,426.04 (1998), 1,140.96 (1997),
  1,036.69 (1996)

Comoros:
  Comoran francs per US dollar - 524.41 (January 2001),
  533.98 (2000), 461.77 (1999), 442.46 (1998), 437.75 (1997), 383.66
  (1996)

  note:  prior to January 1999, the official rate was pegged to the
  French franc at 75 Comoran francs per French franc; since 1 January
  1999, the Comoran franc is pegged to the euro at a rate of 491.9677
  Comoran francs per euro

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  Congolese francs per US dollar -
  50 (January 2001), 4.5 (January 2000), 4.02 (1999), 1.61 (1998),
  1.31 (1997), 0.50 (1996)

  note:  on 30 June 1998 the Congolese franc was introduced, replacing
  the new zaire

Congo, Republic of the:
  Communaute Financiere Africaine francs (XAF)
  per US dollar - 699.21 (January 2001), 711.98 (2000), 615.70 (1999),
  589.95 (1998), 583.67 (1997), 511.55 (1996); note - from 1 January
  1999, the XAF is pegged to the euro at a rate of 655.957 XAF per euro

Cook Islands:
  New Zealand dollars per US dollar - 2.2502 (January
  2001), 2.1863 (2000), 1.8886 (1999), 1.8632 (1998), 1.5083 (1997),
  1.4543 (1996)

Costa Rica:
  Costa Rican colones per US dollar - 318.95 (2001),
  308.19 (2000), 285.68 (1999), 257.23 (1998), 232.60 (1997), 207.69
  (1996)

Cote d'Ivoire:
  Communaute Financiere Africaine francs (XOF) per US
  dollar - 699.21 (January 2001), 711.98 (2000), 615.70 (1999), 589.95
  (1998), 583.67 (1997), 511.55 (1996); note - from 1 January 1999,
  the XOF is pegged to the euro at a rate of 655.957 XOF per euro

Croatia:
  kuna per US dollar - 8.089 (January 2001), 8.277 (2000),
  7.112 (1999), 6.362 (1998), 6.101 (1997), 5.434 (1996)

Cuba:
  Cuban pesos per US dollar - 1.0000 (nonconvertible, official
  rate, for international transactions, pegged to the US dollar);
  convertible peso sold for domestic use at a rate of 1.00 US dollar
  per 22 pesos by the Government of Cuba (January 2001)

Cyprus:
  Cypriot pounds per US dollar - 0.6146 (January 2001), 0.6208
  (2000), 0.5423 (1999), 0.5170 (1998), 0.5135 (1997), 0.4663 (1996);
  Turkish liras per US dollar - 677,621 (December 2000), 625,219
  (2000), 418,783 (1999), 260,724 (1998), 151,865 (1997), 81,405 (1996)

Czech Republic:
  koruny per US dollar - 37.425 (January 2001), 38.598
  (2000), 34.569 (1999), 32.281 (1998), 31.698 (1997), 27.145 (1996)

Denmark:
  Danish kroner per US dollar - 7.951 (January 2001), 8.083
  (2000), 6.976 (1999), 6.701 (1998), 6.604 (1997), 5.799 (1996); note
  - the Danes rejected the Euro in a 28 September 2000 referendum

Djibouti:
  Djiboutian francs per US dollar - 177.721 (fixed rate
  since 1973)

Dominica:
  East Caribbean dollars per US dollar - 2.7000 (fixed rate
  since 1976)

Dominican Republic:
  Dominican pesos per US dollar - 16.888 (January
  2001), 16.415 (2000), 16.033 (1999), 15.267 (1998), 14.265 (1997),
  13.775 (1996)

Ecuador:
  sucres per US dollar - 25,000 (January 2001), 24,988.4
  (2000), 11,786.8 (1999), 5,446.6 (1998), 3,988.3 (1997), 3,189.5
  (1996)

  note:  on 7 January 2000, the government passed a decree
  "dollarizing" the economy; on 13 March 2000, the National Congress
  approved a new exchange system whereby the US dollar is adopted as
  the main legal tender in Ecuador for all purposes; on 20 March 2000,
  the Central Bank of Ecuador started to exchange sucres for US
  dollars at a fixed rate of 25,000 sucres per US dollar; since 30
  April 2000, all transactions are denominated in US dollars

Egypt:
  Egyptian pounds per US dollar - market rate - 3.8400 (January
  2001), 3.6900 (2000), 3.4050 (1999), 3.3880 (1998), 3.3880 (1997),
  3.3880 (1996)

El Salvador:
  Salvadoran colones per US dollar - 8.755 (fixed rate
  since 1993)

Equatorial Guinea:
  Communaute Financiere Africaine francs (XAF) per
  US dollar - 699.21 (January 2001), 711.98 (2000), 615.70 (1999),
  589.95 (1998), 583.67 (1997), 511.55 (1996); note - from 1 January
  1999, the XAF is pegged to the euro at a rate of 655.957 XAF per euro

Eritrea:
  nakfa per US dollar = 9.5 (January 2000), 7.6 (January
  1999), 7.2 (March 1998 est.)

Estonia:
  krooni per US dollar - 16.663 (January 2001), 16.969
  (2000), 14.678 (1999), 14.075 (1998), 13.882 (1997), 12.034 (1996);
  note - krooni are tied to the German deutsche mark at a fixed rate
  of 8 to 1

Ethiopia:
  birr per US dollar (end of period) - 8.3140 (December
  2000), 8.3140 (2000), 8.1340 (1999), 7.5030 (1998), 6.8640 (1997),
  6.4260 (1996)

  note:  since May 1993, the birr market rate has been determined in
  an interbank market supported by weekly wholesale auction

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas):
  Falkland pounds per US dollar -
  0.6764 (January 2001), 0.6596 (2000), 0.6180 (1999), 0.6037 (1998),
  0.6106 (1997), 0.6403 (1996); note - the Falkland pound is at par
  with the British pound

Faroe Islands:
  Danish kroner per US dollar - 7.951 (January 2001),
  8.093 (2000), 6.976 (1999), 6.701 (1998), 6.604 (1997), 5.799 (1966)

Fiji:
  Fijian dollars per US dollar - 2.1814 (January 2001), 2.1286
  (2000), 1.9696 (1999), 1.9868 (1998), 1.4437 (1997), 1.4033 (1996)

Finland:
  euros per US dollar - 1.0659 (January 2001), 1.0854 (2000),
  0.9386 (1999); markkaa per US dollar - 5.3441 (1998), 5.1914 (1997),
  4.5936 (1996)

France:
  euros per US dollar - 1.0659 (January 2001), 1.0854 (2000),
  0.9386 (1999); French francs per US dollar - 5.65 (January 1999),
  5.8995 (1998), 5.8367 (1997), 5.1155 (1996)

French Guiana:
  Euros per US dollar - 1.0659 (January 2001), 1.0854
  (2000), 0.9386 (1999); French francs per US dollar - 5.8995 (1998),
  5.8367 (1997), 5.1155 (1996)

French Polynesia:
  Comptoirs Francais du Pacifique francs (XPF) per
  US dollar - 127.11 (January 2001), 129.44 (2000), 111.93 (1999),
  107.25 (1998), 106.11 (1997), 93.00 (1996); note - pegged at the
  rate of 119.25 XPF to the euro

Gabon:
  Communaute Financiere Africaine francs (XAF) per US dollar -
  699.21 (January 2001), 711.98 (2000), 615.70 (1999), 589.95 (1998),
  583.67 (1997), 511.55 (1996); note - from 1 January 1999, the XAF is
  pegged to the euro at a rate of 655.957 XAF per euro

Gambia, The:
  dalasi per US dollar - 15.000 (January 2001), 12.729
  (3d quarter 1999), 11.395 (1999), 10.643 (1998), 10.200 (1997),
  9.789 (1996)

Gaza Strip:
  new Israeli shekels per US dollar - 4.0810 (December
  2000), 4.0773 (2000), 4.1397 (1999), 3.8001 (1998), 3.4494 (1997),
  3.1917 (1996)

Georgia:
  lari per US dollar - 1.9798 (December 2000), 1.9762 (2000),
  2.0245 (1999), 1.3898 (1998), 1.2975 (1997), 1.2628 (1996)

Germany:
  euros per US dollar - 1.0659 (January 2001), 1.0854 (2000),
  0.9386 (1999); deutsche marks per US dollar - 1.69 (January 1999),
  1.7597 (1998), 1.7341 (1997), 1.5048 (1996)

Ghana:
  cedis per US dollar - 6,895.77 (January 2001), 5,321.68
  (2000), 2,647.32 (1999), 2,314.15 (1998), 2,050.17 (1997), 1,637.23
  (1996)

Gibraltar:
  Gibraltar pounds per US dollar - 0.6764 (January 2001),
  0.6596 (2000), 0.6180 (1999), 0.6037 (1998), 0.6106 (1997), 0.6403
  (1996); note - the Gibraltar pound is at par with the British pound

Greece:
  drachmae per US dollar - 380.21 (December 2000), 365.40
  (2000), 305.65 (1999), 295.53 (1998), 273.06 (1997), 240.71 (1996)

Greenland:
  Danish kroner per US dollar - 7.951 (January 2001), 8.083
  (2000), 6.976 (1999), 6.701 (1998), 6.604 (1997), 5.799 (1996)

Grenada:
  East Caribbean dollars per US dollar - 2.7000 (fixed rate
  since 1976)

Guadeloupe:
  Euros per US dollar - 1.0659 (January 2001), 1.0854
  (2000), 0.9386 (1999); French francs per US dollar - 5.8995 (1998),
  5.8367 (1997), 5.1155 (1996)

Guam:
  the US dollar is used

Guatemala:
  quetzales per US dollar - 7.8020 (January 2001), 7.7632
  (2000), 7.3856 (1999), 6.3947 (1998), 6.0653 (1997), 6.0495 (1996),
  5.8103 (1995)

Guernsey:
  Guernsey pounds per US dollar - 0.6764 (January 2001),
  0.6596 0.6180 (1999), 0.6037 (1998), 0.6106 (1997), 0.6403 (1996);
  note - the Guernsey pound is at par with the British pound

Guinea:
  Guinean francs per US dollar - 1,855.0 (October 2000),
  1,572.0 (2000), 1,387.4 (1999), 1,236.8 (1998), 1,095.3 (1997),
  1,004.0 (1996)

Guinea-Bissau:
  Communaute Financiere Africaine francs (XOF) per US
  dollar - 699.21 (January 2001), 711.98 (2000), 615.70 (1999), 589.95
  (1998), 583.67 (1997); Guinea-Bissauan pesos per US dollar - 26,373
  (1996)

  note:  as of 1 May 1997, Guinea-Bissau adopted the CFA franc as the
  national currency; since 1 January 1999, the CFA franc is pegged to
  the euro at a rate of 655.957 CFA francs per euro

Guyana:
  Guyanese dollars per US dollar - 184.1 (November 2000),
  182.2 (2000), 178.0 (1999), 150.5 (1998), 142.4 (1997), 140.4 (1996)

Haiti:
  gourdes per US dollar - 23.761 (January 2001), 22.524 (2000),
  17.965 (1999), 16.505 (1998), 17.311 (1997), 15.093 (1996)

Holy See (Vatican City):
  euros per US dollar - 1.0659 (January
  2001), 1.0854 (2000), 0.9386 (1999); Vatican lire per US dollar -
  2,099 (2000), 1817.2 (1999), 1,736.2 (1998), 1,703.1 (1997), 1,542.9
  (1996); note - the Vatican lira is at par with the Italian lira; the
  Vatican will start using euros in 2002 in conjunction with Italy at
  a fixed rate of 1,936.17 lire per euro

Honduras:
  lempiras per US dollar - 15.1407 (December 2000), 15.1407
  (2000), 14.5039 (1999), 13.8076 (1998), 13.0942 (1997), 12.8694
  (1996)

Hong Kong:
  Hong Kong dollars per US dollar - 7.7990 (January 2001),
  7.7912 (2000), 7.7575 (1999), 7.7453 (1998), 7.7421 (1997), 7.7343
  (1996); note - Hong Kong became a special administrative region of
  China on 1 July 1997; before then, the Hong Kong dollar was linked
  to the US dollar at the rate of about 7.8 Hong Kong dollars per US
  dollar

Hungary:
  forints per US dollar - 282.240 (January 2001), 282.179
  (2000), 237.146 (1999), 214.402 (1998), 186.789 (1997), 152.647
  (1996)

Iceland:
  Icelandic kronur per US dollar - 84.810 (January 2001),
  78.676 (2000), 72.335 (1999), 70.958 (1998), 70.904 (1997), 66.500
  (1996)

India:
  Indian rupees per US dollar - 46.540 (January 2001), 44.942
  (2000), 43.055 (1999), 41.259 (1998), 36.313 (1997), 35.433 (1996)

Indonesia:
  Indonesian rupiahs per US dollar - 10,000 (January 2001),
  8,421.8 (2000), 7,855.2 (1999), 10,013.6 (1998), 2,909.4 (1997),
  2,342.3 (1996)

Iran:
  Iranian rials per US dollar - 1,754.71 (January 2001),
  1,764.43 (2000), 1,725.93 (1999), 1,751.86 (1998), 1,752.92 (1997),
  1,750.76 (1996)

  note:  Iran has three officially recognized exchange rates; the
  averages for 1999 are as follows: the official floating rate of
  1,750 rials per US dollar, the "export" rate of 3,000 rials per US
  dollar, and the variable Tehran Stock Exchange rate, which averages
  7,863 rials per US dollar; the market rate averages 8,615 rials per
  US dollar

Iraq:
  Iraqi dinars per US dollar - 0.3109 (fixed official rate since
  1982); black market rate - Iraqi dinars per US dollar - 1,910
  (December 1999), 1,815 (December 1998), 1,530 (December 1997), 910
  (December 1996), 3,000 (December 1995); note - subject to wide
  fluctuations

Ireland:
  Irish pounds per US dollar - 1.0658 (January 2001), 1.0823
  (2000), 0.9374 (1999), 0.7014 (1998), 0.6588 (1997), 0.6248 (1996)

Israel:
  new Israeli shekels per US dollar - 4.0810 (December 2000),
  4.0773 (2000), 4.1397 (1999), 3.8001 (1998), 3.4494 (1997), 3.1917
  (1996)

Italy:
  euros per US dollar - 1.0659 (January 2001), 1.0854 (2000),
  0.9386 (1999); Italian lire per US dollar - 1,688.7 (January 1999),
  1,736.2 (1998), 1,703.1 (1997), 1,542.9 (1996)

Jamaica:
  Jamaican dollars per US dollar - 45.557 (January 2001),
  42.701 (2000), 39.044 (1999), 36.550 (1998), 35.404 (1997), 37.120
  (1996)

Japan:
  yen per US dollar - 117.10 (January 2001), 107.77 (2000),
  113.91 (1999), 130.91 (1998), 120.99 (1997), 108.78 (1996)

Jersey:
  Jersey pounds per US dollar - 0.6764 (January 2001), 0.6596
  (2000), 0.6180 (1999), 0.6037 (1998), 0.6106 (1997), 0.6403 (1996);
  the Jersey pound is at par with the British pound

Jordan:
  Jordanian dinars per US dollar - 0.7090 (1996-present )

  note:  since May 1989, the Jordanian dinar has been pegged to a
  group of currencies

Kazakhstan:
  tenge per US dollar - 145.09 (January 2001), 142.13
  (2000), 119.52 (1999), 78.30 (1998), 75.44 (1997), 67.30 (1996)

Kenya:
  Kenyan shillings per US dollar - 78.733 (December 2000),
  76.176 (2000), 70.326 (1999), 60.367 (1998), 58.732 (1997), 57.115
  (1996)

Kiribati:
  Australian dollars per US dollar - 1.7995 (January 2001),
  1.7173 (2000), 1.5497 (1999), 1.5888 (1998), 1.3439 (1997), 1.2773
  (1996)

Korea, North:
  official: North Korean won per US dollar - 2.15 (May
  1994), 2.13 (May 1992), 2.14 (September 1991), 2.1 (January 1990),
  2.3 (December 1989); market: North Korean won per US dollar - 200

Korea, South:
  South Korean won per US dollar - 1,271.89 (January
  2001), 1,130.96 (2000), 1,188.82 (1999), 1,401.44 (1998), 951.29
  (1997), 804.45 (1996)

Kuwait:
  Kuwaiti dinars per US dollar - 0.3057 (January 2001), 0.3067
  (2000), 0.3044 (1999), 0.3047 (1998), 0.3033 (1997), 0.2994 (1996)

Kyrgyzstan:
  soms per US dollar - 48.701 (January 2001), 47.704
  (2000), 39.008 (1999), 20.838 (1998), 17.362 (1997), 12.810 (1996)

Laos:
  kips per US dollar - 7,578.00 (December 2000), 7,102.03
  (1999), 3,298.33 (1998), 1,259.98 (1997), 921.02 (1996)

Latvia:
  lati per US dollar - 0.614 (January 2001), 0.607 (2000),
  0.585 (1999), 0.590 (1998), 0.581 (1997), 0.551 (1996)

Lebanon:
  Lebanese pounds per US dollar - 1,507.5 (January 2001),
  1,507.5 (2000), 1,507.8 (1999), 1,516.1 (1998), 1,539.5 (1997),
  1,571.4 (1996)

Lesotho:
  maloti per US dollar - 7.78307 (January 2001), 6.93983
  (2000), 6.10948 (1999), 5.52828 (1998), 4.60796 (1997), 4.29935
  (1996); note - the Lesotho loti is at par with the South African
  rand which is also legal tender; maloti is the plural form of loti

Liberia:
  Liberian dollars per US dollar - 39.8100 (December 2000),
  41.0483 (2000), 41.9025 (1999), 41.5075 (1998), 1.0000 (officially
  fixed rate 1940-97); market exchange rate: Liberian dollars per US
  dollar - 40 (December 1998), 50 (October 1995)

  note:  until December 1997, rates were based on a fixed relationship
  with the US dollar; beginning in January 1998, rates are market
  determined

Libya:
  Libyan dinars per US dollar - 0.5101 (January 2001), 0.5081
  (2000), 0.4616 (1999), 0.3785 (1998), 0.3891 (1997), 0.3651 (1996)

  note:  Libya currently has two rates for foreign trade; one for
  government operations and foreign companies and one for Libyan
  individuals (0.45 dinars per US dollar in December 1998)

Liechtenstein:
  Swiss francs per US dollar - 1.6303 (January 2001),
  1.6888 (2000), 1.5022 (1999), 1.4498 (1998), 1.4513 (1997), 1.2360
  (1996)

Lithuania:
  litai per US dollar - 4.000 (fixed rate since 1 May
  1994); note - litai is the plural of litas

Luxembourg:
  euros per US dollar - 1.0659 (January 2001), 1.0854
  (2000), 0.9386 (1999); Luxembourg francs per US dollar - 34.77
  (January 1999), 36.299 (1998), 35.774 (1997), 30.962 (1996); note -
  the Luxembourg franc is at par with the Belgian franc, which
  circulates freely in Luxembourg

Macau:
  patacas per US dollar - 8.033 (January 2001), 8.025 (2000),
  7.990 (1999), 7.978 (1998), 7.974 (1997), 7.966 (1996); note -
  linked to the Hong Kong dollar at the rate of 1.03 patacas per Hong
  Kong dollar

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  Macedonian denars per US
  dollar - 64.757 (January 2001), 65.904 (2000), 56.902 (1999), 54.462
  (1998), 50.004 (1997), 39.981 (1996)

Madagascar:
  Malagasy francs per US dollar - 6,656.3 (November 2000),
  6,283.8 (1999), 5,441.4 (1998), 5,090.9 (1997), 4,061.3 (1996)

Malawi:
  Malawian kwachas per US dollar - 80.0946 (December 2000),
  59.5438 (2000), 44.0881 (1999), 31.0727 (1998), 16.4442 (1997),
  15.3085 (1996)

Malaysia:
  ringgits per US dollar - 3.8000 (January 2001), 3.8000
  (2000), 3.8000 (1999), 3.9244 (1998), 2.8133 (1997), 2.5159 (1996)

Maldives:
  rufiyaa per US dollar - 11.770 (fixed rate since 1995)

Mali:
  Communaute Financiere Africaine francs (XOF) per US dollar -
  699.21 (January 2001), 711.98 (2000), 615.70 (1999), 589.95 (1998),
  583.67 (1997), 511.55 (1996); note - from 1 January 1999, the XOF is
  pegged to the euro at a rate of 655.957 XOF per euro

Malta:
  Maltese liri per US dollar - 0.4370 (January 2001), 0.4376
  (2000), 0.3994 (1999), 0.3885 (1998), 0.3857 (1997), 0.3604 (1996)

Man, Isle of:
  Manx pounds per US dollar - 0.6764 (January 2001),
  0.6596 (2000), 0.6180 (1999), 0.6037 (1998), 0.6106 (1997), 0.6403
  (1996); the Manx pound is at par with the British pound

Marshall Islands:
  the US dollar is used

Martinique:
  euros per US dollar - 1.0659 (January 2001), 1.0854
  (2000), 0.9386 (1999); French francs per US dollar - 5.8995 (1998),
  5.8367 (1997), 5.1155 (1996)

Mauritania:
  ouguiyas per US dollar - 250.870 (December 2000),
  238.923 (2000), 209.514 (1999), 188.476 (1998), 151.853 (1997),
  137.222 (1996)

Mauritius:
  Mauritian rupees per US dollar - 27.900 (January 2001),
  26.250 (2000), 25.186 (1999), 22.993 (1998), 21.057 (1997), 17.948
  (1996)

Mayotte:
  euros per US dollar - 1.0659 (January 2001), 1.0854 (2000),
  0.9386 (1999); French francs per US dollar - 5.8995 (1998), 5.8367
  (1997), 5.1155 (1996)

Mexico:
  Mexican pesos per US dollar - 9.7701 (January 2001), 9.4556
  (2000), 9.5604 (1999), 9.1360 (1998), 7.9185 (1997), 7.5994 (1996)

Micronesia, Federated States of:
  the US dollar is used

Moldova:
  lei per US dollar - 12.3728 (January 2001), 12.4342 (2000),
  10.5158 (1999), 5.3707 (1998), 4.6236 (1997), 4.6045 (1996); note -
  lei is the plural form of leu

Monaco:
  euros per US dollar - 1.0659 (January 2001), 1.0854 (2000),
  0.9386 (1999); French francs per US dollar - 5.8995 (1998), 5.8367
  (1997), 5.1155 (1996)

Mongolia:
  togrogs/tugriks per US dollar - 1,097.00 (December 2000),
  1,076.67 (2000), 1,072.37 (1999), 840.83 (1998), 789.99 (1997),
  548.40 (1996)

Montserrat:
  East Caribbean dollars per US dollar - 2.7000 (fixed
  rate since 1976)

Morocco:
  Moroccan dirhams per US dollar - 10.590 (January 2001),
  10.626 (2000), 9.804 (1999), 9.604 (1998), 9.527 (1997), 8.716 (1996)

Mozambique:
  meticais per US dollar - 17,331.0 (January 2001),
  5,199.8 (2000), 12,775.1 (1999), 11,874.6 (1998), 11.543.6 (1997),
  11,293.8 (1996)

Namibia:
  Namibian dollars per US dollar - 7.78307 (January 2001),
  6.93983 (2000), 6.10948 (1999), 5.52828 (1998), 4.60796 (1997),
  4.29935 (1996)

Nauru:
  Australian dollars per US dollar - 1.7995 (January 2001),
  1.7173 (2000), 1.5497 (1999), 1.5888 (1998), 1.3439 (1997), 1.2773
  (1996)

Nepal:
  Nepalese rupees per US dollar - 74.129 (January 2001), 71.104
  (2000), 68.239 (1999), 65.976 (1998), 58.010 (1997), 56.692 (1996)

Netherlands:
  euros per US dollar - 1.0659 (January 2001), 1.0854
  (2000), 0.9386 (1999); Netherlands guilders per US dollar - 1.9837
  (1998), 1.9513 (1997), 1.6859 (1996)

Netherlands Antilles:
  Netherlands Antillean guilders per US dollar -
  1.790 (fixed rate since 1989)

New Caledonia:
  Comptoirs Francais du Pacifique francs (XPF) per US
  dollar - 127.11 (January 2001), 129.44 (2000), 111.93 (1999), 107.25
  (1998), 106.11 (1997), 93.00 (1996); note - linked at the rate of
  119.25 XPF to the euro

New Zealand:
  New Zealand dollars per US dollar - 2.2502 (January
  2001), 2.1863 (2000), 1.8886 (1999), 1.8632 (1998), 1.5083 (1997),
  1.4543 (1996)

Nicaragua:
  gold cordobas per US dollar - 12.96 (November 2000),
  12.69 (2000 est.), 11.81 (1999), 10.58 (1998), 9.45 (1997), 8.44
  (1996)

Niger:
  Communaute Financiere Africaine francs (XOF) per US dollar -
  699.21 (January 2001), 711.98 (2000), 615.70 (1999), 589.95 (1998),
  583.67 (1997), 511.55 (1996); note - from 1 January 1999, the XOF is
  pegged to the euro at a rate of 655.957 XOF per euro

Nigeria:
  nairas per US dollar - 110.005 (January 2001), 101.697
  (2000), 92.338 (1999), 21.886 (1998), 21.886 (1997), 21.884 (1996)

Niue:
  New Zealand dollars per US dollar - 2.2502 (January 2001),
  2.1863 (2000), 1.8886 (1999), 1.8629 (1998), 1.5082 (1997), 1.4543
  (1996)

Norfolk Island:
  Australian dollars per US dollar - 1.7995 (January
  2001), 1.7173 (2000), 1.5497 (1999), 1.5888 (1998), 1.3439 (1997),
  1.2773 (1996)

Northern Mariana Islands:
  the US dollar is used

Norway:
  Norwegian kroner per US dollar - 8.7784 (January 2001),
  8.8018 (2000), 7.7992 (1999), 7.5451 (1998), 7.0734 (1997), 6.4498
  (1996)

Oman:
  Omani rials per US dollar - 0.3845 (fixed rate since 1986)

Pakistan:
  Pakistani rupees per US dollar - 59.152 (January 2001),
  52.814 (2000), 49.118 (1999), 44.943 (1998), 40.918 (1997), 35.909
  (1996)

Palau:
  the US dollar is used

Panama:
  balboas per US dollar - 1.000 (fixed rate)

Papua New Guinea:
  kina per US dollar - 2.81 (October 2000), 2.696
  (2000), 2.539 (1999), 2.058 (1998), 1.434 (1997), 1.318 (1996)

Paraguay:
  guarani per US dollar - 3,570.0 (January 2001), 3,486.4
  (2000), 3,119.1 (1999), 2,726.5 (1998), 2,177.9 (1997), 2,056.8
  (1996); note - since early 1998, the exchange rate has operated as a
  managed float; prior to that, the exchange rate was determined
  freely in the market

Peru:
  nuevo sol per US dollar - 3.5230 (January 2001), 3.4900
  (2000), 3.383 (1999), 2.930 (1998), 2.664 (1997), 2.453 (1996)

Philippines:
  Philippine pesos per US dollar - 50.969 (January 2001),
  44.192 (2000), 39.089 (1999), 40.893 (1998), 29.471 (1997), 26.216
  (1996)

Pitcairn Islands:
  New Zealand dollars per US dollar - 2.2502
  (January 2001), 2.1863 (2000), 1.8886 (1999), 1.8629 (1998), 1.5083
  (1997), 1.4543 (1996)

Poland:
  zlotych per US dollar - 4.3126 (December 2000), 4.3461
  (2000), 3.9671 (1999), 3.4754 (1998), 3.2793 (1997), 2.6961 (1996)

Portugal:
  euros per US dollar - 1.0659 (January 2001), 1.0854
  (2000), 0.9386 (1999); Portuguese escudos per US dollar - 180.10
  (1998), 175.31 (1997), 154.24 (1996)

Puerto Rico:
  the US dollar is used

Qatar:
  Qatari rials per US dollar - 3.6400 (fixed rate)

Reunion:
  euros per US dollar - 1.06594 (January 2001), 1.08540
  (2000), 0.9386 (1999); French francs per US dollar - 5.8995 (1998),
  5.8367 (1997), 5.1155 (1996)

Romania:
  lei per US dollar - 26,243.0 (January 2001), 21,708.7
  (2000), 15,332.8 (1999), 8,875.6 (1998), 7,167.9 (1997), 3,084.2
  (1996); note - lei is the plural form of leu

Russia:
  Russian rubles per US dollar - 28.3592 (January 2001),
  28.1292 (2000), 24.6199 (1999), 9.7051 (1998), 5,785 (1997), 5,121
  (1996)

  note:  the post-1 January 1998 ruble is equal to 1,000 of the pre-1
  January 1998 rubles

Rwanda:
  Rwandan francs per US dollar - 432.24 (January 2001), 389.70
  (2000), 333.94 (1999) 312.31 (1998), 301.53 (1997), 306.82 (1996)

Saint Helena:
  Saint Helenian pounds per US dollar - 0.6764 (January
  2001), 0.6596 (2000), 0.6180 (1999), 0.6037 (1998), 0.6047 (1997),
  0.6403 (1996); note - the Saint Helenian pound is at par with the
  British pound

Saint Kitts and Nevis:
  East Caribbean dollars per US dollar - 2.7000
  (fixed rate since 1976)

Saint Lucia:
  East Caribbean dollars per US dollar - 2.7000 (fixed
  rate since 1976)

Saint Pierre and Miquelon:
  euros per US dollar - 1.06594 (January
  2001), 1.08540 (2000), 0.93863 (1999); French francs per US dollar -
  5.8995 (1998), 5.8367 (1997), 5.1155 (1996)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:
  East Caribbean dollars per US
  dollar - 2.7000 (fixed rate since 1976)

Samoa:
  tala per US dollar - 3.3400 (January 2001), 3.2712 (2000),
  3.0120 (1999), 2.9429 (1998), 2.5562 (1997), 2.4618 (1996)

San Marino:
  euros per US dollar - 1.06594 (January 2001), 1.08540
  (2000), 0.93863 (1999); Italian lire per US dollar - 1,736.2 (1998),
  1,703.1 (1997), 1,542.9 (1996)

Sao Tome and Principe:
  dobras per US dollar - 2390.04 (December
  2000), 7,119.0 (1999), 6,883.2 (1998), 4,552.5 (1997), 2,203.2 (1996)

Saudi Arabia:
  Saudi riyals per US dollar - 3.7450 (fixed rate since
  June 1986)

Senegal:
  Communaute Financiere Africaine francs (XOF) per US dollar
  - 699.21 (January 2001), 711.98 (2000), 615.70 (1999), 589.95
  (1998), 583.67 (1997), 511.55 (1966); note - from 1 January 1999,
  the XOF is pegged to the euro at a rate of 655.957 XOF per euro

Seychelles:
  Seychelles rupees per US dollar - 6.0397 (November
  2000), 5.6009 (2000), 5,3426 (1999), 5.2622 (1998), 5.0263 (1997),
  4.9700 (1996)

Sierra Leone:
  leones per US dollar - 1,653.39 (January 2001),
  2,092.13 (2000), 1,804.20 (1999), 1,563.62 (1998), 981.48 (1997),
  920.73 (1996)

Singapore:
  Singapore dollars per US dollar - 1.7365 (January 2001),
  1.7240 (2000), 1.6950 (1999), 1.6736 (1998), 1.4848 (1997), 1.4100
  (1996)

Slovakia:
  koruny per US dollar - 48.09 (March 2001), 46.395 (2000),
  41.363 (1999), 35.233 (1998), 33.616 (1997), 30.654 (1996)

Slovenia:
  tolars per US dollar - 225.93 (January 2001), 222.66
  (2000), 181.77 (1999), 166.13 (1998), 159.69 (1997), 135.36 (1996)

Solomon Islands:
  Solomon Islands dollars per US dollar - 5.0968
  (November 2000), 5.0864 (2000), 4.8381 (1999), 4.8156 (1998), 3.7169
  (1997), 3.5664 (1996)

Somalia:
  Somali shillings per US dollar - 11,000 (November 2000),
  2,620 (January 1999), 7,500 (November 1997 est.), 7,000 (January
  1996 est.), 5,000 (1 January 1995), 2,616 (1 July 1993)

  note:  the Republic of Somaliland, a self-declared independent
  country not recognized by any foreign government, issues its own
  currency, the Somaliland shilling

South Africa:
  rand per US dollar - 7.60 (March 2001), 6.93983
  (2000), 6.10948 (1999), 5.52828 (1998), 4.60796 (1997), 4.29935
  (1996)

Spain:
  euros per US dollar - 1.0659 (January 2001), 1.0854 (2000),
  0.9386 (1999); pesetas per US dollar - 149.40 (1998), 146.41 (1997),
  126.66 (1996)

Sri Lanka:
  Sri Lankan rupees per US dollar - 83.506 (January 2001),
  77.005 (2000), 70.635 (1999), 64.450 (1998), 58.995 (1997), 55.271
  (1996)

Sudan:
  Sudanese dinars per US dollar - 257.44 (January 2001), 257.12
  (2000), 252.55 (1999), 200.80 (1998), 157.57 (1997), 125.08 (1996)

Suriname:
  Surinamese guilders per US dollar - 2,178.50 (December
  2000), 987.50 (December 1999), 401.00 (December 1998), 401.00
  (December 1997), 401.26 (December 1996)

  note:  beginning in July 1994, the central bank midpoint exchange
  rate was unified and became market determined; during 1998, the
  exchange rate splintered into four distinct rates; in January 1999
  the government floated the guilder, but subsequently fixed it when
  the black-market rate plunged; the government currently allows
  trading within a band of SRG 500 around the official rate

Svalbard:
  Norwegian kroner per US dollar - 8.7784 (January 2001),
  8.8018 (2000), 7.7992 (1999), 7.5451 (1998), 7.0734 (1997), 6.4498
  (1996)

Swaziland:
  emalangeni per US dollar - 7.7803 (January 2001), 6.9056
  (2000), 6.1087 (1999), 5.4807 (1998), 4.6032 (1997), 4.2706 (1996);
  note - the Swazi lilangeni is at par with the South African rand;
  emalangeni is the plural form of lilangeni

Sweden:
  Swedish kronor per US dollar - 9.4669 (January 2001), 9.1622
  (2000), 8.2624 (1999), 7.9499 (1998), 7.6349 (1997), 6.7060 (1996)

Switzerland:
  Swiss francs per US dollar - 1.6303 (January 2001),
  1.6888 (2000), 1.5022 (1999), 1.4498 (1998), 1.4513 (1997), 1.2360
  (1996)

Syria:
  Syrian pounds per US dollar - 46 (2000), 46 (1998), 41.9
  (January 1997)

Tajikistan:
  Tajikistani somoni per US dollar - 2.2 (January 2001),
  1550 (January 2000), 998 (January 1999), 350 (January 1997), 284
  (January 1996)

  note:  the new unit of exchange was introduced on 30 October 2000,
  with one somoni equal to 1,000 of the old Tajikistani rubles

Tanzania:
  Tanzanian shillings per US dollar - 803.34 (December
  2000), 800.41 (2000), 744.76 (1999), 664.67 (1998), 612.12 (1997),
  579.98 (1996)

Thailand:
  baht per US dollar - 43.078 (January 2001), 40.112 (2000),
  37.814 (1999), 41.359 (1998), 31.364 (1997), 25.343 (1996)

Togo:
  Communaute Financiere Africaine francs (XOF) per US dollar -
  699.21 (January 2001), 711.98 (2000), 615.70 (1999), 589.95 (1998),
  583.67 (1997), 511.55 (1996); note - from 1 January 1999, the XOF is
  pegged to the euro at a rate of 655.957 XOF per euro

Tokelau:
  New Zealand dollars per US dollar - 2.2502 (January 2001),
  2.1863 (2000), 1.8886 (1999), 1.8632 (1998), 1.5083 (1997), 1.4543
  (1996)

Tonga:
  pa'anga per US dollar - 1.9885 (January 2001), 1.7585 (2000),
  1.5991 (1999), 1.4920 (1998), 1.2635 (1997), 1.2323 (1996)

Trinidad and Tobago:
  Trinidad and Tobago dollars per US dollar -
  6.2688 (January 2001), 6.2998 (2000), 6.2989 (1999), 6.2983 (1998),
  6.2517 (1997), 6.0051 (1996)

Tunisia:
  Tunisian dinars per US dollar - 1.3753 (January 2001),
  1.4667 (November 2000), 1.1862 (1999), 1.1387 (1998), 1.1059 (1997),
  0.9734 (1996)

Turkey:
  Turkish liras per US dollar - 677,621 (December 2000),
  625,219 (2000), 418,783 (1999), 260,724 (1998), 151,865 (1997),
  81,405 (1996)

Turkmenistan:
  Turkmen manats per US dollar - 5,200 (January 2001),
  5,200 (January 2000), 5,350 (January 1999), 4,070 (January 1997),
  2,400 (January 1996)

Turks and Caicos Islands:
  the US dollar is used

Tuvalu:
  Tuvaluan dollars or Australian dollars per US dollar -
  1.7995 (January 2001), 1.7173 (2000), 1.5497 (1999), 1.5888 (1998),
  1.3439 (1997), 1.2773 (1996)

Uganda:
  Ugandan shillings per US dollar - 1,700 (February 2001),
  1,830.4 (January 2001), 1,644.5 (2000), 1,454.8 (1999), 1,240.2
  (1998), 1,083.0 (1997), 1,046.1 (1996)

Ukraine:
  hryvnia per US dollar - 5.4331 (January 2001), 5.4402
  (2000), 4.1304 (1999), 2.4495 (1998), 1.8617 (1997), 1.8295 (1996)

United Arab Emirates:
  Emirati dirhams per US dollar - central bank
  mid-point rate: 3.6725 (since 1998); 3.6711 (1997), 3.6710 (1995-96)

United Kingdom:
  British pounds per US dollar - 0.6764 (January
  2001), 0.6596 (2000), 0.6180 (1999), 0.6037 (1998), 0.6106 (1997),
  0.6403 (1996)

United States:
  British pounds per US dollar - 0.6764 (January 2001),
  0.6596 (2000), 0.6180 (1999), 0.6037 (1998), 0.6106 (1997), 0.6403
  (1996); Canadian dollars per US dollar - 1.5032 (January 2001),
  1.4851 (2000), 1.4857 (1999), 1.4835 (1998), 1.3846 (1997), 1.3635
  (1996); French francs per US dollar - 5.65 (January 1999), 5.8995
  (1998), 5.8367 (1997), 5.1155 (1996), 4.9915 (1995), 5.5520 (1994);
  Italian lire per US dollar - 1,668.7 (January 1999), 1,763.2 (1998),
  1,703.1 (1997), 1,542.9 (1996), 1,628.9 (1995), 1,612.4 (1994);
  Japanese yen per US dollar - 117.10 (January 2001), 107.77 (2000),
  113.91 (1999), 130.91 (1998), 120.99 (1997), 108.78 (1996); German
  deutsche marks per US dollar - 1.69 (January 1999), 1.9692 (1998),
  1.7341 (1997), 1.5048 (1996), 1.4331 (1995), 1.6228 (1994); euros
  per US dollar - 1.06594 (January 2001), 1.08540 (2000), 0.93863
  (1999)

  note:  financial institutions in France, Italy, and Germany and
  eight other European countries started using the euro on 1 January
  1999 with the euro replacing the local currency in consenting
  countries for all transactions in 2002

Uruguay:
  Uruguayan pesos per US dollar - 12.5610 (January 2001),
  12.0996 (2000), 11.3393 (1999), 10.4719 (1998), 9.4418 (1997),
  7.9718 (1996)

Uzbekistan:
  Uzbekistani sums per US dollar - 325.0 (January 2001),
  141.4 (January 2000), 111.9 (February 1999), 110.95 (December 1998),
  75.8 (September 1997), 41.1 (1996)

Vanuatu:
  vatu per US dollar - 143.95 (December 2000), 137.82 (2000),
  129.08 (1999), 127.52 (1998), 115.87 (1997), 111.72 (1996)

Venezuela:
  bolivares per US dollar - 699.700 (January 2001), 679.960
  (2000), 605.717 (1999), 547.556 (1998), 488.635 (1997), 417.333
  (1996)

Vietnam:
  dong per US dollar - 14,530 (January 2001), 14,020 (January
  2000), 13,900 (December 1998), 11,100 (December 1996), 11,193 (1995
  average), 11,000 (October 1994)

Virgin Islands:
  the US dollar is used

Wallis and Futuna:
  Comptoirs Francais du Pacifique francs (XPF) per
  US dollar - 1127.11 (January 2001), 129.43 (2000), 111.93 (1999),
  107.25 (1998), 106.11 (1997), 93.00 (1996); note - linked at the
  rate of 119.25 XPF to the euro

West Bank:
  new Israeli shekels per US dollar - 4.0810 (December
  2000), 4.0773 (2000), 4.1397 (1999), 3.8001 (1998), 3.4494 (1997),
  3.1917 (1996); Jordanian dinars per US dollar - fixed rate of 0.7090
  (from 1996)

Western Sahara:
  Moroccan dirhams per US dollar - 10.590 (January
  2001), 10.626 (2000), 9.804 (1999), 9.604 (1998), 9.527 (1997),
  8.716 (1996)

Yemen:
  Yemeni rials per US dollar - 164.590 (October 2000), 160.683
  (2000), 155.718 (1999), 135.882 (1998), 129.281 (1997), 94.157 (1996)

Yugoslavia:
  new Yugoslav dinars per US dollar - official rate: 10.0
  (December 1998), 5.85 (December 1997), 5.02 (September 1996), 1.5
  (early 1995); black market rate: 14.5 (December 1998), 8.9 (December
  1997), 2 to 3 (early 1995)

Zambia:
  Zambian kwacha per US dollar - 4,024.53 (January 2001),
  3,110.84 (2000), 2,388.02 (1999), 1,862.07 (1998), 1,314.50 (1997),
  1,207.90 (1996)

Zimbabwe:
  Zimbabwean dollars per US dollar - 54.9451 (January 2001),
  43.2900 (2000), 38.3142 (1999), 21.4133 (1998), 11.8906 (1997),
  9.9206 (1996)

Taiwan:
  new Taiwan dollars per US dollar - 33.082 (yearend 2000),
  31.395 (yearend 1999), 32.216 (1998), 32.052 (1997), 27.5 (1996)

======================================================================

@Executive branch



Afghanistan:
  on 27 September 1996, the ruling members of the Afghan
  Government were displaced by members of the Islamic Taliban
  movement; the Islamic State of Afghanistan has no functioning
  government at this time, and the country remains divided among
  fighting factions

  note:  the Taliban have declared themselves the legitimate
  government of Afghanistan; however, the UN still recognizes the
  government of Burhanuddin RABBANI; the Organization of the Islamic
  Conference has left the Afghan seat vacant until the question of
  legitimacy can be resolved through negotiations among the warring
  factions; the country is essentially divided along ethnic lines; the
  Taliban controls the capital of Kabul and approximately two-thirds
  of the country including the predominately ethnic Pashtun areas in
  southern Afghanistan; opposing factions have their stronghold in the
  ethnically diverse north

Albania:
  chief of state:  President of the Republic Rexhep MEIDANI
  (since 24 July 1997)

  head of government:  Prime Minister Ilir META (since 29 October 1999)

  cabinet:  Council of Ministers nominated by the prime minister and
  approved by the president

  elections:  president elected by the People's Assembly for a
  five-year term; election last held 24 July 1997 (next to be held NA
  2002); prime minister appointed by the president

  election results:  Rexhep MEIDANI elected president; People's
  Assembly vote by number - total votes 122, for 110, against 3,
  abstained 2, invalid 7

Algeria:
  chief of state:  President Abdelaziz BOUTEFLIKA (since 28
  April 1999)

  head of government:  Prime Minister Ali BENFLIS (since 26 August
  2000)

  cabinet:  Cabinet of Ministers appointed by the president

  elections:  president elected by popular vote for a five-year term;
  election last held 15 April 1999 (next to be held NA April 2004);
  prime minister appointed by the president

  election results:  Abdelaziz BOUTEFLIKA elected president; percent
  of vote - Abdelaziz BOUTEFLIKA over 70%; note - his six opposing
  candidates withdrew on the eve of the election citing electoral fraud

American Samoa:
  chief of state:  President George W. BUSH of the US
  (since 20 January 2001) and Vice President Richard B. CHENEY (since
  20 January 2001)

  head of government:  Governor Tauese P. SUNIA (since 3 January 1997)
  and Lieutenant Governor Togiola TULAFONO (since 3 January 1997)

  cabinet:  NA

  elections:  US president and vice president elected on the same
  ticket for four-year terms; governor and lieutenant governor elected
  on the same ticket by popular vote for four-year terms; election
  last held 7 November 2000 (next to be held NA November 2004)

  election results:  Tauese P. SUNIA reelected governor; percent of
  vote - Tauese P. SUNIA (Democrat) 50.7%, Lealaifuaneva Peter REID
  (independent) 47.8%

Andorra:
  chief of state:  French Coprince Jacques CHIRAC (since 17
  May 1995), represented by Frederic de SAINT-SERNIN (since NA);
  Spanish Coprince Episcopal Monseigneur Joan MARTI Alanis (since 31
  January 1971), represented by Nemesi MARQUES OSTE (since NA)

  head of government:  Executive Council President Marc FORNE Molne
  (since 21 December 1994)

  cabinet:  Executive Council or Govern designated by the Executive
  Council president

  elections:  Executive Council president elected by the General
  Council and formally appointed by the coprinces for a four-year
  term; election last held 16 February 1997 (next to be held NA 2001)

  election results:  Marc FORNE Molne elected executive council
  president; percent of General Council vote - 64%

Angola:
  chief of state:  President Jose Eduardo DOS SANTOS (since 21
  September 1979); note - the president is both chief of state and
  head of government

  head of government:  President Jose Eduardo DOS SANTOS (since 21
  September 1979); note - the president is both chief of state and
  head of government

  cabinet:  Council of Ministers appointed by the president

  elections:  President DOS SANTOS originally elected (in 1979)
  without opposition under a one-party system and stood for reelection
  in Angola's first multiparty elections 29-30 September 1992 (next to
  be held NA)

  election results:  DOS SANTOS 49.6%, Jonas SAVIMBI 40.1%, making a
  run-off election necessary; the run-off was not held and SAVIMBI's
  National Union for the Total Independence of Angola (UNITA)
  repudiated the results of the first election; the civil war resumed

Anguilla:
  chief of state:  Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February
  1952); represented by Governor Peter JOHNSTON (since NA February
  2000)

  head of government:  Chief Minister Osbourne FLEMING (since 3 March
  2000)

  cabinet:  Executive Council appointed by the governor from among the
  elected members of the House of Assembly

  elections:  none; the monarch is hereditary; governor appointed by
  the monarch; chief minister appointed by the governor from among the
  members of the House of Assembly

Antigua and Barbuda:
  chief of state:  Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6
  February 1952), represented by Governor General James B. CARLISLE
  (since NA 1993)

  head of government:  Prime Minister Lester Bryant BIRD (since 8
  March 1994)

  cabinet:  Council of Ministers appointed by the governor general on
  the advice of the prime minister

  elections:  none; the monarch is hereditary; governor general chosen
  by the monarch on the advice of the prime minister; prime minister
  appointed by the governor general

Argentina:
  chief of state:  President Fernando DE LA RUA (since 10
  December 1999); Vice President Carlos "Chacho" ALVAREZ resigned 6
  October 2000 and a replacement has not yet been named; note - the
  president is both the chief of state and head of government

  head of government:  President Fernando DE LA RUA (since 10 December
  1999); Vice President Carlos "Chacho" ALVAREZ resigned 6 October
  2000 and a replacement has not yet been named; note - the president
  is both the chief of state and head of government

  cabinet:  Cabinet appointed by the president

  elections:  president and vice president elected on the same ticket
  by popular vote for four-year terms; election last held 24 October
  1999 (next to be held NA October 2003)

  election results:  Fernando DE LA RUA elected president; percent of
  vote - 48.5%

Armenia:
  chief of state:  President Robert KOCHARIAN (since 30 March
  1998)

  head of government:  Prime Minister Andranik MARKARYAN (since 12 May
  2000)

  cabinet:  Council of Ministers appointed by the prime minister

  elections:  president elected by popular vote for a five-year term;
  special election last held 30 March 1998 (next to be held NA March
  2003); prime minister appointed by the president

  election results:  Robert KOCHARIAN elected president; percent of
  vote - Robert KOCHARIAN 59.5%, Karen DEMIRCHYAN 40.5%

Aruba:
  chief of state:  Queen BEATRIX Wilhelmina Armgard of the
  Netherlands (since 30 April 1980), represented by Governor General
  Olindo KOOLMAN (since 1 January 1992)

  head of government:  Prime Minister Jan (Henny) H. EMAN (since 29
  July 1994) and Deputy Prime Minister Lili BEKE-MARTINEZ

  cabinet:  Council of Ministers (elected by the Staten)

  elections:  the monarch is hereditary; governor general appointed
  for a six-year term by the monarch; prime minister and deputy prime
  minister elected by the Staten for four-year terms; election last
  held 12 July 1997 (next to be held by December 2001)

  election results:  Jan (Henny) H. EMAN elected prime minister;
  percent of legislative vote - NA%; Lili BEKE-MARTINEZ elected deputy
  prime minister; percent of legislative vote - NA%

Australia:
  chief of state:  Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February
  1952), represented by Governor General Rev. Peter HOLLINGSWORTH
  (since 29 June 2001)

  head of government:  Prime Minister John Winston HOWARD (since 11
  March 1996); Deputy Prime Minister John ANDERSON (since NA)

  cabinet:  Cabinet selected from among the members of Federal
  Parliament by the governor general on the advice of the prime
  minister

  elections:  none; the monarch is hereditary; governor general
  appointed by the monarch; following legislative elections, the
  leader of the majority party or leader of a majority coalition is
  usually appointed prime minister by the governor general for a
  three-year term

  note:  government coalition - Liberal Party and National Party

Austria:
  chief of state:  President Thomas KLESTIL (since 8 July
  1992)

  head of government:  Chancellor Wolfgang SCHUESSEL (OeVP)(since 4
  February 2000); Vice Chancellor Susanne RIESS-PASSER (FPOe) (since 4
  February 2000)

  cabinet:  Council of Ministers chosen by the president on the advice
  of the chancellor

  elections:  president elected by direct popular vote for a six-year
  term; presidential election last held 19 April 1998 (next to be held
  in the spring of 2004); chancellor traditionally chosen by the
  president from the plurality party in the National Council; in the
  case of the current coalition, the chancellor was chosen from
  another party after the plurality party failed to form a government;
  vice chancellor chosen by the president on the advice of the
  chancellor

  election results:  Thomas KLESTIL reelected president; percent of
  vote - Thomas KLESTIL 63%, Gertraud KNOLL 14%, Heide SCHMIDT 11%,
  Richard LUGNER 10%, Karl NOWAK 2%

  note:  government coalition - OeVP and FPOe

Azerbaijan:
  chief of state:  President Heydar ALIYEV (since 18 June
  1993)

  head of government:  Prime Minister Artur RASIZADE (since 26
  November 1996)

  cabinet:  Council of Ministers appointed by the president and
  confirmed by the National Assembly

  elections:  president elected by popular vote to a five-year term;
  election last held 11 October 1998 (next to be held NA October
  2003); prime minister and first deputy prime ministers appointed by
  the president and confirmed by the National Assembly

  election results:  Heydar ALIYEV reelected president; percent of
  vote - Heydar ALIYEV 77.6%, Etibar MAMEDOV 11.8%, Nizami SULEYMANOV
  8.2%

Bahamas, The:
  chief of state:  Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February
  1952), represented by Governor General Sir Orville TURNQUEST (since
  2 January 1995)

  head of government:  Prime Minister Hubert Alexander INGRAHAM (since
  19 August 1992) and Deputy Prime Minister Frank WATSON (since
  December 1994)

  cabinet:  Cabinet appointed by the governor general on the prime
  minister's recommendation

  elections:  none; the monarch is hereditary; governor general
  appointed by the monarch; prime minister and deputy prime minister
  appointed by the governor general

Bahrain:
  chief of state:  Amir HAMAD bin Isa Al Khalifa (since 6
  March 1999); Heir Apparent Crown Prince SALMAN bin Hamad (son of the
  monarch, born 21 October 1969)

  head of government:  Prime Minister KHALIFA bin Salman Al Khalifa
  (since NA 1971)

  cabinet:  Cabinet appointed by the monarch

  elections:  none; the monarch is hereditary; prime minister
  appointed by the monarch

Bangladesh:
  chief of state:  President Shahabuddin AHMED (since 9
  October 1996); note - the president's duties are normally
  ceremonial, but with the 13th amendment to the constitution
  ("Caretaker Government Amendment"), the president's role becomes
  significant at times when Parliament is dissolved and a caretaker
  government is installed - at presidential direction - to supervise
  the elections

  head of government:  Prime Minister Sheikh HASINA (since 13 July
  1996)

  cabinet:  Cabinet selected by the prime minister and appointed by
  the president

  elections:  president elected by National Parliament for a five-year
  term; election last held 24 July 1996 (next to be held by NA October
  2001); following legislative elections, the leader of the party that
  wins the most seats is usually appointed prime minister by the
  president

  election results:  Shahabuddin AHMED elected president without
  opposition; percent of National Parliament vote - NA%

Barbados:
  chief of state:  Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February
  1952), represented by Governor General Sir Clifford Straughn
  HUSBANDS (since 1 June 1996)

  head of government:  Prime Minister Owen Seymour ARTHUR (since 6
  September 1994); Deputy Prime Minister Billie MILLER (since 6
  September 1994)

  cabinet:  Cabinet appointed by the governor general on the advice of
  the prime minister

  elections:  none; the monarch is hereditary; governor general
  appointed by the monarch; prime minister appointed by the governor
  general

Belarus:
  chief of state:  President Aleksandr LUKASHENKO (since 20
  July 1994)

  head of government:  Prime Minister Vladimir YERMOSHIN (since 18
  February 2000); First Deputy Prime Minister Andrey KOBYAKOV (since
  13 March 2000); Deputy Prime Ministers Mikhail DEMCHUK (since 14
  July 2000), Mikhail KHORSTOV (since 27 November 2000), Valeriy
  KOKOREV (since 23 August 1994), Leonid KOZIK (since 4 February
  1997), Gennadiy NOVITSKIY (since 11 February 1997), Aleksandr POPKOV
  (since 10 November 1998)

  cabinet:  Council of Ministers

  elections:  president elected by popular vote for a five-year term;
  first election took place 23 June and 10 July 1994 (next to be held
  NA; according to the 1994 constitution, the next election should
  have been held in 1999, however LUKASHENKO extended his term to 2001
  via the November 1996 referendum); prime minister and deputy prime
  ministers appointed by the president

  election results:  Aleksandr LUKASHENKO elected president; percent
  of vote - Aleksandr LUKASHENKO 85%, Vyacheslav KEBICH 15%

Belgium:
  chief of state:  King ALBERT II (since 9 August 1993); Heir
  Apparent Prince PHILIPPE, son of the monarch

  head of government:  Prime Minister Guy VERHOFSTADT (since 13 July
  1999)

  cabinet:  Council of Ministers appointed by the monarch and approved
  by Parliament

  elections:  none; the monarch is hereditary; prime minister
  appointed by the monarch and then approved by Parliament

  note:  government coalition - VLD, PRL, PS, SP, AGALEV, and ECOLO

Belize:
  chief of state:  Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February 1952),
  represented by Governor General Sir Colville YOUNG (since 17
  November 1993)

  head of government:  Prime Minister Said MUSA (since 27 August
  1998); Deputy Prime Minister John BRICENO (since 1 September 1998)

  cabinet:  Cabinet appointed by the governor general on the advice of
  the prime minister

  elections:  none; the monarch is hereditary; governor general
  appointed by the monarch; governor general appoints the member of
  the House of Representatives who is leader of the majority party to
  be prime minister

Benin:
  chief of state:  President Mathieu KEREKOU (since 4 April
  1996); note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
  government

  head of government:  President Mathieu KEREKOU (since 4 April 1996);
  note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
  government

  cabinet:  Council of Ministers appointed by the president

  elections:  president reelected by popular vote for a five-year
  term; runoff election held 22 March 2001 (next to be held NA March
  2006)

  election results:  Mathieu KEREKOU reelected president; percent of
  vote - Mathieu KEREKOU 84.1%, Bruno AMOUSSOU 15.9%

  note:  the four top-ranking contenders following the first round
  presidential elections were: Mathieu KEREKOU (incumbent) 45.4%,
  Nicephore SOGOLO (former president) 27.1%, Adrien HOUNGBEDJI
  (National Assembly Speaker) 12.6%, and Bruno AMOUSSOU (Minister of
  State) 8.6%; the second round balloting, originally scheduled for 18
  March, was postponed four days because both SOGOLO and HOUNGBEDJI
  withdrew alleging electoral fraud; this left KEREKOU to run against
  his own Minister of State, AMOUSSOU, in what was termed a "friendly
  match"

Bermuda:
  chief of state:  Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February
  1952), represented by Governor Thorold MASEFIELD (since NA June 1997)

  head of government:  Premier Jennifer SMITH (since 10 November 1998)

  cabinet:  Cabinet nominated by the premier, appointed by the governor

  elections:  none; the monarch is hereditary; governor appointed by
  the monarch; governor invites leader of largest party in Parliament
  to form a government as premier

Bhutan:
  chief of state:  King Jigme Singye WANGCHUCK (since 24 July
  1972)

  head of government:  Chairman of the Council of Ministers Sangay
  NGEDUP (since NA 1999)

  cabinet:  Council of Ministers (Lhengye Shungtsog) nominated by the
  monarch, approved by the National Assembly; members serve fixed,
  five-year terms; note - there is also a Royal Advisory Council
  (Lodoi Tsokde), members nominated by the monarch

  elections:  none; the monarch is hereditary, but democratic reforms
  in July 1998 give the National Assembly authority to remove the
  monarch with two-thirds vote

Bolivia:
  chief of state:  President Hugo BANZER Suarez (since 6
  August 1997); Vice President Jorge Fernando QUIROGA Ramirez (since 6
  August 1997); note - the president is both the chief of state and
  head of government

  head of government:  President Hugo BANZER Suarez (since 6 August
  1997); Vice President Jorge Fernando QUIROGA Ramirez (since 6 August
  1997); note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
  government

  cabinet:  Cabinet appointed by the president

  elections:  president and vice president elected on the same ticket
  by popular vote for five-year terms; election last held 1 June 1997
  (next to be held May or June 2002)

  election results:  Hugo BANZER Suarez elected president; percent of
  vote - Hugo BANZER Suarez (ADN) 22%; Jaime PAZ Zamora (MIR) 17%,
  Juan Carlos DURAN (MNR) 18%, Ivo KULJIS (UCS) 16%, Remedios LOZA
  (CONDEPA) 17%; no candidate received a majority of the popular vote;
  Hugo BANZER Suarez won a congressional runoff election on 5 August
  1997 after forming a "megacoalition" with MIR, UCS, CONDEPA, NFR,
  and PDC

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  chief of state:  Chairman of the Presidency
  Jozo KRIZANOVI (chairman since 14 June 2001, presidency member since
  NA March 2001 - Croat); other members of the three-member rotating
  (every 8 months) presidency: Zivko RADISIC (since 13 October 1998 -
  Serb) and Beriz BELKIC (since NA March 2001 - Bosniak); note - Ante
  JELAVIC was dismissed from his post by the UN High Representative in
  March 2001

  head of government:  Chairman of the Council of Ministers Zlatko
  LAGUMDZIJA (since 18 July 2001)

  cabinet:  Council of Ministers nominated by the council chairman;
  approved by the National House of Representatives

  elections:  the three members of the presidency (one Bosniak, one
  Croat, one Serb) are elected by popular vote for a four-year term;
  the member with the most votes becomes the chairman unless he or she
  was the incumbent chairman at the time of the election; election
  last held 12-13 September 1998 (next to be held NA September 2002);
  the chairman of the Council of Ministers is appointed by the
  presidency and confirmed by the National House of Representatives

  election results:  percent of vote - Zivko RADISIC with 52% of the
  Serb vote was elected chairman of the collective presidency for the
  first 8 months; Ante JELAVIC with 52% of the Croat vote followed
  RADISIC in the rotation; Alija IZETBEGOVIC with 87% of the Bosniak
  vote won the highest number of votes in the election but was
  ineligible to serve a second term until RADISIC and JELAVIC had each
  served a first term as Chairman of the Presidency; IZETBEGOVIC
  retired from the presidency 14 October 2000 and was temporarily
  replaced by Halid GENJAC; Ante JELAVIC was replaced by Jozo
  KRIZANOVIC in March 2001

  note:  President of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina: Karlo
  FILIPOVIC (since 27 February 2001); Vice President Safet HALILOVIC
  (since 27 February 2001); note - president and vice president rotate
  every year; President of the Republika Srpska: Mirko SAROVIC (since
  11 November 2000)

Botswana:
  chief of state:  President Festus MOGAE (since 1 April
  1998) and Vice President Seretse Ian KHAMA (since 13 July 1998);
  note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
  government

  head of government:  President Festus MOGAE (since 1 April 1998) and
  Vice President Seretse Ian KHAMA (since 13 July 1998); note - the
  president is both the chief of state and head of government

  cabinet:  Cabinet appointed by the president

  elections:  president elected by the National Assembly for a
  five-year term; election last held 16 October 1999 (next to be held
  NA October 2004); vice president appointed by the president

  election results:  Festus MOGAE elected president; percent of
  National Assembly vote - 54.3%

Brazil:
  chief of state:  President Fernando Henrique CARDOSO (since
  1 January 1995); Vice President Marco MACIEL (since 1 January 1995);
  note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
  government

  head of government:  President Fernando Henrique CARDOSO (since 1
  January 1995); Vice President Marco MACIEL (since 1 January 1995);
  note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
  government

  cabinet:  Cabinet appointed by the president

  elections:  president and vice president elected on the same ticket
  by popular vote for four-year terms; election last held 4 October
  1998 (next to be held NA October 2002)

  election results:  Fernando Henrique CARDOSO reelected president;
  percent of vote - 53%

British Indian Ocean Territory:
  chief of state:  Queen ELIZABETH II
  (since 6 February 1952)

  head of government:  Commissioner John WHITE (since NA);
  Administrator Louise SAVILL (since NA); note - both reside in the UK

  cabinet:  NA

  elections:  none; the monarch is hereditary; commissioner and
  administrator appointed by the monarch

British Virgin Islands:
  chief of state:  Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6
  February 1952), represented by Governor Francis J. SAVAGE (since NA)

  head of government:  Chief Minister Ralph T. O'NEAL (since 15 May
  1995)

  cabinet:  Executive Council appointed by the governor from members
  of the Legislative Council

  elections:  none; the monarch is hereditary; governor appointed by
  the monarch; chief minister appointed by the governor from among the
  members of the Legislative Council

Brunei:
  chief of state:  Sultan and Prime Minister Sir HASSANAL
  Bolkiah (since 5 October 1967); note - the monarch is both the chief
  of state and head of government

  head of government:  Sultan and Prime Minister Sir HASSANAL Bolkiah
  (since 5 October 1967); note - the monarch is both the chief of
  state and head of government

  cabinet:  Council of Cabinet Ministers appointed and presided over
  by the monarch; deals with executive matters; note - there is also a
  Religious Council (members appointed by the monarch) that advises on
  religious matters, a Privy Council (members appointed by the
  monarch) that deals with constitutional matters, and the Council of
  Succession (members appointed by the monarch) that determines the
  succession to the throne if the need arises

  elections:  none; the monarch is hereditary

Bulgaria:
  chief of state:  President Petar STOYANOV (since 22
  January 1997); Vice President Todor KAVALDZHIEV (since 22 January
  1997)

  head of government:  Chairman of the Council of Ministers (Prime
  Minister) Ivan KOSTOV (since 19 May 1997); Deputy Prime Minister
  Petur ZHOTEV (since 21 December 1999)

  cabinet:  Council of Ministers elected by the National Assembly

  elections:  president and vice president elected on the same ticket
  by popular vote for five-year terms; election last held 27 October
  and 3 November 1996 (next to be held NA 2001); chairman of the
  Council of Ministers (prime minister) nominated by the president;
  deputy prime ministers nominated by the prime minister

  election results:  Petar STOYANOV elected president; percent of vote
  - Petar STOYANOV 59.73%

Burkina Faso:
  chief of state:  President Blaise COMPAORE (since 15
  October 1987)

  head of government:  Prime Minister Ernest Paramanga YONLI (since 6
  November 2000)

  cabinet:  Council of Ministers appointed by the president on the
  recommendation of the prime minister

  elections:  president elected by popular vote for a seven-year term;
  the president may serve unlimited terms; election last held 15
  November 1998 (next to be held NA 2005); prime minister appointed by
  the president with the consent of the legislature

  election results:  Blaise COMPAORE reelected president with 87.5%
  percent of the vote, 56% of voter turnout

  note:  President COMPAORE faces an increasingly well-coordinated
  opposition; recent charges against a former member of his
  Presidential Guard in the 1998 assassination of a newspaper editor
  signify an attempt to defuse chronic areas of dissatisfaction

Burma:
  chief of state:  Prime Minister and Chairman of the State
  Peace and Development Council Gen. THAN SHWE (since 23 April 1992);
  note - the prime minister is both the chief of state and head of
  government

  head of government:  Prime Minister and Chairman of the State Peace
  and Development Council Gen. THAN SHWE (since 23 April 1992); note -
  the prime minister is both the chief of state and head of government

  cabinet:  State Peace and Development Council (SPDC); military
  junta, so named 15 November 1997, which initially assumed power 18
  September 1988 under the name State Law and Order Restoration
  Council; the SPDC oversees the cabinet

  elections:  none; the prime minister assumed power upon resignation
  of the former prime minister

Burundi:
  chief of state:  President Pierre BUYOYA (interim president
  since 27 September 1996, officially sworn in 11 June 1998), First
  Vice President Frederic BAMVUGINYUMVIRA (since NA June 1998), Second
  Vice President Mathias SINAMENYE (since NA June 1998); note - the
  president is both chief of state and head of government

  head of government:  President Pierre BUYOYA (interim president
  since 27 September 1996, officially sworn in 11 June 1998), First
  Vice President Frederic BAMVUGINYUMVIRA (since NA June 1998), Second
  Vice President Mathias SINAMENYE (since NA June 1998); note - the
  president is both chief of state and head of government

  cabinet:  Council of Ministers appointed by president

  elections:  NA; current president assumed power following a coup on
  25 July 1996 in which former President NTIBANTUNGANYA was overthrown

Cambodia:
  chief of state:  King Norodom SIHANOUK (reinstated 24
  September 1993)

  head of government:  Prime Minister HUN SEN (since 30 November 1998)

  cabinet:  Council of Ministers appointed by the monarch

  elections:  none; the monarch is chosen by a Royal Throne Council;
  prime minister appointed by the monarch after a vote of confidence
  by the National Assembly

Cameroon:
  chief of state:  President Paul BIYA (since 6 November
  1982)

  head of government:  Prime Minister Peter Mafany MUSONGE (since 19
  September 1996)

  cabinet:  Cabinet appointed by the president from proposals
  submitted by the Prime Minister

  elections:  president elected by popular vote for a seven-year term;
  election last held 12 October 1997 (next to be held NA October
  2004); prime minister appointed by the president

  election results:  President Paul BIYA reelected; percent of vote -
  Paul BIYA 92.6%; note - supporters of the opposition candidates
  boycotted the elections, making a comparison of vote shares
  relatively meaningless

Canada:
  chief of state:  Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February 1952),
  represented by Governor General Adrienne CLARKSON (since 7 October
  1999)

  head of government:  Prime Minister Jean CHRETIEN (since 4 November
  1993)

  cabinet:  Federal Ministry chosen by the prime minister from among
  the members of his own party sitting in Parliament

  elections:  none; the monarch is hereditary; governor general
  appointed by the monarch on the advice of the prime minister for a
  five-year term; following legislative elections, the leader of the
  majority party in the House of Commons is automatically designated
  by the governor general to become prime minister

Cape Verde:
  chief of state:  President Pedro PIRES (since 22 March
  2001)

  head of government:  Prime Minister Jose Maria Pereira NEVES (since
  1 February 1991)

  cabinet:  Council of Ministers appointed by the president on the
  recommendation of the prime minister from among the members of the
  National Assembly

  elections:  president elected by popular vote for a five-year term;
  election last held 11 and 25 February 2001 (next to be held NA
  February 2006); prime minister nominated by the National Assembly
  and appointed by the president

  election results:  Pedro PIRES elected president; percent of vote -
  Pedro PIRES (PAICV) 49.43%, Carlos VIEGA (MPD) 49.42%; note: the
  election was won by only twelve votes

Cayman Islands:
  chief of state:  Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6
  February 1952); Governor and President of the Executive Council
  Peter SMITH (since 5 May 1999)

  head of government:  Kurt TIBBETTS (since November 2000)

  cabinet:  Executive Council (three members appointed by the
  governor, four members elected by the Legislative Assembly)

  elections:  none; the monarch is hereditary; the governor is
  appointed by the monarch

Central African Republic:
  chief of state:  President Ange-Felix
  PATASSE (since 22 October 1993)

  head of government:  Prime Minister Martin ZIGUELE (since 1 April
  2001)

  cabinet:  Council of Ministers

  elections:  president elected by popular vote for a six-year term;
  election last held 19 September 1999 (next to be held NA 2005);
  prime minister appointed by the president

  election results:  Ange-Felix PATASSE reelected president; percent
  of vote - Ange-Felix PATASSE 51.63%, Andre KOLINGBA 19.38%, David
  DACKO 11.15%

Chad:
  chief of state:  President Lt. Gen. Idriss DEBY (since 4
  December 1990)

  head of government:  Prime Minister Nagoum YAMASSOUM (since 13
  December 1999)

  cabinet:  Council of State, members appointed by the president on
  the recommendation of the prime minister

  elections:  president elected by popular vote to serve five-year
  term; if no candidate receives at least 50% of the total vote, the
  two candidates receiving the most votes must stand for a second
  round of voting; last held 20 May 2001 (next to be held NA 2006);
  prime minister appointed by the president

  election results:  Lt. Gen. Idriss DEBY elected president; percent
  of vote - Lt. Gen. Idriss DEBY 63%, Ngarlegy YORONGAR 16%, Saleh
  KEBZABO 7%

  note:  government coalition - MPS, UNDR, and URD

Chile:
  chief of state:  President Ricardo LAGOS Escobar (since 11
  March 2000); note - the president is both the chief of state and
  head of government

  head of government:  President Ricardo LAGOS Escobar (since 11 March
  2000); note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
  government

  cabinet:  Cabinet appointed by the president

  elections:  president elected by popular vote for a six-year term;
  election last held 12 December 1999, with runoff election held 16
  January 2000 (next to be held NA December 2005)

  election results:  Ricardo LAGOS Escobar elected president; percent
  of vote - Ricardo LAGOS Escobar 51.32%, Joaquin LAVIN 48.68%

China:
  chief of state:  President JIANG Zemin (since 27 March 1993)
  and Vice President HU Jintao (since 16 March 1998)

  head of government:  Premier ZHU Rongji (since 18 March 1998); Vice
  Premiers QIAN Qichen (since 29 March 1993), LI Lanqing (29 March
  1993), WU Bangguo (since 17 March 1995), and WEN Jiabao (since 18
  March 1998)

  cabinet:  State Council appointed by the National People's Congress
  (NPC)

  elections:  president and vice president elected by the National
  People's Congress for five-year terms; elections last held 16-18
  March 1998 (next to be held NA March 2003); premier nominated by the
  president, confirmed by the National People's Congress

  election results:  JIANG Zemin reelected president by the Ninth
  National People's Congress with a total of 2,882 votes (36 delegates
  voted against him, 29 abstained, and 32 did not vote); HU Jintao
  elected vice president by the Ninth National People's Congress with
  a total of 2,841 votes (67 delegates voted against him, 39
  abstained, and 32 did not vote)

Christmas Island:
  chief of state:  Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6
  February 1952), represented by the Australian governor general

  head of government:  Administrator William Leonard TAYLOR (since 4
  February 1999)

  elections:  none; the monarch is hereditary; administrator appointed
  by the governor general of Australia and represents the monarch and
  Australia

Cocos (Keeling) Islands:
  chief of state:  Queen ELIZABETH II (since
  6 February 1952), represented by the Australian governor general

  head of government:  Administrator (non-resident) William Leonard
  TAYLOR (since 4 February 1999)

  cabinet:  NA

  elections:  none; the monarch is hereditary; administrator appointed
  by the governor general of Australia and represents the monarch and
  Australia

Colombia:
  chief of state:  President Andres PASTRANA (since 7 August
  1998); Vice President Gustavo BELL Lemus (since 7 August 1998); note
  - the president is both the chief of state and head of government

  head of government:  President Andres PASTRANA (since 7 August
  1998); Vice President Gustavo BELL Lemus (since 7 August 1998); note
  - the president is both the chief of state and head of government

  cabinet:  Cabinet Cabinet consists of a coalition of the two
  dominant parties - the PL and PSC - and independents

  elections:  president elected by popular vote for a four-year term;
  election last held 31 May 1998 (next to be held NA May 2002); vice
  president elected by popular vote for a four-year term in a new
  procedure that replaces the traditional designation of vice
  presidents by newly elected presidents; election last held 31 May
  1998 (next to be held NA May 2002)

  election results:  no candidate received more than 50% of the total
  vote, therefore, a run-off election to select a president from the
  two leading candidates was held 21 June 1998; Andres PASTRANA
  elected president; percent of vote - 50.3%; Gustavo BELL elected
  vice president; percent of vote - 50.3%

Comoros:
  chief of state:  President AZALI Assoumani (since 6 May
  1999); note - the interim government of President Tajiddine Ben Said
  MASSOUNDE, which had assumed power on 6 November 1998 upon the death
  of President Mohamed TAKI Abdulkarim, was overthrown in a bloodless
  coup on 30 April 1999

  head of government:  Prime Minister Hamada MADI (since late November
  2000)

  cabinet:  Council of Ministers appointed by the president

  elections:  president elected by popular vote for a five-year term;
  election last held 6 and 16 March 1996 (next to be held NA); prime
  minister appointed by the president

  note:  President AZALI claimed a one-year term at the time of the
  coup; but elections, promised for spring 2000, were not held

  election results:  results of the last presidential election before
  the coup were: Mohamed TAKI Abdulkarim elected president; percent of
  vote - 64.3%

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  chief of state:  Joseph KABILA
  (since 26 January 2001); note - the president succeeded his father
  Laurent Desire KABILA after his assassination on 16 January 2001; as
  president he is both chief of state and head of government

  head of government:  Joseph KABILA (since 26 January 2001); note -
  the president succeeded his father Laurent Desire KABILA after his
  assassination on 16 January 2001; as president he is both chief of
  state and head of government

  cabinet:  National Executive Council, appointed by the president

  elections:  before Laurent Desire KABILA seized power, the president
  was elected by popular vote for a seven-year term; election last
  held 29 July 1984 (next was scheduled to be held in May 1997);
  formerly, the prime minister was elected by the High Council of the
  Republic; note - elections were not held in 1991 as called for by
  the constitution

  election results:  results of the last election were: MOBUTU Sese
  Seko Kuku Ngbendu wa Za Banga reelected president in 1984 without
  opposition

  note:  Marshal MOBUTU Sese Seko Kuku Ngbendu wa Za Banga was
  president from 24 November 1965 until forced into exile on 16 May
  1997 when his government was overthrown militarily by Laurent Desire
  KABILA, who immediately assumed governing authority; KABILA pledged
  to hold elections by April 1999, but in December 1998 announced that
  elections would be postponed until all foreign military forces
  attempting to topple the government had withdrawn from the country;
  KABILA was assassinated in January 2001 and was succeeded by his son
  Joseph KABILA

Congo, Republic of the:
  chief of state:  President Denis
  SASSOU-NGUESSO (since 25 October 1997, following the civil war in
  which he toppled elected president Pascal LISSOUBA); note - the
  president is both the chief of state and head of government

  head of government:  President Denis SASSOU-NGUESSO (since 25
  October 1997, following the civil war in which he toppled elected
  president Pascal LISSOUBA); note - the president is both the chief
  of state and head of government

  cabinet:  Council of Ministers appointed by the president

  elections:  president elected by popular vote for a five-year term;
  election last held 16 August 1992 (next was to be held 27 July 1997
  but will be delayed for several years pending the drafting of a new
  constitution)

  election results:  Pascal LISSOUBA elected president in 1992;
  percent of vote - Pascal LISSOUBA 61.3%, Bernard KOLELAS 38.7%; note
  - LISSOUBA was deposed in 1997, replaced by Denis SASSOU-NGUESSO

Cook Islands:
  chief of state:  Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February
  1952), represented by Apenera SHORT (since NA); New Zealand High
  Commissioner Jon JONESSEN (since NA January 1998), representative of
  New Zealand

  head of government:  Prime Minister Dr. Terepai MAOATE (since 18
  November 1999); Deputy Prime Minister Norman GEORGE (since NA)

  cabinet:  Cabinet chosen by the prime minister; collectively
  responsible to Parliament

  elections:  none; the monarch is hereditary; the UK representative
  is appointed by the monarch; the New Zealand high commissioner is
  appointed by the New Zealand Government; following legislative
  elections, the leader of the party that wins the most seats usually
  becomes prime minister

  note:  ten years of rule by the Cook Islands Party (CIP) came to an
  end 18 November 1999 with the resignation of Prime Minister Joe
  WILLIAMS; WILLIAMS had led a minority government since October 1999
  when the New Alliance Party (NAP) left the government coalition and
  joined the main opposition Democratic Alliance Party (DAP); on 18
  November 1999, DAP leader Dr. Terepai MAOATE was sworn in as prime
  minister

Coral Sea Islands:
  administered from Canberra by the Department of
  the Environment, Sport, and Territories

Costa Rica:
  chief of state:  President Miguel Angel RODRIGUEZ (since
  8 May 1998); First Vice President Astrid FISCHEL Volio (since 8 May
  1998), Second Vice President Elizabeth ODIO Benito (since 8 May
  1998); note - president is both the chief of state and head of
  government

  head of government:  President Miguel Angel RODRIGUEZ (since 8 May
  1998); First Vice President Astrid FISCHEL Volio (since 8 May 1998),
  Second Vice President Elizabeth ODIO Benito (since 8 May 1998); note
  - president is both the chief of state and head of government

  cabinet:  Cabinet selected by the president

  elections:  president and vice presidents elected on the same ticket
  by popular vote for four-year terms; election last held 1 February
  1998 (next to be held 3 February 2002)

  election results:  Miguel Angel RODRIGUEZ elected president; percent
  of vote - Miguel Angel RODRIGUEZ (PUSC) 46.6%, Jose Miguel CORRALES
  (PLN) 44.6%

Cote d'Ivoire:
  chief of state:  President Laurent GBAGBO (since 26
  October 2000); note - took power following a popular overthrow of
  the interim leader Gen. Robert GUEI who had claimed a dubious
  victory in presidential elections; Gen. GUEI himself had assumed
  power on 25 December 1999, following a military coup against the
  government of former President Henri Konan BEDIE

  head of government:  Prime Minister and Minister of Planning and
  Development Affi N'GUESSAN (since 27 October 2000) appointed by the
  president

  cabinet:  Council of Ministers appointed by the president

  elections:  president elected by popular vote for a five-year term;
  election last held 26 October 2000 (next is scheduled to be held NA
  2005); prime minister appointed by the president

  election results:  Laurent GBAGBO elected president; percent of vote
  - Laurent GBAGBO 59.4%, Robert GUEI 32.7%, Francis WODIE 5.7%, other
  2.2%

Croatia:
  chief of state:  President Stjepan (Stipe) MESIC (since 18
  February 2000)

  head of government:  Prime Minister Ivica RACAN (since 27 January
  2000); Deputy Prime Ministers Goran GRANIC (since 27 January 2000),
  Zeljka ANTUNOVIC (since 27 January 2000), Slavko LINIC (since 27
  January 2000)

  cabinet:  Council of Ministers named by the prime minister and
  approved by the House of Representatives

  elections:  president elected by popular vote for a five-year term;
  election last held 7 February 2000 (next to be held NA 2005); prime
  minister nominated by the president in line with the balance of
  power in the Assembly

  election results:  Stjepan MESIC elected president; percent of vote
  - Stjepan MESIC (HNS) 56%, Drazen BUDISA (HSLS) 44%

  note:  government coalition - SDP, HSLS, HSS, LP, HNS, IDS

Cuba:
  chief of state:  President of the Council of State and
  President of the Council of Ministers Fidel CASTRO Ruz (prime
  minister from February 1959 until 24 February 1976 when office was
  abolished; president since 2 December 1976); First Vice President of
  the Council of State and First Vice President of the Council of
  Ministers Gen. Raul CASTRO Ruz (since 2 December 1976); note - the
  president is both the chief of state and head of government

  head of government:  President of the Council of State and President
  of the Council of Ministers Fidel CASTRO Ruz (prime minister from
  February 1959 until 24 February 1976 when office was abolished;
  president since 2 December 1976); First Vice President of the
  Council of State and First Vice President of the Council of
  Ministers Gen. Raul CASTRO Ruz (since 2 December 1976); note - the
  president is both the chief of state and head of government

  cabinet:  Council of Ministers proposed by the president of the
  Council of State, appointed by the National Assembly; note - there
  is also a Council of State whose members are elected by the National
  Assembly

  elections:  president and vice president elected by the National
  Assembly; election last held 24 February 1998 (next election
  unscheduled)

  election results:  Fidel CASTRO Ruz elected president; percent of
  legislative vote - 100%; Raul CASTRO Ruz elected vice president;
  percent of legislative vote - 100%

Cyprus:
  chief of state:  President Glafcos CLERIDES (since 28
  February 1993); note - the president is both the chief of state and
  head of government; post of vice president is currently vacant;
  under the 1960 constitution, the post is reserved for a Turkish
  Cypriot

  head of government:  President Glafcos CLERIDES (since 28 February
  1993); note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
  government; post of vice president is currently vacant; under the
  1960 constitution, the post is reserved for a Turkish Cypriot

  cabinet:  Council of Ministers appointed jointly by the president
  and vice president

  elections:  president elected by popular vote for a five-year term;
  election last held 15 February 1998 (next to be held NA February
  2003)

  election results:  Glafcos CLERIDES reelected president; percent of
  vote - Glafcos CLERIDES 50.8%, George IAKOVOU 49.2%

  note:  Rauf R. DENKTASH has been "president" of the Turkish Cypriot
  area since 13 February 1975 ("president" elected by popular vote for
  a five-year term); elections last held 15 April 2000 (next to be
  held NA April 2005); results - Rauf R. DENKTASH reelected president
  after the other contender withdrew; Dervis EROGLU has been "prime
  minister" of the Turkish Cypriot area since 16 August 1996; there is
  a Council of Ministers (cabinet) in the Turkish Cypriot area

Czech Republic:
  chief of state:  President Vaclav HAVEL (since 2
  February 1993)

  head of government:  Prime Minister Milos ZEMAN (since 17 July
  1998); Deputy Prime Ministers Vladimir SPIDLA (since 22 July 1998),
  Pavel RYCHETSKY (since 22 July 1998), Jan KAVAN (since 8 December
  1999)

  cabinet:  Cabinet appointed by the president on the recommendation
  of the prime minister

  elections:  president elected by Parliament for a five-year term;
  election last held 20 January 1998 (next to be held NA January
  2003); prime minister appointed by the president

  election results:  Vaclav HAVEL reelected president; Vaclav HAVEL
  received 47 of 81 votes in the Senate and 99 out of 200 votes in the
  Chamber of Deputies (second round of voting)

Denmark:
  chief of state:  Queen MARGRETHE II (since 14 January
  1972); Heir Apparent Crown Prince FREDERIK, elder son of the monarch
  (born 26 May 1968)

  head of government:  Prime Minister Poul Nyrup RASMUSSEN (since 25
  January 1993)

  cabinet:  Cabinet appointed by the prime minister and approved by
  Parliament

  elections:  none; the monarch is hereditary; prime minister
  appointed by the monarch

Djibouti:
  chief of state:  President GUELLEH Ismail Omar (since 8
  May 1999);

  head of government:  Prime Minister DILLEITA Mohamed Dilleita (since
  4 March 2001)

  cabinet:  Council of Ministers responsible to the president

  elections:  president elected by popular vote for a six-year term;
  election last held 9 April 1999 (next to be held NA 2005); prime
  minister appointed by the president

  election results:  GUELLEH Ismail Omar elected president; percent of
  vote - GUELLEH Ismail Omar 74.4%, IDRIS Moussa Ahmed 25.6%

Dominica:
  chief of state:  President Vernon Lordon SHAW (since 6
  October 1998)

  head of government:  Prime Minister Pierre CHARLES (since 1 October
  2000); note - assumed post after death of Roosevelt DOUGLAS

  cabinet:  Cabinet appointed by the president on the advice of the
  prime minister

  elections:  president elected by the House of Assembly for a
  five-year term; election last held 6 October 1998 (next to be held
  NA October 2003); prime minister appointed by the president

  election results:  Vernon Lordon SHAW elected president; percent of
  legislative vote - NA%

Dominican Republic:
  chief of state:  President Rafael Hipolito MEJIA
  Dominguez (since 16 August 2000); Vice President Milagros
  ORTIZ-BOSCH (since 16 August 2000); note - the president is both the
  chief of state and head of government

  head of government:  President Rafael Hipolito MEJIA Dominguez
  (since 16 August 2000); Vice President Milagros ORTIZ-BOSCH (since
  16 August 2000); note - the president is both the chief of state and
  head of government

  cabinet:  Cabinet nominated by the president

  elections:  president and vice president elected on the same ticket
  by popular vote for four-year term; election last held 16 May 2000
  (next to be held NA May 2004)

  election results:  Raphael Hipolito MEJIA Dominguez elected
  president; percent of vote - Rafael Hipolito MEJIA Dominguez (PRD)
  49.87%, Danilo MEDINA (PLD) 24.95%, Joaquin BALAGUER (PRSC) 24.6%

Ecuador:
  chief of state:  President Gustavo NOBOA Bejarano (since 22
  January 2000) selected president following coup that deposed
  President MAHUAD; Vice President Pedro PINTO Rubianes (since 28
  January 2000) elected by National Congress from a slate of
  candidates submitted by President NABOA; note - the president is
  both the chief of state and head of government

  head of government:  President Gustavo NOBOA Bejarano (since 22
  January 2000) selected president following coup that deposed
  President MAHUAD; Vice President Pedro PINTO Rubianes (since 28
  January 2000) elected by National Congress from a slate of
  candidates submitted by President NABOA; note - the president is
  both the chief of state and head of government

  cabinet:  Cabinet appointed by the president

  elections:  president and vice president elected on the same ticket
  by popular vote for four-year term (no reelection); election last
  held 31 May 1998; runoff election held 12 July 1998 (next to be held
  NA 2002)

  election results:  results of the last election prior to the coup
  were: Jamil MAHUAD elected president; percent of vote - 51%

  note:  a military-indigenous coup toppled democratically elected
  President Jamil MAHAUD on 21 January 2000; the military quickly
  handed power over to Vice President Gustavo NOBOA on 22 January;
  National Congress then elected a new vice president from a slate of
  candidates submitted by NOBOA; the new administration is scheduled
  to complete the remainder of MAHAUD's term, due to expire in January
  2003

Egypt:
  chief of state:  President Mohammed Hosni MUBARAK (since 14
  October 1981)

  head of government:  Prime Minister Atef OBEID (since 5 October 1999)

  cabinet:  Cabinet appointed by the president

  elections:  president nominated by the People's Assembly for a
  six-year term, the nomination must then be validated by a national,
  popular referendum; national referendum last held 26 September 1999
  (next to be held NA October 2005); prime minister appointed by the
  president

  election results:  national referendum validated President MUBARAK's
  nomination by the People's Assembly to a fourth term

El Salvador:
  chief of state:  President Francisco FLORES Perez
  (since 1 June 1999); Vice President Carlos QUINTANILLA Schmidt
  (since 1 June 1999); note - the president is both the chief of state
  and head of government

  head of government:  President Francisco FLORES Perez (since 1 June
  1999); Vice President Carlos QUINTANILLA Schmidt (since 1 June
  1999); note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
  government

  cabinet:  cabinet selected by the president

  elections:  president and vice president elected on the same ticket
  by popular vote for five-year terms; election last held 7 March 1999
  (next to be held NA March 2004)

  election results:  Francisco FLORES Perez elected president; percent
  of vote - Francisco FLORES (ARENA) 52%, Facundo GUARDADO (FMLN) 29%,
  Ruben ZAMORA (CDU) 7.5%, other (no individual above 3%) 11.5%

Equatorial Guinea:
  chief of state:  President Brig. Gen. (Ret.)
  Teodoro OBIANG NGUEMA MBASOGO (since 3 August 1979 when he seized
  power in a military coup)

  head of government:  Prime Minister Candido Muatetema RIVAS (since
  26 February 2001); First Deputy Prime Minister Miguel OYONO NDONG
  (since NA January 1998); Deputy Prime Minister Demetrio Elo NDONG
  NZE FUMU (since NA January 1998)

  cabinet:  Council of Ministers appointed by the president

  elections:  president elected by popular vote to a seven-year term;
  election last held 25 February 1996 (next to be held NA February
  2003); prime minister and vice prime ministers appointed by the
  president

  election results:  President Teodoro OBIANG NGUEMA MBASOGO reelected
  with 98% of popular vote in elections marred by widespread fraud

Eritrea:
  chief of state:  President ISAIAS Afworki (since 8 June
  1993); note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
  government and is head of the State Council and National Assembly

  head of government:  President ISAIAS Afworki (since 8 June 1993);
  note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
  government and is head of the State Council and National Assembly

  cabinet:  State Council is the collective executive authority

  elections:  president elected by the National Assembly; election
  last held 8 June 1993 (next tentatively scheduled for December 2001)

  election results:  ISAIAS Afworki elected president; percent of
  National Assembly vote - ISAIAS Afworki 95%

Estonia:
  chief of state:  President Lennart MERI (since 5 October
  1992)

  head of government:  Prime Minister Mart LAAR (since 29 March 1999)

  cabinet:  Council of Ministers appointed by the prime minister,
  approved by Parliament

  elections:  president elected by Parliament for a five-year term; if
  he or she does not secure two-thirds of the votes after three rounds
  of balloting, then an electoral assembly (made up of Parliament plus
  members of local governments) elects the president, choosing between
  the two candidates with the largest percentage of votes; election
  last held August-September 1996 (next to be held in the fall of
  2001); prime minister nominated by the president and approved by
  Parliament

  election results:  Lennart MERI reelected president by an electoral
  assembly after Parliament was unable to break a deadlock between
  MERI and RUUTEL; percent of electoral assembly vote - Lennart MERI
  61%, Arnold RUUTEL 39%

Ethiopia:
  chief of state:  President NEGASSO Gidada (since 22 August
  1995)

  head of government:  Prime Minister MELES Zenawi (since NA August
  1995)

  cabinet:  Council of Ministers as provided for in the December 1994
  constitution; ministers are selected by the prime minister and
  approved by the House of People's Representatives

  elections:  president elected by the House of People's
  Representatives for a six-year term; election last held NA June 1995
  (next to be held NA May 2001); prime minister designated by the
  party in power following legislative elections

  election results:  NEGASSO Gidada elected president; percent of vote
  by the House of People's Representatives - NA%

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas):
  chief of state:  Queen ELIZABETH
  II (since 6 February 1952)

  head of government:  Governor Donald LAMONT (since NA May 1999);
  Chief Executive A. M. GURR (since NA); Financial Secretary D. F.
  HOWATT (since NA)

  cabinet:  Executive Council; three members elected by the
  Legislative Council, two ex officio members (chief executive and the
  financial secretary), and the governor

  elections:  none; the monarch is hereditary; governor appointed by
  the monarch

Faroe Islands:
  chief of state:  Queen MARGRETHE II of Denmark (since
  14 January 1972), represented by High Commissioner Ms. Vibeke
  LARSEN, chief administrative officer (since NA)

  head of government:  Prime Minister Anfinn KALLSBERG (since 15 May
  1998)

  cabinet:  Landsstyri appointed by the prime minister

  elections:  the monarch is hereditary; high commissioner appointed
  by the monarch; following legislative elections, the leader of the
  party that wins the most seats is usually elected prime minister by
  the Faroese Parliament; election last held 30 April 1998 (next to be
  held no later than April 2002)

  election results:  Anfinn KALLSBERG elected prime minister; percent
  of parliamentary vote - 52.8%

  note:  coalition of People's Party, Republican Party and Home Rule
  Party

Fiji:
  note:  armed ethnic Fijian terrorists, led by George SPEIGHT
  stormed the Parliament building on 19 May 2000; ethnic Indo-Fijian
  Prime Minister Mahendra CHAUDHRY and his government were held
  hostage for 56 days; following the attempted coup, the Commander of
  the Fiji Military Forces, naval Commodore Frank BAINIMARAMA declared
  martial law and dissolved the government on 29 May 2000; an interim
  government, headed by interim Prime Minister Laisenia QARASE, was
  appointed to serve until a new constitution was initiated and
  subsequent elections held; in November 2000, Fiji's High Court
  upheld the 1997 constitution and ruled that Ratu Sir Kamisese MARA
  remained the president; Justice Anthony GATES concluded that MARA
  should recall the pre-May 19th Parliament and appoint a prime
  minister to form a new government; the Fiji Court of Appeals upheld
  GATES' decision on 1 March 2001; it ruled that the 1997 constitution
  had not been abrogated, Parliament had not been dissolved, only
  prorogued for six months, and that the presidency remained vacant
  since MARA's resignation took effect 15 December 2000; President
  Ratu Josefa ILOILO reinstated QARASE's interim government as the
  caretaker government and elections were scheduled for August 2001;
  approximately 23 fluid political parties are currently jockeying for
  power

  chief of state:  President Ratu Josefa ILOILO (since NA 2000); Vice
  President Jope SENILOLI (since NA 2000)

  head of government:  Prime Minister Laisenia QARASE (since NA 2000);
  Deputy Prime Minister Epeli NAILATIKAU (since NA 2000)

  cabinet:  Cabinet appointed by the prime minister from among the
  members of Parliament and is responsible to Parliament; note -there
  is also a Presidential Council that advises the president on matters
  of national importance and a Great Council of Chiefs which consists
  of the highest ranking members of the traditional chiefly system

  elections:  president elected by the Great Council of Chiefs for a
  five-year term; prime minister appointed by the president

  election results:  Ratu Josefa ILOILO elected president by the Great
  Council of Chiefs; percent of vote - NA%

Finland:
  chief of state:  President Tarja HALONEN (since 1 March
  2000)

  head of government:  Prime Minister Paavo LIPPONEN (since 13 April
  1995) and Deputy Prime Minister Sauli NIINISTO (since 13 April 1995)

  cabinet:  Council of State or Valtioneuvosto appointed by the
  president, responsible to Parliament

  elections:  president elected by popular vote for a six-year term;
  election last held 6 February 2000 (next to be held NA February
  2006); prime minister and deputy prime minister appointed from the
  majority party by the president after parliamentary elections

  election results:  Tarja HALONEN elected president; percent of vote
  - Tarja HALONEN (SDP) 51.6%, Esco AHO (Kesk) 48.4%

  note:  government coalition - SDP, Kok, Leftist Alliance (People's
  Democratic Union and Democratic Alternative), SFP, and Green Union

France:
  chief of state:  President Jacques CHIRAC (since 17 May 1995)

  head of government:  Prime Minister Lionel JOSPIN (since 3 June 1997)

  cabinet:  Council of Ministers appointed by the president on the
  suggestion of the prime minister

  elections:  president elected by popular vote for a seven-year term;
  election last held 23 April and 7 May 1995 (next to be held by May
  2002); prime minister nominated by the National Assembly majority
  and appointed by the president

  election results:  Jacques CHIRAC elected president; percent of
  vote, second ballot - Jacques CHIRAC (RPR) 52.64%, Lionel JOSPIN
  (PS) 47.36%

French Guiana:
  chief of state:  President Jacques CHIRAC of France
  (since 17 May 1995), represented by Prefect Dominique VIAN (since NA
  January 1997)

  head of government:  President of the General Council Andre LECANTE
  (since NA March 1998); President of the Regional Council Antoine
  KARAM (since 22 March 1992)

  cabinet:  NA

  elections:  French president elected by popular vote for a
  seven-year term; prefect appointed by the French president on the
  advice of the French Ministry of Interior; presidents of the General
  and Regional Councils are appointed by the members of those councils

French Polynesia:
  chief of state:  President Jacques CHIRAC of
  France (since 17 May 1995), represented by High Commissioner of the
  Republic Paul RONCIERE (since NA 1994)

  head of government:  President of the Territorial Government of
  French Polynesia Gaston FLOSSE (since 4 April 1991); President of
  the Territorial Assembly Justin ARAPARI (since 13 May 1996)

  cabinet:  Council of Ministers; president submits a list of members
  of the Territorial Assembly for approval by them to serve as
  ministers

  elections:  French president elected by popular vote for a
  seven-year term; high commissioner appointed by the French president
  on the advice of the French Ministry of Interior; president of the
  Territorial Government and the president of the Territorial Assembly
  are elected by the members of the assembly

Gabon:
  chief of state:  President El Hadj Omar BONGO (since 2
  December 1967)

  head of government:  Prime Minister Jean-Francois NTOUTOUME-EMANE
  (since 23 January 1999)

  cabinet:  Council of Ministers appointed by the prime minister in
  consultation with the president

  elections:  president elected by popular vote for a seven-year term;
  election last held 6 December 1998 (next to be held NA 2005); prime
  minister appointed by the president

  election results:  President El Hadj Omar BONGO reelected; percent
  of vote - El Hadj Omar BONGO 66.6%, Pierre MAMBOUNDOU 16.5%, Fr.
  Paul M'BA-ABESSOLE 13.4%

Gambia, The:
  chief of state:  President Yahya A. J. J. JAMMEH (since
  18 October 1996); Vice President Isatou Njie SAIDY (since 20 March
  1997); note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
  government

  head of government:  President Yahya A. J. J. JAMMEH (since 18
  October 1996); Vice President Isatou Njie SAIDY (since 20 March
  1997); note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
  government

  cabinet:  Cabinet is appointed by the president

  elections:  the president is elected by popular vote for a five-year
  term; the number of terms is not restricted; election last held 26
  September 1996 (next to be held NA October 2001)

  election results:  Yahya A. J. J. JAMMEH elected president; percent
  of vote - Yahya A. J. J. JAMMEH 55.8%, Ousainou DARBOE 35.8%

Georgia:
  chief of state:  President Eduard Amvrosiyevich
  SHEVARDNADZE (previously elected chairman of the Government Council
  10 March 1992; Council has since been disbanded; previously elected
  chairman of Parliament 11 October 1992; president since 26 November
  1995); note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
  government

  head of government:  President Eduard Amvrosiyevich SHEVARDNADZE
  (previously elected chairman of the Government Council 10 March
  1992; Council has since been disbanded; previously elected chairman
  of Parliament 11 October 1992; president since 26 November 1995);
  note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
  government

  cabinet:  Cabinet of Ministers

  elections:  president elected by popular vote for a five-year term;
  election last held 9 April 2000 (next to be held NA 2005)

  election results:  Eduard SHEVARDNADZE reelected president; percent
  of vote - Eduard SHEVARDNADZE 80%

Germany:
  chief of state:  President Johannes RAU (since 1 July 1999)

  head of government:  Chancellor Gerhard SCHROEDER (since 27 October
  1998)

  cabinet:  Cabinet or Bundesminister (Federal Ministers) appointed by
  the president on the recommendation of the chancellor

  elections:  president elected for a five-year term by a Federal
  Convention including all members of the Federal Assembly and an
  equal number of delegates elected by the state parliaments; election
  last held 23 May 1999 (next to be held 23 May 2004); chancellor
  elected by an absolute majority of the Federal Assembly for a
  four-year term; election last held 27 September 1998 (next to be
  held in the fall of 2002)

  election results:  Johannes RAU elected president; percent of
  Federal Convention vote - 57.6%; Gerhard SCHROEDER elected
  chancellor; percent of Federal Assembly - 52.7%

Ghana:
  chief of state:  President John Agyekum KUFUOR (since 7
  January 2001); Vice President Alhaji Aliu MAHAMA (since 7 January
  2001); note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
  government

  head of government:  President John Agyekum KUFUOR (since 7 January
  2001); Vice President Alhaji Aliu MAHAMA (since 7 January 2001);
  note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
  government

  cabinet:  Council of Ministers; president nominates members subject
  to approval by Parliament

  elections:  president and vice president elected on the same ticket
  by popular vote for four-year terms; election last held 7 and 28
  December 2000 (next to be held NA December 2004)

  election results:  John Agyekum KUFUOR elected president in runoff;
  percent of vote - John KUFUOR 56.4%, John Atta MILLS 43.6%

Gibraltar:
  chief of state:  Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February
  1952), represented by Governor and Commander-in-Chief David DURIE
  (since 5 April 2000); note - DURIE was appointed in February 2000
  but took office in April 2000

  head of government:  Chief Minister Peter CARUANA (since 17 May 1996)

  cabinet:  Council of Ministers appointed from among the 15 elected
  members of the House of Assembly by the governor in consultation
  with the chief minister; note - there is also a Gibraltar Council
  that advises the governor

  elections:  none; the monarch is hereditary; governor appointed by
  the monarch; chief minister appointed by the governor

Greece:
  chief of state:  President Konstandinos (Kostis)
  STEPHANOPOULOS (since 10 March 1995)

  head of government:  Prime Minister Konstandinos SIMITIS (since 19
  January 1996)

  cabinet:  Cabinet appointed by the president on the recommendation
  of the prime minister

  elections:  president elected by Parliament for a five-year term;
  election last held 8 February 2000 (next to be held by NA March
  2005); prime minister appointed by the president

  election results:  Konstandinos STEPHANOPOULOS reelected president;
  percent of Parliament vote - 90%

Greenland:
  chief of state:  Queen MARGRETHE II of Denmark (since 14
  January 1972), represented by High Commissioner Gunnar MARTENS
  (since NA 1995)

  head of government:  Prime Minister Jonathan MOTZFELDT (since 19
  September 1997)

  cabinet:  Home Rule Government is elected by the Parliament
  (Landstinget) on the basis of the strength of parties

  elections:  the monarch is hereditary; high commissioner appointed
  by the monarch; prime minister is elected by Parliament (usually the
  leader of the majority party); election last held 16 February 1999
  (next to be held NA February 2003)

  election results:  Jonathan MOTZFELDT reelected prime minister
  following the 16 February 1999 elections; percent of parliamentary
  vote - 57.3%

  note:  government coalition - Siumut and Inuit Ataqatigiit (IA)

Grenada:
  chief of state:  Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February
  1952), represented by Governor General Daniel WILLIAMS (since 9
  August 1996)

  head of government:  Prime Minister Keith MITCHELL (since 22 June
  1995)

  cabinet:  Cabinet appointed by the governor general on the advice of
  the prime minister

  elections:  none; the monarch is hereditary; governor general
  appointed by the monarch; prime minister appointed by the governor
  general from among the members of the House of Assembly

Guadeloupe:
  chief of state:  President Jacques CHIRAC of France
  (since 17 May 1995), represented by Prefect Jean FEDINI (since NA
  1996)

  head of government:  President of the General Council Marcellin
  LUBETH (since NA March 1998); President of the Regional Council
  Lucette MICHAUX-CHEVRY (since 22 March 1992)

  cabinet:  NA

  elections:  French president elected by popular vote for a
  seven-year term; prefect appointed by the French president on the
  advice of the French Ministry of Interior; the presidents of the
  General and Regional Councils are elected by the members of those
  councils

  election results:  NA

Guam:
  chief of state:  President George W. BUSH of the US (since 20
  January 2001); Vice President Richard B. CHENEY (since 20 January
  2001)

  head of government:  Governor Carl GUTIERREZ (since 8 November 1994)
  and Lieutenant Governor Madeleine BORDALLO (since 8 November 1994)

  cabinet:  executive departments; heads appointed by the governor
  with the consent of the Guam legislature

  elections:  US president and vice president elected on the same
  ticket for a four-year term; governor and lieutenant governor
  elected on the same ticket by popular vote for four-year terms;
  election last held 3 November 1998 (next to be held NA November 2002)

  election results:  Carl GUTIERREZ reelected governor; percent of
  vote - Carl GUTIERREZ (Democrat) 53.2%, Joseph ADA (Republican) 46.8%

Guatemala:
  chief of state:  President Alfonso Antonio PORTILLO
  Cabrera (since 14 January 2000); Vice President Juan Francisco REYES
  Lopez (since 14 January 2000); note - the president is both the
  chief of state and head of government

  head of government:  President Alfonso Antonio PORTILLO Cabrera
  (since 14 January 2000); Vice President Juan Francisco REYES Lopez
  (since 14 January 2000); note - the president is both the chief of
  state and head of government

  cabinet:  Council of Ministers named by the president

  elections:  president elected by popular vote for a four-year term;
  election last held 7 November 1999; runoff held 26 December 1999
  (next to be held NA November 2003)

  election results:  Alfonso Antonio PORTILLO Cabrera elected
  president; percent of vote - Alfonso Antonio PORTILLO Cabrera (FRG)
  68%, Oscar BERGER Perdomo (PAN) 32%

Guernsey:
  chief of state:  Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February 1952)

  head of government:  Lieutenant Governor and Commander-in-Chief Lt.
  Gen. Sir John FOLEY (since NA 2000) and Bailiff De Vic G. CAREY
  (since NA)

  cabinet:  Advisory and Finance Committee appointed by the Assembly
  of the States

  elections:  none; the monarch is hereditary; lieutenant governor
  appointed by the monarch; bailiff appointed by the monarch

Guinea:
  chief of state:  President Lansana CONTE (head of military
  government since 5 April 1984, elected president 19 December 1993)

  head of government:  Prime Minister Lamine SIDIME (since 8 March
  1999)

  cabinet:  Council of Ministers appointed by the president

  elections:  president elected by popular vote for a five-year term;
  candidate must receive a majority of the votes cast to be elected
  president; election last held 14 December 1998 (next to be held NA
  December 2003); the prime minister is appointed by the president

  election results:  Lansana CONTE reelected president; percent of
  vote - Lansana CONTE (PUP) 56.1%, Mamadou Boye BA (UNR-PRP) 24.6%,
  Alpha CONDE (RPG) 16.6%,

Guinea-Bissau:
  chief of state:  President Koumba YALLA (since 18
  February 2000)

  head of government:  Prime Minister Faustino IMBALI (since 20 March
  2001)

  cabinet:  NA

  elections:  president elected by popular vote for a five-year term;
  election last held 28 November 1999 and 16 January 2000 (next to be
  held NA 2004); prime minister appointed by the president after
  consultation with party leaders in the legislature

  election results:  Koumba YALLA elected president; percent of vote,
  second ballot - Koumba YALLA (PRS) 72%, Malan Bacai SANHA (PAIGC) 28%

Guyana:
  chief of state:  President Bharrat JAGDEO (since 11 August
  1999); note - assumed presidency after resignation of President JAGAN

  head of government:  Prime Minister Samuel HINDS (since NA December
  1997)

  cabinet:  Cabinet of Ministers appointed by the president,
  responsible to the legislature

  elections:  president elected by the majority party in the National
  Assembly following legislative elections, which must be held at
  least every five years; elections last held 19 March 2001 (next to
  be held NA); prime minister appointed by the president

  election results:  President Bharrat JAGDEO reelected; percent of
  legislative vote - NA%

Haiti:
  chief of state:  President Jean-Bertrand ARISTIDE (since 7
  February 2001)

  head of government:  Prime Minister Jean-Marie CHERESTAL (since 9
  February 2001)

  cabinet:  Cabinet chosen by the prime minister in consultation with
  the president

  elections:  president elected by popular vote for a five-year term;
  election last held 26 November 2000 (next to be held NA 2005); prime
  minister appointed by the president, ratified by the Congress

  election results:  Jean-Bertrand ARISTIDE elected president; percent
  of vote - Jean-Bertrand ARISTIDE 92%

Holy See (Vatican City):
  chief of state:  Pope JOHN PAUL II (since
  16 October 1978)

  head of government:  Secretary of State Cardinal Angelo SODANO
  (since 2 December 1990)

  cabinet:  Pontifical Commission appointed by the pope

  elections:  pope elected for life by the College of Cardinals;
  election last held 16 October 1978 (next to be held after the death
  of the current pope); secretary of state appointed by the pope

  election results:  Karol WOJTYLA elected pope

Honduras:
  chief of state:  President Carlos Roberto FLORES Facusse
  (since 27 January 1998); note - the president is both the chief of
  state and head of government; First Vice President William HANDAL
  (since NA); Second Vice President Gladys CABALLERO de Arevalo (since
  NA); Third Vice President Hector Vidal CERRATO Hernandez (since NA)

  head of government:  President Carlos Roberto FLORES Facusse (since
  27 January 1998); note - the president is both the chief of state
  and head of government; First Vice President William HANDAL (since
  NA); Second Vice President Gladys CABALLERO de Arevalo (since NA);
  Third Vice President Hector Vidal CERRATO Hernandez (since NA)

  cabinet:  Cabinet appointed by president

  elections:  president elected by popular vote for a four-year term;
  election last held 30 November 1997 (next to be held 25 November
  2001)

  election results:  Carlos Roberto FLORES Facusse elected president;
  percent of vote - Carlos Roberto FLORES Facusse (PL) 50%, Nora de
  MELGAR (PN) 40%, other 10%

Hong Kong:
  chief of state:  President of China JIANG Zemin (since 27
  March 1993)

  head of government:  Chief Executive TUNG Chee-hwa (since 1 July
  1997)

  cabinet:  Executive Council consists of three ex-officio members and
  10 appointed members; ex-officio members are: Chief Secretary Anson
  CHAN (since 29 November 1993), Financial Secretary Donald TSANG
  (since 7 March 1995), and Secretary of Justice Elsie LEUNG (since 1
  July 1997)

  elections:  NA

Hungary:
  chief of state:  Ferenc MADL (since NA August 2000)

  head of government:  Prime Minister Viktor ORBAN (since 6 July 1998)

  cabinet:  Council of Ministers elected by the National Assembly on
  the recommendation of the president

  elections:  president elected by the National Assembly for a
  five-year term; election last held 6 June 2000 (next to be held by
  June 2005); prime minister elected by the National Assembly on the
  recommendation of the president

  election results:  Ferenc MADL elected president; percent of
  legislative vote - NA% (but by a simple majority in the third round
  of voting); Viktor ORBAN elected prime minister; percent of
  legislative vote - NA%

  note:  to be elected, the president must win two-thirds of
  legislative vote in the first two rounds or a simple majority in the
  third round

Iceland:
  chief of state:  President Olafur Ragnar GRIMSSON (since 1
  August 1996)

  head of government:  Prime Minister David ODDSSON (since 30 April
  1991)

  cabinet:  Cabinet appointed by the prime minister and approved by
  Parliament

  elections:  president elected by popular vote for a four-year term;
  election last held 29 June 1996 (next to be held NA June 2004);
  President GRIMSSON ran unopposed in June 2000 so there were no
  elections; prime minister appointed by the president

  election results:  Olafur Ragnar GRIMSSON elected president;
  President GRIMSSON ran unopposed

India:
  chief of state:  President Kicheril Raman NARAYANAN (since 25
  July 1997); Vice President Krishnan KANT (since 21 August 1997)

  head of government:  Prime Minister Atal Behari VAJPAYEE (since 19
  March 1998)

  cabinet:  Council of Ministers appointed by the president on the
  recommendation of the prime minister

  elections:  president elected by an electoral college consisting of
  elected members of both houses of Parliament and the legislatures of
  the states for a five-year term; election last held 14 July 1997
  (next to be held NA July 2002); vice president elected by both
  houses of Parliament for a five-year term; election last held 16
  August 1997 (next to be held NA August 2002); prime minister elected
  by parliamentary members of the majority party following legislative
  elections; election last held NA October 1999 (next to be held NA
  October 2004)

  election results:  Kicheril Raman NARAYANAN elected president;
  percent of electoral college vote - NA%; Krishnan KANT elected vice
  president; percent of Parliament vote - NA%; Atal Behari VAJPAYEE
  elected prime minister; percent of vote - NA%

Indonesia:
  chief of state:  President Abdurrahman WAHID (since 20
  October 1999) and Vice President MEGAWATI Sukarnoputri (since 21
  October 1999); note - the president is both the chief of state and
  head of government

  head of government:  President Abdurrahman WAHID (since 20 October
  1999) and Vice President MEGAWATI Sukarnoputri (since 21 October
  1999); note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
  government

  cabinet:  Cabinet appointed by the president

  elections:  president and vice president elected separately by the
  700-member People's Consultative Assembly or MPR for five-year
  terms; election last held 20 and 21 October 1999 (next to be held by
  NA 2004)

  election results:  Abdurrahman WAHID elected president, receiving
  373 votes to 313 votes for MEGAWATI Sukarnoputri; MEGAWATI
  Sukarnoputri elected vice president, defeating Hamzah HAZ; vote
  totals NA

  note:  the People's Consultative Assembly (Majelis Permusyawaratan
  Rakyat or MPR) includes the House of Representatives (Dewan
  Perwakilan Rakyat or DPR) plus 200 indirectly selected members; it
  meets every five years to elect the president and vice president and
  to approve the broad outlines of national policy

Iran:
  chief of state:  Leader of the Islamic Revolution Ayatollah
  Ali Hoseini-KHAMENEI (since 4 June 1989)

  head of government:  President (Ali) Mohammad KHATAMI-Ardakani
  (since 3 August 1997); First Vice President Dr. Mohammad Reza
  AREF-YAZDI (since NA August 2001)

  cabinet:  Council of Ministers selected by the president with
  legislative approval

  elections:  leader of the Islamic Revolution appointed for life by
  the Assembly of Experts; president elected by popular vote for a
  four-year term; election last held 8 June 2001 (next to be held NA
  2005)

  election results:  (Ali) Mohammad KHATAMI-Ardakani reelected
  president; percent of vote - (Ali) Mohammad KHATAMI-Ardakani 77%

Iraq:
  chief of state:  President SADDAM Husayn (since 16 July 1979);
  Vice Presidents Taha Muhyi al-Din MARUF (since 21 April 1974) and
  Taha Yasin RAMADAN (since 23 March 1991)

  head of government:  Prime Minister SADDAM Husayn (since 29 May
  1994); Deputy Prime Ministers Tariq Mikhail AZIZ (since NA 1979),
  Hikmat Mizban Ibrahim al-AZZAWI (since 30 July 1999), Ahmad Husayn
  al-KHUDAYIR (since NA July 2001), and Abd al-Tawab Mullah al-HUWAYSH
  (since NA July 2001)

  cabinet:  Council of Ministers; note - there is also a Revolutionary
  Command Council or RCC (Chairman SADDAM Husayn, Vice Chairman Izzat
  IBRAHIM al-Duri) which controls the ruling Ba'th Party, and is the
  most powerful political entity in the country

  elections:  president and vice presidents elected by a two-thirds
  majority of the Revolutionary Command Council; election last held 17
  October 1995 (next to be held NA 2002)

  election results:  SADDAM Husayn reelected president; percent of
  vote - 99%; Taha Muhyi al-Din MARUF and Taha Yasin RAMADAN elected
  vice presidents; percent of vote - NA%

Ireland:
  chief of state:  President Mary MCALEESE (since 11 November
  1997)

  head of government:  Prime Minister Bertie AHERN (since 26 June 1997)

  cabinet:  Cabinet appointed by the president with previous
  nomination by the prime minister and approval of the House of
  Representatives

  elections:  president elected by popular vote for a seven-year term;
  election last held 31 October 1997 (next to be held NA November
  2004); prime minister nominated by the House of Representatives and
  appointed by the president

  election results:  Mary MCALEESE elected president; percent of vote
  - Mary MCALEESE 44.8%, Mary BANOTTI 29.6%

  note:  government coalition - Fianna Fail and the Progressive
  Democrats

Israel:
  chief of state:  President Moshe KATSAV (since 31 July 2000)

  head of government:  Prime Minister Ariel SHARON (since 2 March 2001)

  cabinet:  Cabinet selected by prime minister and approved by the
  Knesset

  elections:  president elected by the Knesset for a five-year term;
  election last held 31 July 2000 (next to be held NA July 2005);
  prime minister elected by popular vote for a four-year term;
  election last held 6 February 2001 (next to be held NA 2005); note -
  in March 1992, the Knesset approved legislation, effective in 1996,
  which allowed for the direct election of the prime minister, but in
  2001 the Knesset voted to restore the previous method under which
  the legislators will choose the next prime minister after the next
  legislative elections in 2003

  election results:  Moshe KATSAV elected president by the 120-member
  Knesset with a total of 60 votes, other candidate, Shimon PERES,
  received 57 votes (there were three abstentions); Ariel SHARON
  elected prime minister; percent of vote - Ariel SHARON 62.5%, Ehud
  BARAK 37.4%; note - after the next legislative elections scheduled
  for 2003, the prime minister will be elected by the Knesset

Italy:
  chief of state:  President Carlo Azeglio CIAMPI (since 13 May
  1999)

  head of government:  Prime Minister (referred to in Italy as the
  president of the Council of Ministers) Silvio BERLUSCONI (since 10
  June 2001)

  cabinet:  Council of Ministers nominated by the prime minister and
  approved by the president

  elections:  president elected by an electoral college consisting of
  both houses of Parliament and 58 regional representatives for a
  seven-year term; election last held 13 May 1999 (next to be held NA
  May 2006); prime minister appointed by the president and confirmed
  by parliament

  election results:  Carlo Azeglio CIAMPI elected president; percent
  of electoral college vote - 70%

  note:  a 12-party government coalition; note - BERLUSCONI's
  coalition includes Forza Italian, National Alliance, Christian
  Democratic Center, Christian Northern League

Jamaica:
  chief of state:  Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February
  1952), represented by Governor General Sir Howard Felix COOKE (since
  1 August 1991)

  head of government:  Prime Minister Percival James PATTERSON (since
  30 March 1992) and Deputy Prime Minister Seymour MULLINGS (since NA
  1993)

  cabinet:  Cabinet appointed by the governor general on the advice of
  the prime minister

  elections:  none; the monarch is hereditary; governor general
  appointed by the monarch on the recommendation of the prime
  minister; prime minister and deputy prime minister appointed by the
  governor general

Japan:
  chief of state:  Emperor AKIHITO (since 7 January 1989)

  head of government:  Prime Minister Junichiro KOIZUMI (since 24
  April 2001)

  cabinet:  Cabinet appointed by the prime minister

  elections:  none; the monarch is hereditary; the Diet designates the
  prime minister; the constitution requires that the prime minister
  must command a parliamentary majority, therefore, following
  legislative elections, the leader of the majority party or leader of
  a majority coalition in the House of Representatives usually becomes
  prime minister

  note:  following the resignation of Prime Minister Yoshiro MORI,
  Junichiro KOIZUMI was elected as the new president of the majority
  Liberal Democratic Party, and soon thereafter designated by the Diet
  to become the next prime minister

Jersey:
  chief of state:  Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February 1952)

  head of government:  Lieutenant Governor and Commander in Chief Air
  Chief Marshall Sir John CHESHIRE (since 24 January 2001) and Bailiff
  Philip Martin BAILHACHE (since NA February 1995)

  cabinet:  committees appointed by the Assembly of the States

  elections:  none; the monarch is hereditary; lieutenant governor and
  bailiff appointed by the monarch

Jordan:
  chief of state:  King ABDALLAH II (since 7 February 1999);
  Crown Prince HAMZAH (half brother of the monarch, born 29 March 1980)

  head of government:  Prime Minister Ali Abul RAGHEB (since 19 June
  2000)

  cabinet:  Cabinet appointed by the prime minister in consultation
  with the monarch

  elections:  none; the monarch is hereditary; prime minister
  appointed by the monarch

Kazakhstan:
  chief of state:  President Nursultan A. NAZARBAYEV
  (chairman of the Supreme Soviet from 22 February 1990, elected
  president 1 December 1991)

  head of government:  Prime Minister Kazymzhomart TOKAYEV (since 2
  October 1999)

  cabinet:  Council of Ministers appointed by the president

  elections:  president elected by popular vote for a seven-year term;
  election last held 10 January 1999, a year before it was previously
  scheduled (next to be held NA 2006); note - President NAZARBAYEV's
  previous term had been extended to 2000 by a nationwide referendum
  held 30 April 1995; prime minister and first deputy prime minister
  appointed by the president

  election results:  Nursultan A. NAZARBAYEV reelected president;
  percent of vote - Nursultan A. NAZARBAYEV 81.7%, Serikbolsyn
  ABDILDIN 12.1%, Gani KASYMOV 4.7%, other 1.5%

  note:  President NAZARBAYEV expanded his presidential powers by
  decree: only he can initiate constitutional amendments, appoint and
  dismiss the government, dissolve Parliament, call referenda at his
  discretion, and appoint administrative heads of regions and cities

Kenya:
  chief of state:  President Daniel Toroitich arap MOI (since
  14 October 1978); note - the president is both the chief of state
  and head of government

  head of government:  President Daniel Toroitich arap MOI (since 14
  October 1978); note - the president is both the chief of state and
  head of government

  cabinet:  Cabinet appointed by the president

  elections:  president elected by popular vote from among the members
  of the National Assembly for a five-year term; in addition to
  receiving the largest number of votes in absolute terms, the
  presidential candidate must also win 25% or more of the vote in at
  least five of Kenya's seven provinces and one area to avoid a
  runoff; election last held 29 December 1997 (next to be held by
  early 2003); vice president appointed by the president

  election results:  President Daniel Toroitich arap MOI reelected;
  percent of vote - Daniel T. arap MOI (KANU) 40.6%, Mwai KIBAKI (DP)
  31.5%, Raila ODINGA (NDP) 11.1%, Michael WAMALWA (FORD-K) 8.4%,
  Charity NGILU (SDP) 7.8%

Kiribati:
  chief of state:  President Teburoro TITO (since 1 October
  1994); Vice President Tewareka TENTOA (since 12 October 1994); note
  - the president is both the chief of state and head of government

  head of government:  President Teburoro TITO (since 1 October 1994);
  Vice President Tewareka TENTOA (since 12 October 1994); note - the
  president is both the chief of state and head of government

  cabinet:  Cabinet appointed by the president from among the members
  of the House of Assembly, includes the president, vice president,
  attorney general, and up to eight other ministers

  elections:  the House of Assembly chooses the presidential
  candidates from among their members and then those candidates
  compete in a general election; president is elected by popular vote
  for a four-year term; election last held 27 November 1998 (next to
  be held by NA November 2002); vice president appointed by the
  president

  election results:  Teburoro TITO reelected president; percent of
  vote - Teburoro TITO 52.3%, Dr. Harry TONG 45.8%, Amberoti NIKORA
  1.9%, Taberannang TIMEON 0%

Korea, North:
  chief of state:  KIM Chong-il (since NA July 1994);
  note - in September 1998, KIM Chong-il was reelected Chairman of the
  National Defense Commission, a position accorded the nation's
  "highest administrative authority"; KIM Yong-nam was named President
  of the Supreme People's Assembly Presidium and given the
  responsibility of representing the state and receiving diplomatic
  credentials

  head of government:  Premier HONG Song-nam (since 5 September 1998)

  cabinet:  Cabinet (Naegak), members, except for the Minister of
  People's Armed Forces, are appointed by the Supreme People's Assembly

  elections:  premier elected by the Supreme People's Assembly;
  election last held NA September 1998 (next to be held NA)

  election results:  HONG Song-nam elected premier; percent of Supreme
  People's Assembly vote - NA%

Korea, South:
  chief of state:  President KIM Dae-jung (since 25
  February 1998)

  head of government:  Prime Minister YI Han-tong (since 23 May 2000)

  cabinet:  State Council appointed by the president on the prime
  minister's recommendation

  elections:  president elected by popular vote for a single five-year
  term; election last held 18 December 1997 (next to be held by 18
  December 2002); prime minister appointed by the president; deputy
  prime ministers appointed by the president on the prime minister's
  recommendation

  election results:  KIM Dae-jung elected president; percent of vote -
  KIM Dae-jung (NCNP) 40.3% (with ULD partnership), YI Hoe-chang (GNP)
  38.7%, YI In-che (NPP) 19.2%

Kuwait:
  chief of state:  Amir JABIR al-Ahmad al-Jabir Al Sabah
  (since 31 December 1977)

  head of government:  Prime Minister and Crown Prince SAAD
  al-Abdallah al-Salim Al Sabah (since 8 February 1978); First Deputy
  Prime Minister SABAH al-Ahmad al-Jabir Al Sabah (since 17 October
  1992); Deputy Prime Ministers JABIR MUBARAK al-Hamud Al Sabah (since
  NA) and MUHAMMAD KHALID al-Hamed Al Sabah (since NA)

  cabinet:  Council of Ministers appointed by the prime minister and
  approved by the monarch

  elections:  none; the monarch is hereditary; prime minister and
  deputy prime ministers appointed by the monarch

Kyrgyzstan:
  chief of state:  President Askar AKAYEV (since 28
  October 1990)

  head of government:  Prime Minister Kurmanbek BAKIYEV (since 22
  December 2000)

  cabinet:  Cabinet of Ministers appointed by the president on the
  recommendation of the prime minister

  elections:  president reelected by popular vote for a five-year
  term; elections last held 29 October 2000 (next to be held November
  or December 2005); prime minister appointed by the president

  election results:  Askar AKAYEV reelected president; percent of vote
  - Askar AKAYEV 74%, Omurbek TEKEBAYEV 14%, other candidates 12%;
  note - election marred by serious irregularities

Laos:
  chief of state:  President Gen. KHAMTAI Siphandon (since 26
  February 1998) and Vice President Lt. Gen. CHOUMMALI Saignason
  (since NA March 2001)

  head of government:  Prime Minister BOUNGNANG Volachit (since NA
  March 2001); Deputy Prime Ministers THONGLOUN Sisolit (since NA
  March 2001), SOMSAVAT Lengsavat (since 26 February 1998)

  cabinet:  Council of Ministers appointed by the president, approved
  by the National Assembly

  elections:  president elected by the National Assembly for a
  five-year term; election last held 21 December 1997 (next to be held
  NA 2002); prime minister appointed by the president with the
  approval of the National Assembly for a five-year term

  election results:  KHAMTAI Siphandon elected president; percent of
  National Assembly vote - NA%

Latvia:
  chief of state:  President Vaira VIKE-FREIBERGA (since 8
  July 1999)

  head of government:  Prime Minister Andris BERZINS (since 5 May 2000)

  cabinet:  Council of Ministers nominated by the prime minister and
  appointed by the Parliament

  elections:  president elected by Parliament for a four-year term;
  election last held 17 June 1999 (next to be held by NA June 2003);
  prime minister appointed by the president

  election results:  Vaira VIKE-FREIBERGA elected as a compromise
  candidate in second phase of balloting, second round (after five
  rounds in first phase failed); percent of parliamentary vote - Vaira
  VIKE-FREIBERGA 53%, Valdis BIRKAVS 20%, Ingrida UDRE 9%

Lebanon:
  chief of state:  President Emile LAHUD (since 24 November
  1998)

  head of government:  Prime Minister Rafiq HARIRI (since 23 October
  2000); Deputy Prime Minister Issam FARES (since 23 October 2000)

  cabinet:  Cabinet chosen by the prime minister in consultation with
  the president and members of the National Assembly; the current
  Cabinet was formed in 1998

  elections:  president elected by the National Assembly for a
  six-year term; election last held 15 October 1998 (next to be held
  NA 2004); prime minister and deputy prime minister appointed by the
  president in consultation with the National Assembly; by custom, the
  president is a Maronite Christian, the prime minister is a Sunni
  Muslim, and the speaker of the legislature is a Shi'a Muslim

  election results:  Emile LAHUD elected president; National Assembly
  vote - 118 votes in favor, 0 against, 10 abstentions

Lesotho:
  chief of state:  King LETSIE III (since 7 February 1996);
  note - King LETSIE III formerly occupied the throne from November
  1990 to February 1995, while his father was in exile

  head of government:  Prime Minister Pakalitha MOSISILI (since 23 May
  1998)

  cabinet:  Cabinet

  elections:  none; according to the constitution, the leader of the
  majority party in the assembly automatically becomes prime minister;
  the monarch is hereditary, but, under the terms of the constitution
  which came into effect after the March 1993 election, the monarch is
  a "living symbol of national unity" with no executive or legislative
  powers; under traditional law the college of chiefs has the power to
  determine who is next in the line of succession, who shall serve as
  regent in the event that the successor is not of mature age, and may
  even depose the monarch

Liberia:
  chief of state:  President Charles Ghankay TAYLOR (since 2
  August 1997); note - the president is both the chief of state and
  head of government

  head of government:  President Charles Ghankay TAYLOR (since 2
  August 1997); note - the president is both the chief of state and
  head of government

  cabinet:  Cabinet appointed by the president and confirmed by the
  Senate

  elections:  president elected by popular vote for a six-year term
  (renewable); election last held 19 July 1997 (next to be held NA
  July 2003)

  election results:  Charles Ghankay TAYLOR elected president; percent
  of vote - Charles Ghankay TAYLOR (NPP) 75.3%, Ellen Johnson SIRLEAF
  (UP) 9.6%, Alhaji KROMAH (ALCOP) 4%, other 11.1%

Libya:
  chief of state:  Revolutionary Leader Col. Muammar Abu Minyar
  al-QADHAFI (since 1 September 1969); note - holds no official title,
  but is de facto chief of state

  head of government:  Secretary of the General People's Committee
  (Premier) Mubarak al-SHAMEKH (since 2 March 2000)

  cabinet:  General People's Committee established by the General
  People's Congress

  elections:  national elections are indirect through a hierarchy of
  people's committees; head of government elected by the General
  People's Congress; election last held 2 March 2000 (next to be held
  NA)

  election results:  Mubarak al-SHAMEKH elected premier; percent of
  General People's Congress vote - NA%

Liechtenstein:
  chief of state:  Prince HANS ADAM II (since 13
  November 1989, assumed executive powers 26 August 1984); Heir
  Apparent Prince ALOIS, son of the monarch (born 11 June 1968)

  head of government:  Head of Government Mario FRICK (since 15
  December 1993) and Deputy Head of Government Michael RITTER (since 2
  February 1997)

  cabinet:  Cabinet elected by the Diet; confirmed by the monarch

  elections:  none; the monarch is hereditary; following legislative
  elections, the leader of the majority party in the Diet is usually
  appointed the head of government by the monarch and the leader of
  the largest minority party in the Diet is usually appointed the
  deputy head of government by the monarch

Lithuania:
  chief of state:  President Valdas ADAMKUS (since 26
  February 1998)

  head of government:  Premier Algirdas BRAZAUSKAS (since 3 July 2001)

  cabinet:  Council of Ministers appointed by the president on the
  nomination of the premier

  elections:  president elected by popular vote for a five-year term;
  election last held 21 December 1997 and 4 January 1998 (next to be
  held NA 2002); premier appointed by the president on the approval of
  the Parliament

  election results:  Valdas ADAMKUS elected president; percent of vote
  - Valdas ADAMKUS 50.4%, Arturas PAULAUSKAS 49.6%

Luxembourg:
  chief of state:  Grand Duke HENRI (since 7 October
  2000); Heir Apparent Prince GUILLAUME (son of the monarch, born 11
  November 1981);

  head of government:  Prime Minister Jean-Claude JUNCKER (since 1
  January 1995) and Vice Prime Minister Lydie POLFER (since 7 August
  1999)

  cabinet:  Council of Ministers recommended by the prime minister and
  appointed by the monarch

  elections:  none; the monarch is hereditary; prime minister and vice
  prime minister appointed by the monarch, following popular election
  to the Chamber of Deputies; they are responsible to the Chamber of
  Deputies

  note:  government coalition - CSV and DP

Macau:
  chief of state:  President of China JIANG Zemin (since 27
  March 1993)

  head of government:  Chief Executive Edmund HO Hau-wah (since 20
  December 1999)

  cabinet:  Executive Council consists of all five government
  secretaries, three legislators, and two businessmen

  elections:  NA

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  chief of state:
  President Boris TRAJKOVSKI (since 15 December 1999)

  head of government:  Prime Minister Ljubco GEORGIEVSKI (since 30
  November 1998)

  cabinet:  Council of Ministers elected by the majority vote of all
  the deputies in the Assembly; note - current cabinet formed by the
  government coalition parties VMRO-DPMNE, LDP, and DPA

  elections:  president elected by popular vote for a five-year term;
  election last held 14 November 1999 (next to be held NA October
  2004); prime minister elected by parliament; election last held NA
  November 1998 (next to be held NA 2002)

  election results:  Boris TRAJKOVSKI elected president on
  second-round ballot; percent of vote - Boris TRAJKOVSKI 52.4%, Tito
  PETKOVSKI 46.2%

Madagascar:
  chief of state:  President Didier RATSIRAKA (since 10
  February 1997)

  head of government:  Prime Minister Tantely Rene Gabriot
  ANDRIANARIVO (since NA 1998)

  cabinet:  Council of Ministers appointed by the prime minister

  elections:  president elected by popular vote for a five-year term;
  election last held 29 December 1996 (next to be held NA November
  2001); prime minister appointed by the president from a list of
  candidates nominated by the National Assembly

  election results:  Didier RATSIRAKA elected president; percent of
  vote - Didier RATSIRAKA (AREMA) 50.7%, Albert ZAFY (AFFA) 49.3%

Malawi:
  chief of state:  President Bakili MULUZI (since 21 May
  1994); note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
  government

  head of government:  President Bakili MULUZI (since 21 May 1994);
  note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
  government

  cabinet:  36-member Cabinet named by the president

  elections:  president elected by popular vote for a five-year term;
  election last held 15 June 1999 (next to be held NA 2004)

  election results:  Bakili MULUZI reelected president; percent of
  vote - Bakili MULUZI (UDF) 51.4%, Gwandaguluwe CHAKUAMBA (MCP-AFORD)
  44.3%

Malaysia:
  chief of state:  Paramount Ruler Sultan TUNKU SALAHUDDIN
  Abdul Aziz Shah ibni Al-Marhum Sultan Hisammuddin Alam Shah (since
  26 April 1999); Deputy Paramount Ruler Sultan MIZAN Zainal Abidin
  ibni A-Marhum Sultan Mahmud Al-Muktafi Billah Shah

  head of government:  Prime Minister Dr. MAHATHIR bin Mohamad (since
  16 July 1981); Deputy Prime Minister ABDULLAH bin Ahmad Badawi
  (since 8 January 1999)

  cabinet:  Cabinet appointed by the prime minister from among the
  members of Parliament with consent of the paramount ruler

  elections:  paramount ruler and deputy paramount ruler elected by
  and from the hereditary rulers of nine of the states for five-year
  terms; election last held 27 February 1999 (next to be held NA
  2004); prime minister designated from among the members of the House
  of Representatives; following legislative elections, the leader of
  the party that wins a plurality of seats in the House of
  Representatives becomes prime minister

  election results:  Sultan TUNKU SALAHUDDIN Abdul Aziz Shah ibni
  Al-Marhum Sultan Hisammuddin Alam Shah elected paramount ruler;
  Sultan MIZAN Zainal Abidin ibni A-Marhum Sultan Mahmud Al-Muktafi
  Billah Shah elected deputy paramount ruler

Maldives:
  chief of state:  President Maumoon Abdul GAYOOM (since 11
  November 1978); note - the president is both the chief of state and
  head of government

  head of government:  President Maumoon Abdul GAYOOM (since 11
  November 1978); note - the president is both the chief of state and
  head of government

  cabinet:  appointed by the president; note - need not be members of
  Majlis

  elections:  president nominated by the Majlis and then that
  nomination must be ratified by a national referendum (at least a 51%
  approval margin is required); president elected for a five-year
  term; election last held 16 October 1998 (next to be held NA October
  2003)

  election results:  President Maumoon Abdul GAYOOM reelected; percent
  of popular vote - Maumoon Abdul GAYOOM 90.9%

Mali:
  chief of state:  President Alpha Oumar KONARE (since 8 June
  1992)

  head of government:  Prime Minister Mande SIDIBE (since September
  2000)

  cabinet:  Council of Ministers appointed by the prime minister

  elections:  president elected by popular vote for a five-year term;
  election last held 11 May 1997 (next to be held NA May 2002); prime
  minister appointed by the president

  election results:  Alpha Oumar KONARE reelected president; percent
  of vote - Alpha Oumar KONARE 95.9%, Mamadou DIABY 4.1%

Malta:
  chief of state:  President Guido DE MARCO (since 4 April 1999)

  head of government:  Prime Minister Eddie FENECH ADAMI (since 6
  September 1998); Deputy Prime Minister Lawrence GONZE (since 4 April
  1999)

  cabinet:  Cabinet appointed by the president on the advice of the
  prime minister

  elections:  president elected by the House of Representatives for a
  five-year term; election last held NA April 1999 (next to be held by
  NA April 2004); following legislative elections, the leader of the
  majority party or leader of a majority coalition is usually
  appointed prime minister by the president for a five-year term; the
  deputy prime minister is appointed by the president on the advice of
  the prime minister

  election results:  Guido DE MARCO elected president; percent of
  House of Representatives vote - 54%

Man, Isle of:
  chief of state:  Lord of Mann Queen ELIZABETH II
  (since 6 February 1952), represented by Lieutenant Governor His
  Excellency Sir Timothy DAUNT (since 27 October 1995)

  head of government:  Chief Minister Donald GELLING (since 3 December
  1996)

  cabinet:  Council of Ministers

  elections:  the monarch is hereditary; lieutenant governor appointed
  by the monarch for a five-year term; the Chief Minister is elected
  by the Tynwald; election last held 3 December 1996 (next to be held
  NA 2001)

  election results:  Donald GELLING elected chief minister by the
  Tynwald

Marshall Islands:
  chief of state:  President Kessai Hesa NOTE (since
  3 January 2000); note - the president is both the chief of state and
  head of government

  head of government:  President Kessai Hesa NOTE (since 3 January
  2000); note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
  government

  cabinet:  Cabinet selected by the president from among the members
  of Parliament

  elections:  president elected by Parliament from among its own
  members for a four-year term; election last held 15 November 1999
  (next to be held NA November 2003)

  election results:  Kessai Hesa NOTE elected president; percent of
  Parliament vote - 100%

Martinique:
  chief of state:  President Jacques CHIRAC of France
  (since 17 May 1995); Prefect Jean-Francois CORDET (since NA)

  head of government:  President of the General Council Claude LISE
  (since 22 March 1992); President of the Regional Council Alfred
  MARIE-JEANNE (since NA March 1998)

  cabinet:  NA

  elections:  French president elected by popular vote for a
  seven-year term; prefect appointed by the French president on the
  advice of the French Ministry of Interior; the presidents of the
  General and Regional Councils are elected by the members of those
  councils

Mauritania:
  chief of state:  President Col. Maaouya Ould Sid Ahmed
  TAYA (since 12 December 1984)

  head of government:  Prime Minister Cheik El Avia Ould Mohamed
  KHOUNA (since 17 November 1998)

  cabinet:  Council of Ministers

  elections:  president elected by popular vote for a six-year term;
  election last held 12 December 1997 (next to be held NA December
  2003); prime minister appointed by the president

  election results:  President Col. Maaouya Ould Sid Ahmed TAYA
  reelected with 90.9% of the vote

Mauritius:
  chief of state:  President Cassam UTEEM (since 1 July
  1992) and Vice President Angidi Verriah CHETTIAR (since 28 June 1997)

  head of government:  Prime Minister Sir Anerood JUGNAUTH (since 17
  September 2000) and Deputy Prime Minister Paul BERENGER (since 17
  September 2000)

  cabinet:  Council of Ministers appointed by the president on the
  recommendation of the prime minister

  elections:  president and vice president elected by the National
  Assembly for five-year terms; election last held 28 June 1997 (next
  to be held NA 2002); prime minister and deputy prime minister
  appointed by the president and are responsible to the National
  Assembly

  election results:  Cassam UTEEM reelected president and Angidi
  Verriah CHETTIAR elected vice president; percent of vote by the
  National Assembly - NA%

Mayotte:
  chief of state:  President Jacques CHIRAC of France (since
  17 May 1995), represented by Prefect Pierre BAYLE (since 15 July
  1998)

  head of government:  President of the General Council Younoussa
  BAMANA (since NA 1977)

  cabinet:  NA

  elections:  French president elected by popular vote for a
  seven-year term; prefect appointed by the French president on the
  advice of the French Ministry of the Interior; president of the
  General Council elected by the members of the General Council for a
  six-year term

Mexico:
  chief of state:  President Vicente FOX Quesada (since 1
  December 2000); note - the president is both the chief of state and
  head of government

  head of government:  President Vicente FOX Quesada (since 1 December
  2000); note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
  government

  cabinet:  Cabinet appointed by the president; note - appointment of
  attorney general requires consent of the Senate

  elections:  president elected by popular vote for a six-year term;
  election last held 2 July 2000 (next to be held NA July 2006)

  election results:  Vicente FOX Quesada elected president; percent of
  vote - Vicente FOX Quesada (PAN) 42.52%, Francisco LABASTIDA Ochoa
  (PRI) 36.1%, Cuauhtemoc CARDENAS Solorzano (PRD) 16.64%, other 4.74%

Micronesia, Federated States of:
  chief of state:  President Leo A.
  FALCAM (since 21 July 1999); Vice President Redley KILLION (since 21
  July 1999); note - the president is both the chief of state and head
  of government

  head of government:  President Leo A. FALCAM (since 21 July 1999);
  Vice President Redley KILLION (since 21 July 1999); note - the
  president is both the chief of state and head of government

  cabinet:  Cabinet

  elections:  president and vice president elected by Congress from
  among the four senators-at-large for four-year terms; election last
  held NA May 1999 (next to be held NA May 2003)

  election results:  Leo A. FALCAM elected president; percent of
  Congress vote - NA%; Redley KILLION elected vice president; percent
  of Congress vote - NA%

Moldova:
  chief of state:  President Vladimir VORONIN (since 4 April
  2001)

  head of government:  Prime Minister Vasile TARLEV (since 15 April
  2001), three Deputy Prime Ministers: Valerian CRISTEA, Andrei CUCU,
  and Dmitri TODOROGLO (all since 19 April 2001)

  cabinet:  selected by prime minister, subject to approval of
  Parliament

  elections:  president elected by Parliament for a four-year term;
  election last held 4 April 2001; presidential elections were
  scheduled for December 2000, but in July 2000, Parliament canceled
  direct popular elections; Parliament's failure to chose a new
  president in December 2000 led to early parliamentary elections
  (moved up a year to February 2001); according to the Moldovan
  constitution, the president, on consulting with Parliament, will
  designate a candidate for the office of prime minister; within 15
  days from designation, the prime minister-designate will request a
  vote of confidence from the Parliament regarding his/her work
  program and entire cabinet; prime minister designated on 15 April
  2001, cabinet received vote of confidence on 19 April 2001

  election results:  Vladimir VORONIN elected president; parliamentary
  votes - Vladimir VORONIN 71, Dumitru BRAGHIS 15, Valerian CHRISTEA
  3; Vasile TARLEV elected Prime Minister; parliamentary votes of
  confidence - 75 of 101

Monaco:
  chief of state:  Prince RAINIER III (since 9 May 1949); Heir
  Apparent Prince ALBERT Alexandre Louis Pierre, son of the monarch
  (born 14 March 1958)

  head of government:  Minister of State Patrick LECLERQUE (since 5
  January 2000)

  cabinet:  Council of Government is under the authority of the monarch

  elections:  none; the monarch is hereditary; minister of state
  appointed by the monarch from a list of three French national
  candidates presented by the French Government

Mongolia:
  chief of state:  President Natsagiyn BAGABANDI (since 20
  June 1997)

  head of government:  Prime Minister Nambaryn ENKHBAYAR (since 26
  July 2000)

  cabinet:  Cabinet appointed by the State Great Hural in consultation
  with the president

  elections:  president nominated by parties in the State Great Hural
  and elected by popular vote for a four-year term; election last held
  20 May 2001 (next to be held NA May 2005); following legislative
  elections, the leader of the majority party or majority coalition is
  usually elected prime minister by the State Great Hural; election
  last held 2 July 2000 (next to be held NA 2004)

  election results:  Natsagiyn BAGABANDI reelected president; percent
  of vote - NA%; Nambaryn ENKHBAYAR elected prime minister by a vote
  in the State Great Hural of 68 to 3

Montserrat:
  chief of state:  Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February
  1952), represented by Governor Anthony John ABBOTT (since NA
  September 1997)

  head of government:  Chief Minister David BRANDT (since 22 August
  1997)

  cabinet:  Executive Council consists of the governor, the chief
  minister, three other ministers, the attorney general, and the
  finance secretary

  elections:  the monarch is hereditary; governor appointed by the
  monarch; following legislative elections, the leader of the majority
  party usually becomes chief minister; note - as a result of the last
  election, a coalition party was formed between NPP, NDP, and one of
  the independent candidates

Morocco:
  chief of state:  King MOHAMED VI (since 23 July 1999)

  head of government:  Prime Minister Abderrahmane YOUSSOUFI (since 14
  March 1998)

  cabinet:  Council of Ministers appointed by the monarch

  elections:  none; the monarch is hereditary; prime minister
  appointed by the monarch following legislative elections

Mozambique:
  chief of state:  President Joaquim Alberto CHISSANO
  (since 6 November 1986); note - before being popularly elected,
  CHISSANO was elected president by Frelimo's Central Committee 4
  November 1986 (reelected by the Committee 30 July 1989)

  head of government:  Prime Minister Pascoal MOCUMBI (since NA
  December 1994)

  cabinet:  Cabinet

  elections:  president elected by popular vote for a five-year term;
  election last held 3-5 December 1999 (next to be held NA 2004);
  prime minister appointed by the president

  election results:  Joaquim Alberto CHISSANO reelected president;
  percent of vote - Joaquim Alberto CHISSANO 52.29%, Afonso DHLAKAMA
  47.71%

Namibia:
  chief of state:  President Sam Shafishuna NUJOMA (since 21
  March 1990); note - the president is both the chief of state and
  head of government

  head of government:  President Sam Shafishuna NUJOMA (since 21 March
  1990); note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
  government

  cabinet:  Cabinet appointed by the president from among the members
  of the National Assembly

  elections:  president elected by popular vote for a five-year term;
  election last held 30 November-1 December 1999 (next to be held NA
  2004)

  election results:  Sam Shafishuna NUJOMA elected president; percent
  of vote - Sam Shafishuna NUJOMA 77%

Nauru:
  chief of state:  President Bernard DOWIYOGO (since 19 April
  2000); note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
  government

  head of government:  President Bernard DOWIYOGO (since 19 April
  2000); note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
  government

  cabinet:  Cabinet appointed by the president from among the members
  of Parliament

  elections:  president elected by Parliament for a three-year term;
  election last held 8 April 2000 (next to be held NA 2003)

  election results:  Bernard DOWIYOGO elected president by a vote in
  Parliament of nine to eight

  note:  former President Rene HARRIS was deposed in a no-confidence
  vote; this is the eighth change of government in Nauru since the
  fall of the Lagumont HARRIS government in a no-confidence motion in
  early November 1996; six of the last eight governments have resulted
  because of parliamentary no-confidence motions

Nepal:
  chief of state:  King GYANENDRA Bir Bikram Shah (succeeded to
  the throne 4 June 2001 following the death of his nephew King
  DIPENDRA Bir Bikram Shah)

  head of government:  Prime Minister Girija Prasad KOIRALA (since 22
  March 2000)

  cabinet:  Cabinet appointed by the monarch on the recommendation of
  the prime minister

  elections:  none; the monarch is hereditary; following legislative
  elections, the leader of the majority party or leader of a majority
  coalition is usually appointed prime minister by the monarch

  note:  King BIRENDRA Bir Bikram Shah Dev died in a bloody shooting
  at the royal palace on 1 June 2001 that also claimed the lives of
  most of the royal family; King BIRENDRA's son, Crown Price DIPENDRA,
  is believed to have been responsible for the shootings before
  fatally wounding himself; immediately following the shootings and
  while still clinging to life, DIPENDRA was crowned king; he died
  three days later and was succeeded by his uncle

Netherlands:
  chief of state:  Queen BEATRIX (since 30 April 1980);
  Heir Apparent WILLEM-ALEXANDER (born 27 April 1967), son of the
  monarch

  head of government:  Prime Minister Wim KOK (since 22 August 1994)
  and Vice Prime Ministers Annemarie JORRITSMA (since 3 August 1998)
  and Els BORST-EILERS (since 3 August 1998)

  cabinet:  Council of Ministers appointed by the monarch

  elections:  none; the monarch is hereditary; following Second
  Chamber elections, the leader of the majority party or leader of a
  majority coalition is usually appointed prime minister by the
  monarch; vice prime ministers appointed by the monarch

  note:  government coalition - PvdA, VVD, and D'66; there is also a
  Council of State composed of the monarch, heir apparent, and
  councilors consulted by the executive on legislative and
  administrative policy

Netherlands Antilles:
  chief of state:  Queen BEATRIX of the
  Netherlands (since 30 April 1980), represented by Governor General
  Jaime SALEH (since NA October 1989)

  head of government:  Prime Minister Miguel POURIER (since 8 November
  1999); Deputy Prime Minister Susanne CAMELIA-ROMER (since NA)

  note:  Miguel POURIER assumed prime ministership following the
  resignation of Susanne CAMELIA-ROMER

  cabinet:  Council of Ministers elected by the Staten

  elections:  the monarch is hereditary; governor general appointed by
  the monarch for a six-year term; following legislative elections,
  the leader of the majority party is usually elected prime minister
  by the Staten; election last held 30 January 1998 (next to be held
  by NA 2002)

  note:  government coalition - PDB, DP-St. M, FOL, PLKP, PNP

New Caledonia:
  chief of state:  President of France Jacques CHIRAC
  (since 17 May 1995), represented by High Commissioner Thierry
  LATASTE (since 19 July 1999)

  head of government:  President of the Government Jean LEQUES (since
  28 May 1999)

  cabinet:  Consultative Committee

  elections:  French president elected by popular vote for a
  seven-year term; high commissioner appointed by the French president
  on the advice of the French Ministry of Interior; president of the
  government elected by the members of the Territorial Congress

New Zealand:
  chief of state:  Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February
  1952), represented by Governor General Dame Silvia CARTWRIGHT (since
  4 April 2001)

  head of government:  Prime Minister Helen CLARK (since 10 December
  1999) and Deputy Prime Minister Jim ANDERTON (since 10 December 1999)

  cabinet:  Executive Council appointed by the governor general on the
  recommendation of the prime minister

  elections:  none; the monarch is hereditary; governor general
  appointed by the monarch; following legislative elections, the
  leader of the majority party or the leader of a majority coalition
  is usually appointed prime minister by the governor general for a
  three-year term; deputy prime minister appointed by the governor
  general

Nicaragua:
  chief of state:  President Arnoldo ALEMAN Lacayo (since
  10 January 1997); Vice President Leopoldo NAVARRO (since 24 October
  2000); note - the president is both chief of state and head of
  government

  head of government:  President Arnoldo ALEMAN Lacayo (since 10
  January 1997); Vice President Leopoldo NAVARRO (since 24 October
  2000); note - the president is both chief of state and head of
  government

  cabinet:  Council of Ministers appointed by the president

  elections:  president and vice president elected on the same ticket
  by popular vote for a five-year term; election last held 20 October
  1996 (next to be held 4 November 2001); note - in July 1995 the term
  of the office of the president was amended to five years

  election results:  Arnoldo ALEMAN Lacayo (Liberal Alliance - ruling
  party - includes PLC, PALI, PLIUN, and PUCA) 51.03%, Daniel ORTEGA
  Saavedra (FSLN) 37.75%, Guillermo OSORNO (PCCN) 4.10%, Noel VIDAURRE
  (PCN) 2.26%, Benjamin LANZAS (PRONAL) 0.53%, other (18 other
  candidates) 4.33%

Niger:
  chief of state:  President Mamadou TANDJA (since 22 December
  1999); note - the president is both chief of state and head of
  government

  head of government:  President Mamadou TANDJA (since 22 December
  1999); note - the president is both chief of state and head of
  government; Prime Minister Hama AMADOU (since 31 December 1999) was
  appointed by the president and shares some executive
  responsibilities with the president

  note:  President Ibrahim BARE was assassinated on 9 April 1999;
  subsequent elections were held under the nine-month provisional
  government of Major Daouda Mallam WANKE

  cabinet:  23-member cabinet appointed by President TANDJA

  elections:  president elected by popular vote for a five-year term;
  last held 24 November 1999 (next to be held NA 2004)

  election results:  Mamadou TANDJA elected president; percent of vote
  - Mamadou TANDJA 59.9%, Mahamadou ISSOUFOU 40.1%

Nigeria:
  chief of state:  President Olusegun OBASANJO (since 29 May
  1999); note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
  government

  head of government:  President Olusegun OBASANJO (since 29 May
  1999); note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
  government

  cabinet:  Federal Executive Council

  elections:  president is elected by popular vote for no more than
  two four-year terms; election last held 27 February 1999 (next to be
  held NA 2003)

  election results:  Olusegun OBASANJO elected president; percent of
  vote - Olusegun OBASANJO (PDP) 62.8%, Olu FALAE (APP-AD) 37.2%

Niue:
  chief of state:  Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February 1952);
  the UK and New Zealand are represented by New Zealand High
  Commissioner John BRYAN (since NA May 2000)

  head of government:  Premier Sani LAKATANI (since 1 April 1999)

  cabinet:  Cabinet consists of the premier and three ministers

  elections:  the monarch is hereditary; premier elected by the
  Legislative Assembly for a three-year term; election last held 19
  March 1999 (next to be held NA March 2002)

  election results:  Sani LAKATANI elected premier; percent of
  Legislative Assembly vote - NA%

Norfolk Island:
  chief of state:  Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6
  February 1952); the UK and Australia are represented by
  Administrator Anthony J. MESSNER (since 4 August 1997)

  head of government:  Assembly President and Chief Minister Ronald
  Coane NOBBS (since 23 February 2000)

  cabinet:  Executive Council is made up of four of the nine members
  of the Legislative Assembly; the council devises government policy
  and acts as an advisor to the Administrator

  elections:  the monarch is hereditary; administrator appointed by
  the governor general of Australia; chief minister elected by the
  Legislative Assembly for a term of not more than three years;
  election last held 23 February 2000 (next to be held by March 2003)

  election results:  Ronald Coane NOBBS elected chief minister;
  percent of Legislative Assembly vote - NA%

Northern Mariana Islands:
  chief of state:  President George W. BUSH
  of the US (since 20 January 2001); Vice President Richard B. CHENEY
  (since 20 January 2001)

  head of government:  Governor Pedro P. TENORIO (since NA January
  1998) and Lieutenant Governor Jesus R. SABLAN (since NA January 1998)

  cabinet:  NA

  elections:  US president and vice president elected on the same
  ticket for four-year terms; governor and lieutenant governor elected
  on the same ticket by popular vote for four-year terms; election
  last held in NA November 1997 (next to be held NA November 2001)

  election results:  Pedro P. TENORIO elected governor in a three-way
  race; percent of vote - Pedro P. TENORIO (Republican Party) 47%

Norway:
  chief of state:  King HARALD V (since 17 January 1991); Heir
  Apparent Crown Prince HAAKON MAGNUS, son of the monarch (born 20
  July 1973)

  head of government:  Prime Minister Jens STOLTENBERG (since 17 March
  2000)

  cabinet:  State Council appointed by the monarch with the approval
  of the Parliament

  elections:  none; the monarch is hereditary; following parliamentary
  elections, the leader of the largest party or leader of a coalition
  is usually appointed prime minister by the monarch with the approval
  of the Parliament

Oman:
  chief of state:  Sultan and Prime Minister QABOOS bin Said Al
  Said (since 23 July 1970); note - the monarch is both the chief of
  state and head of government

  head of government:  Sultan and Prime Minister QABOOS bin Said Al
  Said (since 23 July 1970); note - the monarch is both the chief of
  state and head of government

  cabinet:  Cabinet appointed by the monarch

  elections:  none; the monarch is hereditary

Pakistan:
  note:  following a military takeover on 12 October 1999,
  Chief of Army Staff and Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff
  Committee, Gen. Pervez MUSHARRAF suspended Pakistan's constitution
  and assumed the additional title of Chief Executive; exercising the
  powers of the head of the government, he appointed an eight-member
  National Security Council to function as Pakistan's supreme
  governing body; President Mohammad Rafiq TARAR remains the
  ceremonial chief of state; on 12 May 2000, Pakistan's Supreme Court
  unanimously validated the October 1999 coup and granted MUSHARRAF
  executive and legislative authority for three years from the coup
  date

  chief of state:  President Mohammad Rafiq TARAR (since 31 December
  1997)

  head of government:  Chief Executive Gen. Pervez MUSHARRAF (since 12
  October 1999)

  cabinet:  Cabinet appointed by the chief executive

  elections:  president elected by Parliament for a five-year term;
  election last held 31 December 1997 (next to be held NA 2002);
  following legislative elections, the leader of the majority party or
  leader of a majority coalition is usually elected prime minister by
  the National Assembly; election last held 3 February 1997 (next to
  be held NA); note - Gen. Pervez MUSHARRAF overthrew the government
  of Prime Minister Mohammad Nawaz SHARIF in the military takeover of
  12 October 1999; in May 2000, the Supreme Court validated the
  October 1999 coup and set a three-year limit in office for Chief
  Executive MUSHARRAF

  election results:  Rafiq TARAR elected president; percent of
  Parliament and provincial vote - NA%; results are for the last
  election for prime minister prior to the military takeover of 12
  October 1999 - Mohammad Nawaz SHARIF elected prime minister; percent
  of National Assembly vote - NA%

Palau:
  chief of state:  President Tommy Esang REMENGESAU Jr. (since
  19 January 2001) and Vice President Sandra PIERANTOZZI (since 19
  January 2001); note - the president is both the chief of state and
  head of government

  head of government:  President Tommy Esang REMENGESAU Jr. (since 19
  January 2001) and Vice President Sandra PIERANTOZZI (since 19
  January 2001); note - the president is both the chief of state and
  head of government

  cabinet:  Cabinet

  elections:  president and vice president elected on separate tickets
  by popular vote for four-year terms; election last held 7 November
  2000 (next to be held NA November 2004)

  election results:  Tommy Esang REMENGESAU Jr. elected president;
  percent of vote - Tommy Esang REMENGESAU Jr. 53%, Peter SUGIYAMA
  46%; Sandra PIERANTOZZI elected vice president; percent of vote -
  Sandra PIERANTOZZI 52%, Alan SEID 45%

Panama:
  chief of state:  President Mireya Elisa MOSCOSO Rodriguez
  (since 1 September 1999); First Vice President Arturo Ulises
  VALLARINO (since 1 September 1999); Second Vice President Dominador
  "Kaiser" Baldonero BAZAN Jimenez (since 1 September 1999); note -
  the president is both the chief of state and head of government

  head of government:  President Mireya Elisa MOSCOSO Rodriguez (since
  1 September 1999); First Vice President Arturo Ulises VALLARINO
  (since 1 September 1999); Second Vice President Dominador "Kaiser"
  Baldonero BAZAN Jimenez (since 1 September 1999); note - the
  president is both the chief of state and head of government

  cabinet:  Cabinet appointed by the president

  elections:  president and vice presidents elected on the same ticket
  by popular vote for five-year terms; election last held 2 May 1999
  (next to be held NA May 2004)

  election results:  Mireya Elisa MOSCOSO Rodriguez elected president;
  percent of vote - Mireya Elisa MOSCOSO Rodriguez (PA) 44%, Martin
  TORRIJOS (PRD) 37%

  note:  government coalition - PA, MOLIRENA, Democratic Change,
  MORENA, PLN, PS

Papua New Guinea:
  chief of state:  Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6
  February 1952), represented by Governor General Silas ATOPARE (since
  13 November 1997)

  head of government:  Prime Minister Mekere MORAUTA (since NA August
  1999); Deputy Prime Minister Michael OGIO (since 3 November 2000)

  cabinet:  National Executive Council appointed by the governor
  general on the recommendation of the prime minister

  elections:  none; the monarch is hereditary; governor general
  appointed by the National Executive Council; prime minister and
  deputy prime minister appointed by the governor general for up to
  five years on the basis of majority support in National Parliament

Paraguay:
  chief of state:  President Luis GONZALEZ MACCHI (since 28
  March 1999); vice president Julio Cesar FRANCO (since NA August
  2000); note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
  government

  head of government:  President Luis GONZALEZ MACCHI (since 28 March
  1999); vice president Julio Cesar FRANCO (since NA August 2000);
  note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
  government

  cabinet:  Council of Ministers nominated by the president

  elections:  president and vice president elected on the same ticket
  by popular vote for five-year terms; election last held 10 May 1998
  (next to be held NA May 2003)

  election results:  Raul CUBAS Grau elected president; percent of
  vote - 55.3%; resigned 28 March 1999

  note:  President Luis GONZALEZ MACCHI, formerly president of the
  Chamber of Senators, constitutionally succeeded President Raul CUBAS
  Grau, who resigned after being impeached soon after the
  assassination of Vice President Luis Maria ARGANA; the successor to
  ARGANA was decided in an election held in August 2000

Peru:
  chief of state:  President Alejandro TOLEDO (since 28 July
  2001); note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
  government; additionally two vice presidents are provided for by the
  Constitution, First Vice President Raul DIEZ Conseco (since 28 July
  2001) and Second Vice President David WAISMAN (since 28 July 2001)

  head of government:  President Alejandro TOLEDO (since 28 July
  2001); note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
  government; additionally two vice presidents are provided for by the
  Constitution, First Vice President Raul DIEZ Conseco (since 28 July
  2001) and Second Vice President David WAISMAN (since 28 July 2001)

  note:  Prime Minister Roberto DANINO (since 28 July 2001) does not
  exercise executive power; this power is in the hands of the president

  cabinet:  Council of Ministers appointed by the president

  elections:  president elected by popular vote for a five-year term;
  special presidential election held 8 April 2001 with runoff election
  3 June 2001); next to be held NA 2006

  election results:  President TOLEDO elected in runoff election;
  percent of vote - Alejandro TOLEDO 53.1%, Alan GARCIA 46.9%

Philippines:
  chief of state:  President Gloria MACAPAGAL-ARROYO
  (since 20 January 2001); note - the president is both the chief of
  state and head of government

  head of government:  President Gloria MACAPAGAL-ARROYO (since 20
  January 2001); note - the president is both the chief of state and
  head of government

  cabinet:  Cabinet appointed by the president with the consent of the
  Commission of Appointments

  elections:  president and vice president elected on separate tickets
  by popular vote for six-year terms; election last held 11 May 1998
  (next to be held 16 May 2004)

  election results:  results of the last presidential election -
  Joseph Ejercito ESTRADA elected president; percent of vote -
  approximately 40%; Gloria MACAPAGAL-ARROYO elected vice president;
  percent of vote - NA%; note - on 20 January 2001, Vice President
  Gloria MACAPAGAL-ARROYO was sworn in as the constitutional successor
  to President Joseph ESTRADA after the Supreme Court declared that
  President ESTRADA was unable to rule in view of the mass
  resignations from his government; according to the Constitution,
  only in cases of death, permanent disability, removal from office,
  or resignation of the president, can the vice president serve for
  the unexpired term

Pitcairn Islands:
  chief of state:  Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6
  February 1952), represented by UK High Commissioner to New Zealand
  and Governor (nonresident) of the Pitcairn Islands Martin WILLIAMS
  (since NA May 1998); Commissioner (nonresident) Leon SALT (since NA;
  is the liaison person between the governor and the Island Council)

  head of government:  Island Magistrate and Chairman of the Island
  Council Jay WARREN (since NA)

  cabinet:  NA

  elections:  the monarch is hereditary; high commissioner and
  commissioner appointed by the monarch; island magistrate elected
  every three years in December by popular vote for a three-year term;
  last election held NA December 1999 (next to be held NA December
  2002)

  election results:  Lea BROWN elected island magistrate; percent of
  vote - NA%

Poland:
  chief of state:  President Aleksander KWASNIEWSKI (since 23
  December 1995)

  head of government:  Prime Minister Jerzy BUZEK - Solidarity
  Electoral Union - (since 31 October 1997), Deputy Prime Ministers
  Janusz STEINHOFF (since 12 June 2000), Longin KOMOLOWSKI (since 19
  October 1999)

  cabinet:  Council of Ministers responsible to the prime minister and
  the Sejm; the prime minister proposes, the president appoints, and
  the Sejm approves the Council of Ministers

  elections:  president elected by popular vote for a five-year term;
  election held 8 October 2000 (next to be held NA October 2005);
  prime minister and deputy prime ministers appointed by the president
  and confirmed by the Sejm

  election results:  Aleksander KWASNIEWSKI reelected president;
  percent of popular vote - Aleksander KWASNIEWSKI 53.9%, Andrzj
  OLECHOWSKI 17.3%, Marian KRZAKLEWSKI 15.6%, Lech WALESA 1%

Portugal:
  chief of state:  President Jorge SAMPAIO (since 9 March
  1996)

  head of government:  Prime Minister Antonio Manuel de Oliviera
  GUTERRES (since 28 October 1995)

  cabinet:  Council of Ministers appointed by the president on the
  recommendation of the prime minister

  note:  there is also a Council of State that acts as a consultative
  body to the president

  elections:  president elected by popular vote for a five-year term;
  election last held 14 January 2001 (next to be held NA January
  2006); following legislative elections, the leader of the majority
  party or leader of a majority coalition is usually appointed prime
  minister by the president

  election results:  Jorge SAMPAIO re-elected president; percent of
  vote - Jorge SAMPAIO (Socialist) 55.8%, Joaquim FERREIRA Do Amaral
  (Social Democrat) 34.5%, Antonio ABREU (Communist) 5.1%

Puerto Rico:
  chief of state:  President George W. BUSH of the US
  (since 20 January 2001); Vice President Richard B. CHENEY (since 20
  January 2001)

  head of government:  Governor Sila M. CALDERON (since NA January
  2001)

  cabinet:  appointed by the governor with the consent of the
  legislature

  elections:  US president and vice president elected on the same
  ticket for four-year terms; governor elected by popular vote for a
  four-year term; election last held 7 November 2000 (next to be held
  NA November 2004)

  election results:  Sila M. CALDERON (PDP) elected governor; percent
  of vote - 48.8%

Qatar:
  chief of state:  Amir HAMAD bin Khalifa Al Thani (since 27
  June 1995 when, as crown prince, he ousted his father, Amir KHALIFA
  bin Hamad Al Thani, in a bloodless coup); Crown Prince JASSIM bin
  Hamad bin Khalifa Al Thani, third son of the monarch (selected crown
  prince by the monarch 22 October 1996); note - Amir HAMAD also holds
  the positions of minister of defense and commander-in-chief of the
  armed forces

  head of government:  Prime Minister ABDALLAH bin Khalifa Al Thani,
  brother of the monarch (since 30 October 1996); Deputy Prime
  Minister MUHAMMAD bin Khalifa Al Thani, brother of the monarch
  (since 20 January 1998)

  cabinet:  Council of Ministers appointed by the monarch

  elections:  none; the monarch is hereditary

  note:  in March 1999 Qatar held nationwide elections for a 29-member
  Central Municipal Council, which has consultative powers aimed at
  improving the provision of municipal services

Reunion:
  chief of state:  President Jacques CHIRAC of France (since
  17 May 1995), represented by Prefect Robert POMMIES (since NA 1996)

  head of government:  President of the General Council Jean-Luc
  POUDROUX (since NA March 1998) and President of the Regional Council
  Paul VERGES (since NA March 1993)

  cabinet:  NA

  elections:  French president elected by popular vote for a
  seven-year term; prefect appointed by the French president on the
  advice of the French Ministry of the Interior; the presidents of the
  General and Regional Councils are elected by the members of those
  councils

Romania:
  chief of state:  President Ion ILIESCU (since 20 December
  2000)

  head of government:  Prime Minister Adrian NASTASE (since 29
  December 2000)

  cabinet:  Council of Ministers appointed by the prime minister

  elections:  president elected by popular vote for a four-year term;
  election last held 26 November 2000, with runoff between the top two
  candidates held 10 December 2000 (next to be held NA
  November/December 2004); prime minister appointed by the president

  election results:  percent of vote - Ion ILIESCU 66.84%, Corneliu
  Vadim TUDOR 33.16%

Russia:
  chief of state:  President Vladimir Vladimirovich PUTIN
  (acting president since 31 December 1999, president since 7 May 2000)

  head of government:  Premier Mikhail Mikhaylovich KASYANOV (since 7
  May 2000); First Deputy Premier Aleksey Leonidovich KUDRIN (since 18
  May 2000), Deputy Premiers Aleksey Vasilyevich GORDEYEV (since 20
  May 2000), Viktor Borisovich KHRISTENKO (since 31 May 1999), Ilya
  Iosifovich KLEBANOV (since 31 May 1999), Valentina Ivanovna
  MATVIYENKO (since 22 September 1998)

  cabinet:  Ministries of the Government or "Government" composed of
  the premier and his deputies, ministers, and other agency heads; all
  are appointed by the president

  note:  there is also a Presidential Administration (PA) that
  provides staff and policy support to the president, drafts
  presidential decrees, and coordinates policy among government
  agencies; a Security Council also reports directly to the president

  elections:  president elected by popular vote for a four-year term;
  election last held 26 March 2000 (next to be held NA 2004); note -
  no vice president; if the president dies in office, cannot exercise
  his powers because of ill health, is impeached, or resigns, the
  premier succeeds him; the premier serves as acting president until a
  new presidential election is held, which must be within three
  months; premier appointed by the president with the approval of the
  Duma

  election results:  Vladimir Vladimirovich PUTIN elected president;
  percent of vote - PUTIN 52.9%, Gennadiy Aadreyevich ZYUGANOV 29.2%,
  Grigoriy Alekseyevich YAVLINSKIY 5.8%

Rwanda:
  chief of state:  President Maj. Gen. Paul KAGAME (FPR)
  (since 22 April 2000)

  head of government:  Prime Minister Bernard MAKUZA (since 8 March
  2000)

  cabinet:  Council of Ministers appointed by the president

  elections:  normally the president is elected by popular vote for a
  five-year term; special election for new president by deputies of
  the National Assembly and governmental ministers held 17 April 2000
  (next national election to be held NA 2003); prime minister is
  appointed by the president

  election results:  Paul KAGAME (FPR) elected president in a special
  parliamentary/ministerial ballot receiving 81 of a possible 86 votes

Saint Helena:
  chief of state:  Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February
  1952)

  head of government:  Governor and Commander in Chief David HOLLAMBY
  (since NA June 1999)

  cabinet:  Executive Council consists of the governor, two ex officio
  officers, and six elected members of the Legislative Council

  elections:  none; the monarch is hereditary; governor is appointed
  by the monarch

Saint Kitts and Nevis:
  chief of state:  Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6
  February 1952), represented by Governor General Perlette LOUISY
  (since September 1997)

  head of government:  Prime Minister Dr. Denzil DOUGLAS (since 6 July
  1995) and Deputy Prime Minister Sam CONDOR (since 6 July 1995)

  cabinet:  Cabinet appointed by the governor general in consultation
  with the prime minister

  elections:  none; the monarch is hereditary; the governor general is
  appointed by the monarch; following legislative elections, the
  leader of the majority party or leader of a majority coalition is
  usually appointed prime minister by the governor general; deputy
  prime minister appointed by the governor general

Saint Lucia:
  chief of state:  Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February
  1952), represented by Governor General Dr. Perlette LOUISY (since
  September 1997)

  head of government:  Prime Minister Kenneth ANTHONY (since 24 May
  1997) and Deputy Prime Minister Mario MICHEL (since 24 May 1997)

  cabinet:  Cabinet appointed by the governor general on the advice of
  the prime minister

  elections:  none; the monarch is hereditary; the governor general is
  appointed by the monarch; following legislative elections, the
  leader of the majority party or leader of a majority coalition is
  usually appointed prime minister by the governor general

Saint Pierre and Miquelon:
  chief of state:  President Jacques CHIRAC
  of France (since 17 May 1995), represented by Prefect Remi THUAU
  (since NA)

  head of government:  President of the General Council Bernard LE
  SOAVEC (since NA 1996)

  cabinet:  NA

  elections:  French president elected by popular vote for a
  seven-year term; election last held 7 May 1995 (next to be held NA
  May 2002); prefect appointed by the French president on the advice
  of the French Ministry of Interior; president of the General Council
  is elected by the members of the council

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:
  chief of state:  Queen ELIZABETH
  II (since 6 February 1952), represented by Governor General David
  JACK (since 29 September 1989)

  head of government:  Prime Minister Ralph GONSALVES (since 29 March
  2001)

  cabinet:  Cabinet appointed by the governor general on the advice of
  the prime minister

  elections:  none; the monarch is hereditary; the governor general is
  appointed by the monarch; following legislative elections, the
  leader of the majority party is usually appointed prime minister by
  the governor general; deputy prime minister appointed by the
  governor general on the advice of the prime minister

Samoa:
  chief of state:  Chief Susuga MALIETOA Tanumafili II (cochief
  of state from 1 January 1962 until becoming sole chief of state 5
  April 1963)

  head of government:  Prime Minister TUILA'EPA Sailele Malielegaoi
  (since 24 November 1998); note - TUILA'EPA served as deputy prime
  minister since 1992; he assumed the prime ministership in November
  1998 when former Prime Minister TOFILAU Eti Alesana resigned in poor
  health; the post of deputy prime minister is currently vacant

  cabinet:  Cabinet consists of 12 members, appointed by the chief of
  state with the prime minister's advice

  elections:  upon the death of Chief Susuga MALIETOA Tanumafili II, a
  new chief of state will be elected by the Legislative Assembly to
  serve a five-year term; prime minister appointed by the chief of
  state with the approval of the Legislative Assembly

San Marino:
  chief of state:  cochiefs of state Captain Regent Luigi
  LONFERNINI and Captain Regent Fabio BERARDI (for the period 1 April
  2001-30 September 2001)

  head of government:  Secretary of State for Foreign and Political
  Affairs Gabriele GATTI (since NA July 1986)

  cabinet:  Congress of State elected by the Great and General Council
  for a five-year term

  elections:  cochiefs of state (captain regents) elected by the Great
  and General Council for a six-month term; election last held NA
  March 2001 (next to be held NA September 2001); secretary of state
  for foreign and political affairs elected by the Great and General
  Council for a five-year term; election last held NA June 1998 (next
  to be held NA June 2003)

  election results:  Luigi LONFERNINI and Fabio BERARDI elected
  captain regents; percent of legislative vote - NA; Gabriele GATTI
  reelected secretary of state for foreign and political affairs;
  percent of legislative vote - NA

  note:  the popularly elected parliament (Grand and General Council)
  selects two of its members to serve as the Captains Regent (cochiefs
  of state) for a six-month period; they preside over meetings of the
  Grand and General Council and its cabinet (Congress of State) which
  has ten other members, all selected by the Grand and General
  Council; assisting the captains regent are three secretaries of
  state - Foreign Affairs, Internal Affairs, and Finance - and several
  additional secretaries; the secretary of state for Foreign Affairs
  has assumed many of the prerogatives of a prime minister

Sao Tome and Principe:
  chief of state:  President Miguel TROVOADA
  (since 4 April 1991)

  head of government:  Prime Minister Guilherma Posser da COSTA (since
  30 December 1998)

  cabinet:  Council of Ministers appointed by the president on the
  proposal of the prime minister

  elections:  president elected by popular vote for a five-year term;
  election last held 30 June and 21 July 1996 (next to be held NA July
  2001); prime minister chosen by the National Assembly and approved
  by the president

  election results:  Miguel TROVOADA reelected president in Sao Tome's
  second multiparty presidential election; percent of vote - Miguel
  TROVOADA 52.74%, Manuel Pinto da COSTA 47.26%

Saudi Arabia:
  chief of state:  King and Prime Minister FAHD bin Abd
  al-Aziz Al Saud (since 13 June 1982); Crown Prince and First Deputy
  Prime Minister ABDALLAH bin Abd al-Aziz Al Saud (half-brother to the
  monarch, heir to the throne since 13 June 1982, regent from 1
  January to 22 February 1996); note - the monarch is both the chief
  of state and head of government

  head of government:  King and Prime Minister FAHD bin Abd al-Aziz Al
  Saud (since 13 June 1982); Crown Prince and First Deputy Prime
  Minister ABDALLAH bin Abd al-Aziz Al Saud (half-brother to the
  monarch, heir to the throne since 13 June 1982, regent from 1
  January to 22 February 1996); note - the monarch is both the chief
  of state and head of government

  cabinet:  Council of Ministers is appointed by the monarch and
  includes many royal family members

  elections:  none; the monarch is hereditary

Senegal:
  chief of state:  President Abdoulaye WADE (since 1 April
  2000)

  head of government:  Prime Minister Madior BOYE (since 3 March 2001)

  cabinet:  Council of Ministers appointed by the prime minister in
  consultation with the president

  elections:  president elected by popular vote for a seven-year term;
  election last held 27 February and 19 March 2000 (next to be held 27
  February 2007); prime minister appointed by the president

  election results:  Abdoulaye WADE elected president; percent of vote
  in the second round of voting - Abdoulaye WADE (PDS) 58.49%, Abdou
  DIOUF (PS) 41.51%

Seychelles:
  chief of state:  President France Albert RENE (since 5
  June 1977); note - the president is both the chief of state and head
  of government

  head of government:  President France Albert RENE (since 5 June
  1977); note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
  government

  cabinet:  Council of Ministers appointed by the president

  elections:  president elected by popular vote for a five-year term;
  election last held 20-22 March 1998 (next to be held by NA 2003)

  election results:  France Albert RENE reelected president; percent
  of vote - France Albert RENE (SPPF) 66.7%, Wavel RAMKALAWAN (UO)
  19.5%, Sir James MANCHAM (DP) 13.8%

Sierra Leone:
  chief of state:  President Ahmad Tejan KABBAH (since
  29 March 1996, reinstated 10 March 1998); note - the president is
  both the chief of state and head of government

  head of government:  President Ahmad Tejan KABBAH (since 29 March
  1996, reinstated 10 March 1998); note - the president is both the
  chief of state and head of government

  cabinet:  Ministers of State appointed by the president with the
  approval of the House of Representatives; the cabinet is responsible
  to the president

  elections:  president elected by popular vote for a five-year term;
  election held 26-27 February and 15 March 1996 (next to be held NA
  September 2001); note - president's tenure of office is limited to
  two five-year terms

  election results:  Ahmad Tejan KABBAH elected president; percent of
  vote - Ahmad Tejan KABBAH (SLPP) 59.5%, John KAREFA-SMART (UNPP)
  40.5%

Singapore:
  chief of state:  President Sellapan Rama (S. R.) NATHAN
  (since 1 September 1999)

  head of government:  Prime Minister GOH Chok Tong (since 28 November
  1990) and Deputy Prime Ministers LEE Hsien Loong (since 28 November
  1990) and Tony TAN Keng Yam (since 1 August 1995)

  cabinet:  Cabinet appointed by the president, responsible to
  Parliament

  elections:  president elected by popular vote for a six-year term;
  election last held 28 August 1999 (next to be held NA August 2005);
  following legislative elections, the leader of the majority party or
  the leader of a majority coalition is usually appointed prime
  minister by the president; deputy prime ministers appointed by the
  president

  election results:  Sellapan Rama (S. R.) NATHAN elected president
  unopposed

Slovakia:
  chief of state:  President Rudolf SCHUSTER (since 15 June
  1999)

  head of government:  Prime Minister Mikulas DZURINDA (since 30
  October 1998)

  cabinet:  Cabinet appointed by the president on the recommendation
  of the prime minister

  elections:  president elected by direct popular vote for a five-year
  term; election last held 29 May 1999 (next to be held NA May/June
  2004); following National Council elections, the leader of the
  majority party or the leader of a majority coalition is usually
  appointed prime minister by the president

  election results:  Rudolf SCHUSTER elected president in the first
  direct, popular election; percent of vote - Rudolf SCHUSTER 57%

  note:  government coalition - SDK, SDL, SMK, SOP, KDH

Slovenia:
  chief of state:  President Milan KUCAN (since 22 April
  1990)

  head of government:  Prime Minister Janez DRNOVSEK (since 15 October
  2000);

  cabinet:  Council of Ministers nominated by the prime minister and
  elected by the National Assembly

  elections:  president elected by popular vote for a five-year term;
  election last held 24 November 1997 (next to be held NA 2002);
  following National Assembly elections, the leader of the majority
  party or the leader of a majority coalition is usually nominated to
  become prime minister by the president and elected by the National
  Assembly; election last held 15 October 2000 (next to be held NA
  October 2004)

  election results:  Milan KUCAN elected president; percent of vote -
  Milan KUCAN 56.3%, Janez PODOBNIK 18%; Janez DRNOVSEK elected prime
  minister; percent of National Assembly vote - NA

Solomon Islands:
  chief of state:  Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6
  February 1952), represented by Governor General Father John LAPLI
  (since NA 1999)

  head of government:  Prime Minister Mannaseh Damukana SOGAVARE
  (since 1 July 2000); Assistant Prime Minister Nathaniel WAENA (since
  1 July 2000); Deputy Prime Minister Allan KEMAKEZA (since 1 July
  2000); note - Prime Minister Bartholomew ULUFA'ALU was forced to
  resign his position in June 2000 following the armed takeover of the
  capital by elements supporting the opposition parties; Mannaseh
  Damukana SOGAVARE, who had been opposition leader, was then elected
  prime minister at a sitting of National Parliament on 30 June 2000

  cabinet:  Cabinet appointed by the governor general on the advice of
  the prime minister from among the members of Parliament

  elections:  none; the monarch is hereditary; governor general
  appointed by the monarch on the advice of Parliament for up to five
  years; following legislative elections, the leader of the majority
  party or the leader of a majority coalition is usually elected prime
  minister by Parliament; deputy prime minister appointed by the
  governor general on the advice of the prime minister from among the
  members of Parliament

Somalia:
  chief of state:  ABDIKASSIM Salad Hassan (since 26 August
  2000); note - Interim President ABDIKASSIM was chosen for a
  three-year term by a 245-member National Assembly serving as a
  transitional government; the present political situation is still
  unstable, particularly in the south, with interclan fighting and
  random banditry

  head of government:  ALI Khalifa Galaydh, appointed by the president
  8 October 2000

  cabinet:  appointed by the prime minister and sworn in on 20 October
  2000

  election results:  ABDIKASSIM Salad Hassan was elected president of
  an interim government at the Djibouti-sponsored Arta Peace
  Conference on 26 August 2000 by a broad representation of Somali
  clans that comprised a transitional National Assembly.

South Africa:
  chief of state:  President Thabo MBEKI (since 16 June
  1999); Executive Deputy President Jacob ZUMA (since 17 June 1999);
  note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
  government

  head of government:  President Thabo MBEKI (since 16 June 1999);
  Executive Deputy President Jacob ZUMA (since 17 June 1999); note -
  the president is both the chief of state and head of government

  cabinet:  Cabinet appointed by the president

  elections:  president elected by the National Assembly for a
  five-year term; election last held 2 June 1999 (next scheduled for
  sometime between May and July 2004)

  election results:  Thabo MBEKI elected president; percent of
  National Assembly vote - 100% (by acclamation)

  note:  ANC-IFP governing coalition

Spain:
  chief of state:  King JUAN CARLOS I (since 22 November 1975);
  Heir Apparent Prince FELIPE, son of the monarch, born 30 January 1968

  head of government:  President of the Government Jose Maria AZNAR
  Lopez (since 5 May 1996); First Vice President Juan Jose LUCAS
  (since 28 February 2000) and Second Vice President (and Minister of
  Economy) Rodrigo RATO Figaredo (since 5 May 1996)

  cabinet:  Council of Ministers designated by the president

  note:  there is also a Council of State that is the supreme
  consultative organ of the government

  elections:  the monarch is hereditary; president proposed by the
  monarch and elected by the National Assembly following legislative
  elections; election last held 12 March 2000 (next to be held NA
  March 2004); vice presidents appointed by the monarch on proposal of
  the president

  election results:  Jose Maria AZNAR Lopez (PP) elected president;
  percent of National Assembly vote - 44%

Sri Lanka:
  chief of state:  President Chandrika Bandaranaike
  KUMARATUNGA (since 12 November 1994); note - Ratnasiri
  WICKRAMANAYAKE (since 10 August 2000) is the prime minister; in Sri
  Lanka the president is considered to be both the chief of state and
  the head of the government, this is in contrast to the more common
  practice of dividing the roles between the president and the prime
  minister when both offices exist

  head of government:  President Chandrika Bandaranaike KUMARATUNGA
  (since 12 November 1994); note - Ratnasiri WICKRAMANAYAKE (since 10
  August 2000) is the prime minister; in Sri Lanka the president is
  considered to be both the chief of state and the head of the
  government, this is in contrast to the more common practice of
  dividing the roles between the president and the prime minister when
  both offices exist

  cabinet:  Cabinet appointed by the president in consultation with
  the prime minister

  elections:  president elected by popular vote for a six-year term;
  election last held 21 December 1999 (next to be held NA December
  2005)

  election results:  Chandrika Bandaranaike KUMARATUNGA reelected
  president; percent of vote - Chandrika Bandaranaike KUMARATUNGA (PA)
  51%, Ranil WICKREMASINGHE (UNP) 42%, other 7%

Sudan:
  chief of state:  President Lt. Gen. Umar Hasan Ahmad
  al-BASHIR (since 16 October 1993); First Vice President Ali Uthman
  Muhammad TAHA (since 17 February 1998), Second Vice President Moses
  MACHAR (since 12 February 2001); note - the president is both the
  chief of state and head of government

  head of government:  President Lt. Gen. Umar Hasan Ahmad al-BASHIR
  (since 16 October 1993); First Vice President Ali Uthman Muhammad
  TAHA (since 17 February 1998), Second Vice President Moses MACHAR
  (since 12 February 2001); note - the president is both the chief of
  state and head of government

  cabinet:  Council of Ministers appointed by the president; note -
  the National Congress Party (front for the National Islamic Front or
  NIF) dominates BASHIR's cabinet

  elections:  president elected by popular vote for a five-year term;
  election last held 13-23 December 2000 (next to be held NA 2005)

  election results:  Umar Hasan Ahmad al-BASHIR reelected president;
  percent of vote - Umar Hasan Ahmad al-BASHIR 86.5%, Ja'afar Muhammed
  NUMAYRI 9.6%, three other candidates received less than a combined
  4% of the vote

  note:  BASHIR assumed supreme executive power in 1989 and retained
  it through several transitional governments in the early and mid-90s
  before being popularly elected for the first time in March 1996

Suriname:
  chief of state:  President Runaldo Ronald VENETIAAN (since
  12 August 2000); Vice President Jules Rattankoemar AJODHIA (since 12
  August 2000); note - the president is both the chief of state and
  head of government

  head of government:  President Runaldo Ronald VENETIAAN (since 12
  August 2000); Vice President Jules Rattankoemar AJODHIA (since 12
  August 2000); note - the president is both the chief of state and
  head of government

  cabinet:  Cabinet of Ministers appointed by the president from among
  the members of the National Assembly

  elections:  president and vice president elected by the National
  Assembly or, if no presidential or vice presidential candidate
  receives a constitutional majority vote in the National Assembly
  after two votes, by the larger People's Assembly (869
  representatives from the national, local, and regional councils),
  for five-year terms; election last held 6 May 2000 (next to be held
  NA May 2005)

  note:  widespread demonstrations during the summer of 1999 led to
  the calling of elections a year early

  election results:  Runaldo Ronald VENETIAAN elected president;
  percent of legislative vote - 72.5; National Assembly elected the
  president - Runaldo Ronald VENETIAAN (New Front) 37 votes, Rashied
  DOEKHIE (NDP) 10 votes

Svalbard:
  chief of state:  King HARALD V of Norway (since 17 January
  1991)

  head of government:  Governor Morten RUUD (since NA November 1998)
  and Assistant Governor Odd Redar HUMLEGAARD (since NA)

  elections:  none; the monarch is hereditary; governor and assistant
  governor responsible to the Polar Department of the Ministry of
  Justice

Swaziland:
  chief of state:  King MSWATI III (since 25 April 1986)

  head of government:  Prime Minister Sibusiso Barnabas DLAMINI (since
  9 August 1996)

  cabinet:  Cabinet recommended by the prime minister and confirmed by
  the monarch

  elections:  none; the monarch is hereditary; prime minister
  appointed by the monarch

Sweden:
  chief of state:  King CARL XVI GUSTAF (since 19 September
  1973); Heir Apparent Princess VICTORIA Ingrid Alice Desiree,
  daughter of the monarch (born 14 July 1977)

  head of government:  Prime Minister Goran PERSSON (since 21 March
  1996)

  cabinet:  Cabinet appointed by the prime minister

  elections:  the monarch is hereditary; prime minister elected by the
  Parliament; election last held NA September 1998 (next to be held NA
  2002)

  election results:  Goran PERSSON reelected prime minister with 131
  out of 349 votes

Switzerland:
  chief of state:  President Moritz LEUENBERGER (since 1
  January 2001); Vice President Kaspar VILLIGER (since 1 January
  2001); note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
  government

  head of government:  President Moritz LEUENBERGER (since 1 January
  2001); Vice President Kaspar VILLIGER (since 1 January 2001); note -
  the president is both the chief of state and head of government

  cabinet:  Federal Council or Bundesrat (in German), Conseil Federal
  (in French), Consiglio Federale (in Italian) elected by the Federal
  Assembly from among its own members for a four-year term

  elections:  president and vice president elected by the Federal
  Assembly from among the members of the Federal Council for one-year
  terms that run concurrently; election last held 6 December 2000
  (next to be held NA December 2001)

  election results:  Moritz LEUENBERGER elected president; percent of
  Federal Assembly vote - 76%; Kaspar VILLIGER elected vice president;
  percent of legislative vote - 72%

Syria:
  chief of state:  President Bashar al-ASAD (since 17 July
  2000); Vice Presidents Abd al-Halim ibn Said KHADDAM (since 11 March
  1984) and Muhammad Zuhayr MASHARIQA (since 11 March 1984)

  head of government:  Prime Minister Muhammad Mustafa MIRU (since 13
  March 2000), Deputy Prime Ministers Lt. Gen. Mustafa TALAS (since 11
  March 1984), Khalid RA'D (since 13 March 2000), Muhammad NAJI 'UTRI
  (since 13 March 2000)

  cabinet:  Council of Ministers appointed by the president

  elections:  president elected by popular vote for a seven-year term;
  referendum/election last held 10 July 2000 - after the death of
  President Hafez al-ASAD, father of Bashar al-ASAD - (next to be held
  NA 2007); vice presidents appointed by the president; prime minister
  and deputy prime ministers appointed by the president

  election results:  Bashar al-ASAD elected president; percent of vote
  - Bashar al-ASAD 97.29%

  note:  Hafiz al-ASAD died 10 June 2000; 20 June 2000 the Ba'th Party
  nominated Bashar al-ASAD for president and presented his name to the
  People's Council 25 June 2000

Tajikistan:
  chief of state:  President Emomali RAHMONOV (since 6
  November 1994; head of state and Supreme Assembly chairman since 19
  November 1992)

  head of government:  Prime Minister Oqil OQILOV (since 20 January
  1999)

  cabinet:  Council of Ministers appointed by the president, approved
  by the Supreme Assembly

  elections:  president elected by popular vote for a seven-year term;
  election last held 6 November 1999 (next to be held NA 2006); prime
  minister appointed by the president

  election results:  Emomali RAHMONOV elected president; percent of
  vote - Emomali RAHMONOV 97%, Davlat USMON 2%

Tanzania:
  chief of state:  President Benjamin William MKAPA (since
  23 November 1995); Vice President Omar Ali JUMA (since 23 November
  1995); note - the president is both chief of state and head of
  government

  head of government:  President Benjamin William MKAPA (since 23
  November 1995); Vice President Omar Ali JUMA (since 23 November
  1995); note - the president is both chief of state and head of
  government

  note:  Zanzibar elects a president who is head of government for
  matters internal to Zanzibar; Amani Abeid KARUME was elected to that
  office on 29 October 2000

  cabinet:  Cabinet ministers, including the prime minister, are
  appointed by the president from among the members of the National
  Assembly

  elections:  president and vice president elected on the same ballot
  by popular vote for five-year terms; election last held 29 October
  2000 (next to be held NA October 2005); prime minister appointed by
  the president

  election results:  Benjamin William MKAPA reelected president;
  percent of vote - Benjamin William MKAPA 71.7%, Ibrahim Haruna
  LIPUMBA 16.3%, Augustine Lyatonga MREME 7.8%, John Momose CHEYO 4.2%

Thailand:
  chief of state:  King PHUMIPHON Adunyadet (since 9 June
  1946)

  head of government:  Prime Minister THAKSIN Chinnawat (since NA
  January 2001)

  cabinet:  Council of Ministers

  note:  there is also a Privy Council

  elections:  none; the monarch is hereditary; prime minister
  designated from among the members of the House of Representatives;
  following a national election for the House of Representatives, the
  leader of the party that can organize a majority coalition usually
  becomes prime minister

Togo:
  chief of state:  President Gen. Gnassingbe EYADEMA (since 14
  April 1967)

  head of government:  Prime Minister Agbeyome KODJO (since 29 August
  2000)

  cabinet:  Council of Ministers appointed by the president and the
  prime minister

  elections:  president elected by popular vote for a five-year term;
  election last held 21 June 1998 (next to be held NA 2003); prime
  minister appointed by the president

  election results:  Gnassingbe EYADEMA reelected president; percent
  of vote - Gnassingbe EYADEMA 52.13%, Gilchrist OLYMPIO 34.12%, other
  13.75%

Tokelau:
  chief of state:  Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February
  1952); the UK and New Zealand are represented by Administrator
  Lindsay WATT (since NA March 1993)

  head of government:  Aliki Faipule FALIMATEAO (since NA 1997)

  cabinet:  the Council of Faipule, consisting of three elected
  leaders, one from each atoll; functions as a cabinet

  elections:  none; the monarch is hereditary; administrator appointed
  by the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade in New Zealand; the
  head of government is chosen from the Council of Faipule and serves
  a one-year term

Tonga:
  chief of state:  King Taufa'ahau TUPOU IV (since 16 December
  1965)

  head of government:  Prime Minister Prince Lavaka ata ULUKALALA
  (since NA February 2000) and Deputy Prime Minister Tevita TOPOU
  (since NA January 2001)

  cabinet:  Cabinet appointed by the monarch

  note:  there is also a Privy Council that consists of the monarch
  and the Cabinet

  elections:  none; the monarch is hereditary; prime minister and
  deputy prime minister appointed for life by the monarch

Trinidad and Tobago:
  chief of state:  President Arthur Napoleon
  Raymond ROBINSON (since 19 March 1997)

  head of government:  Prime Minister Basdeo PANDAY (since 9 November
  1995)

  cabinet:  Cabinet appointed from among the members of Parliament

  elections:  president elected by an electoral college, which
  consists of the members of the Senate and House of Representatives,
  for a five-year term; election last held 11 December 2000 (next to
  be held by NA 2005); prime minister appointed from among the members
  of Parliament; following legislative elections, the leader of the
  majority party in the House of Representatives is usually appointed
  prime minister

  election results:  Arthur Napoleon Raymond ROBINSON elected
  president; percent of electoral college vote - 69%

Tunisia:
  chief of state:  President Zine El Abidine BEN ALI (since 7
  November 1987)

  head of government:  Prime Minister Mohamed GHANNOUCHI (since 17
  November 1999)

  cabinet:  Council of Ministers appointed by the president

  elections:  president elected by popular vote for a five-year term;
  election last held 24 October 1999 (next to be held NA 2004); prime
  minister appointed by the president

  election results:  President Zine El Abidine BEN ALI reelected for a
  third term without opposition; percent of vote - Zine El Abidine BEN
  ALI nearly 100%

Turkey:
  chief of state:  President Ahmed Necdet SEZER (since 16 May
  2000)

  head of government:  Prime Minister Bulent ECEVIT (since 11 January
  1999)

  cabinet:  Council of Ministers appointed by the president on the
  nomination of the prime minister

  note:  there is also a National Security Council that serves as an
  advisory body to the president and the cabinet

  elections:  president elected by the National Assembly for a
  seven-year term; election last held 5 May 2000 (next scheduled to be
  held NA May 2007); prime minister and deputy prime minister
  appointed by the president

  election results:  Ahmed Necdet SEZER elected president on the third
  ballot; percent of National Assembly vote - 60%

  note:  president must have a two-thirds majority of the National
  Assembly on the first two ballots and a simple majority on the third
  ballot

Turkmenistan:
  chief of state:  President and Chairman of the Cabinet
  of Ministers Saparmurat NIYAZOV (since 27 October 1990, when the
  first direct presidential election occurred); note - the president
  is both the chief of state and head of government

  head of government:  President and Chairman of the Cabinet of
  Ministers Saparmurat NIYAZOV (since 27 October 1990, when the first
  direct presidential election occurred); note - the president is both
  the chief of state and head of government

  cabinet:  Council of Ministers appointed by the president

  note:  NIYAZOV's term in office was extended indefinitely on 28
  December 1999 by the Assembly (Majlis) during a session of the
  People's Council (Halk Maslahaty)

  elections:  president elected by popular vote for a five-year term;
  election last held 21 June 1992 (next scheduled to be held NA); note
  - President NIYAZOV was unanimously approved as president for life
  by the Assembly on 28 December 1999); deputy chairmen of the cabinet
  of ministers are appointed by the president

  election results:  Saparmurat NIYAZOV elected president without
  opposition; percent of vote - Saparmurat NIYAZOV 99.5%

Turks and Caicos Islands:
  chief of state:  Queen ELIZABETH II (since
  6 February 1953), represented by Governor Mervyn JONES (since 27
  January 2000)

  head of government:  Chief Minister Derek H. TAYLOR (since 31
  January 1995)

  cabinet:  Executive Council consists of three ex officio members and
  five appointed by the governor from among the members of the
  Legislative Council

  elections:  none; the monarch is hereditary; governor appointed by
  the monarch; chief minister appointed by the governor

Tuvalu:
  chief of state:  Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6 February 1952),
  represented by Governor General Sir Tomasi PUAPUA (since 26 June
  1998)

  head of government:  Acting Prime Minister Lagitupu (of Nanumea)
  TUILIMU (since 8 December 2000); note - TUILIMU took over after
  Prime Minister Ionatana IONATANA died suddenly of a heart attack on
  8 December 2000

  cabinet:  Cabinet appointed by the governor general on the
  recommendation of the prime minister

  elections:  the monarch is hereditary; governor general appointed by
  the monarch on the recommendation of the prime minister; prime
  minister and deputy prime minister elected by and from the members
  of Parliament; election last held 27 April 1999 (next to be held NA
  2002)

  election results:  results of the last election for prime minister -
  Ionatana IONATANA elected prime minister; percent of Parliament vote
  - NA%; Lagitupu (of Nanumea) TUILIMU elected deputy prime minister;
  percent of Parliament vote - NA%; note - Deputy Prime Minister
  Lagitupu (of Nanumea) TUILIMU became acting prime minister following
  the death of Prime Minister Ionatana IONATANA on 8 December 2000

Uganda:
  chief of state:  President Lt. Gen. Yoweri Kaguta MUSEVENI
  (since seizing power 29 January 1986); note - the president is both
  chief of state and head of government

  head of government:  President Lt. Gen. Yoweri Kaguta MUSEVENI
  (since seizing power 29 January 1986); Prime Minister Apollo
  NSIBAMBI (since 5 April 1999); note - the president is both chief of
  state and head of government; the prime minister assists the
  president in the supervision of the cabinet

  cabinet:  Cabinet appointed by the president from among elected
  legislators

  elections:  president reelected by popular vote for a five-year
  term; election last held 12 March 2001 (next to be held NA 2006);
  note - first popular election for president since independence in
  1962 was held in 1996; prime minister appointed by the president

  election results:  Lt. Gen. Yoweri Kaguta MUSEVENI elected
  president; percent of vote - Lt. Gen. Yoweri Kaguta MUSEVENI 69.3%,
  Kizza BESIGYE 27.8%

Ukraine:
  chief of state:  President Leonid D. KUCHMA (since 19 July
  1994)

  head of government:  Prime Minister Anatoliy KINAKH (since 29 May
  2001), First Deputy Prime Minister Oleh DUBYNA (since 29 May 2001)

  cabinet:  Cabinet of Ministers appointed by the president and
  approved by the Supreme Council

  note:  there is also a National Security and Defense Council or NSDC
  originally created in 1992 as the National Security Council, but
  significantly revamped and strengthened under President KUCHMA; the
  NSDC staff is tasked with developing national security policy on
  domestic and international matters and advising the president; a
  Presidential Administration that helps draft presidential edicts and
  provides policy support to the president; and a Council of Regions
  that serves as an advisory body created by President KUCHMA in
  September 1994 that includes chairmen of the Kyyiv (Kiev) and
  Sevastopol' municipalities and chairmen of the oblasti

  elections:  president elected by popular vote for a five-year term;
  election last held 31 October and 14 November 1999 (next to be held
  NA 2004); prime minister and deputy prime ministers appointed by the
  president and approved by the Supreme Council

  election results:  Leonid D. KUCHMA elected president; percent of
  vote - Leonid KUCHMA 57.7%, Petro SYMONENKO 38.8%

United Arab Emirates:
  chief of state:  President ZAYID bin Sultan Al
  Nuhayyan (since 2 December 1971), ruler of Abu Zaby (Abu Dhabi)
  (since 6 August 1966) and Vice President MAKTUM bin Rashid al-Maktum
  (since 8 October 1990), ruler of Dubayy (Dubai)

  head of government:  Prime Minister MAKTUM bin Rashid al-Maktum
  (since 8 October 1990), ruler of Dubayy (Dubai); Deputy Prime
  Minister SULTAN bin Zayid Al Nuhayyan (since 20 November 1990)

  cabinet:  Council of Ministers appointed by the president

  note:  there is also a Federal Supreme Council (FSC) which is
  composed of the seven emirate rulers; the council is the highest
  constitutional authority in the UAE; establishes general policies
  and sanctions federal legislation, Abu Zaby (Abu Dhabi) and Dubayy
  (Dubai) rulers have effective veto power; meets four times a year

  elections:  president and vice president elected by the FSC (a group
  of seven electors) for five-year terms; election last held NA
  October 1996 (next to be held NA October 2001); prime minister and
  deputy prime minister appointed by the president

  election results:  ZAYID bin Sultan Al Nuhayyan reelected president;
  percent of FSC vote - NA, but believed to be unanimous; MAKTUM bin
  Rashid al-Maktum elected vice president; percent of FSC vote - NA%,
  but believed to be unanimous

United Kingdom:
  chief of state:  Queen ELIZABETH II (since 6
  February 1952); Heir Apparent Prince CHARLES (son of the queen, born
  14 November 1948)

  head of government:  Prime Minister Anthony C. L. (Tony) BLAIR
  (since 2 May 1997)

  cabinet:  Cabinet of Ministers appointed by the prime minister

  elections:  none; the monarch is hereditary; the prime minister is
  the leader of the majority party in the House of Commons (assuming
  there is no majority party, a prime minister would have a majority
  coalition or at least a coalition that was not rejected by the
  majority)

United States:
  chief of state:  President George W. BUSH (since 20
  January 2001) and Vice President Richard B. CHENEY (since 20 January
  2001); note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
  government

  head of government:  President George W. BUSH (since 20 January
  2001) and Vice President Richard B. CHENEY (since 20 January 2001);
  note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
  government

  cabinet:  Cabinet appointed by the president with Senate approval

  elections:  president and vice president elected on the same ticket
  by a college of representatives who are elected directly from each
  state; president and vice president serve four-year terms; election
  last held 7 November 2000 (next to be held NA November 2004)

  election results:  George W. BUSH elected president; percent of
  popular vote - George W. BUSH (Republican Party) 48%, Albert A.
  GORE, Jr. (Democratic Party) 48%, Ralph NADER (Green Party) 3%,
  other 1%

Uruguay:
  chief of state:  President Jorge BATLLE (since 1 March
  2000) and Vice President Luis HIERRO (since 1 March 2000); note -
  the president is both the chief of state and head of government

  head of government:  President Jorge BATLLE (since 1 March 2000) and
  Vice President Luis HIERRO (since 1 March 2000); note - the
  president is both the chief of state and head of government

  cabinet:  Council of Ministers appointed by the president with
  parliamentary approval

  elections:  president and vice president elected on the same ticket
  by popular vote for five-year terms; election last held 31 October
  1999 with run-off election on 28 November 1999 (next to be held NA
  2004)

  election results:  Jorge BATLLE elected president; percent of vote -
  Jorge BATLLE 52% in a runoff against Tabare VAZQUEZ 44%

Uzbekistan:
  chief of state:  President Islom KARIMOV (since 24 March
  1990, when he was elected president by the then Supreme Soviet)

  head of government:  Prime Minister Otkir SULTONOV (since 21
  December 1995)

  cabinet:  Cabinet of Ministers appointed by the president with
  approval of the Supreme Assembly

  elections:  president elected by popular vote for a five-year term;
  election last held 9 January 2000 (next to be held NA January 2005);
  note - extension of President KARIMOV's original term for an
  additional five years overwhelmingly approved - 99.6% of total vote
  in favor - by national referendum held 27 March 1995; prime minister
  and deputy ministers appointed by the president

  election results:  Islom KARIMOV reelected president; percent of
  vote - Islom KARIMOV 91.9%, Abdulkhafiz DZHALALOV 4.2%

Vanuatu:
  chief of state:  President Father John BANI (since 25 March
  1999)

  head of government:  Prime Minister Edward NATAPEI (since 16 April
  2001); Deputy Prime Minister Serge VOHOR (since 16 April 2001)

  cabinet:  Council of Ministers appointed by the prime minister,
  responsible to Parliament

  elections:  president elected for a four-year term by an electoral
  college consisting of Parliament and the presidents of the regional
  councils for a five-year term; election for president last held 25
  March 1999 (next to be held NA 2003); following legislative
  elections, the leader of the majority party or majority coalition is
  usually elected prime minister by Parliament from among its members;
  election for prime minister last held 16 April 2001 (next to be held
  NA 2002)

  election results:  Father John BANI elected president; percent of
  electoral college vote - NA%; Edward NATAPEI elected prime minister
  by Parliament with a total of 27 out of 52 votes

  note:  the government of Prime Minister Barak SOPE was ousted in a
  no confidence vote on 14 April 2001 and Edward NATAPEI was elected
  the new prime minister by Parliament

Venezuela:
  chief of state:  President Hugo CHAVEZ Frias (since 3
  February 1999); Vice President Adina BASTIDAS Castillo; note - the
  president is both the chief of state and head of government

  head of government:  President Hugo CHAVEZ Frias (since 3 February
  1999); Vice President Adina BASTIDAS Castillo; note - the president
  is both the chief of state and head of government

  cabinet:  Council of Ministers appointed by the president

  elections:  president elected by popular vote for a six-year term;
  election last held 30 July 2000 (next to be held NA 2006)

  election results:  Hugo CHAVEZ Frias elected president; percent of
  vote - 60%

  note:  government coalition - Patriotic Pole or Polo Patriotico
  consists of MVR, MAS, and PPT

Vietnam:
  chief of state:  President Tran Duc LUONG (since 24
  September 1997) and Vice President Nguyen Thi BINH (since NA October
  1992)

  head of government:  Prime Minister Phan Van KHAI (since 25
  September 1997); First Deputy Prime Minister Nguyen Tan DUNG (since
  29 September 1997); Deputy Prime Ministers Nguyen Cong TAN (since 29
  September 1997), Nguyen Manh CAM (since 29 September 1997), and Pham
  Gia KHIEM (since 29 September 1997)

  cabinet:  Cabinet appointed by the president on the proposal of the
  prime minister and ratification of the National Assembly

  elections:  president elected by the National Assembly from among
  its members for a five-year term; election last held 25 September
  1997 (next to be held when National Assembly meets following
  legislative elections in NA 2002); prime minister appointed by the
  president from among the members of the National Assembly; deputy
  prime ministers appointed by the prime minister

  election results:  Tran Duc LUONG elected president; percent of
  National Assembly vote - NA%

Virgin Islands:
  chief of state:  President George W. BUSH of the US
  (since 20 January 2001); Vice President Richard B. CHENEY (Since 20
  January 2001)

  head of government:  Governor Dr. Charles Wesley TURNBULL (since 5
  January 1999) and Lieutenant Governor Gererd LUZ James II (since 5
  January 1999)

  cabinet:  NA

  elections:  US president and vice president elected on the same
  ticket for four-year terms; governor and lieutenant governor elected
  on the same ticket by popular vote for four-year terms; election
  last held 3 November 1998 (next to be held NA November 2002)

  election results:  Dr. Charles Wesley TURNBULL elected governor;
  percent of vote - Dr. Charles W. TURNBULL (Democrat) 58.9%, former
  Governor Roy L. SCHNEIDER (ICM) 41.1%

Wallis and Futuna:
  chief of state:  President Jacques CHIRAC of
  France (since 17 May 1995), represented by High Administrator
  Christian DORS (since NA)

  head of government:  President of the Territorial Assembly Soane
  UHILA (since NA)

  cabinet:  Council of the Territory consists of three kings and three
  members appointed by the high administrator on the advice of the
  Territorial Assembly

  note:  there are three traditional kings with limited powers

  elections:  French president elected by popular vote for a
  seven-year term; high administrator appointed by the French
  president on the advice of the French Ministry of the Interior; the
  presidents of the Territorial Government and the Territorial
  Assembly are elected by the members of the assembly

Western Sahara:
  none

Yemen:
  chief of state:  President Field Marshall Ali Abdallah SALIH
  (since 22 May 1990, the former president of North Yemen, assumed
  office upon the merger of North and South Yemen); Vice President
  Maj. Gen. Abd al-Rab Mansur al-HADI (since 3 October 1994)

  head of government:  Prime Minister Abd al-Qadir BA JAMAL (since 4
  April 2001)

  cabinet:  Council of Ministers appointed by the president on the
  advice of the prime minister

  elections:  president elected by direct, popular vote for a
  five-year term (a new constitution amendment extends the term by two
  years to a seven-year term); election last held 23 September 1999
  (next to be held NA 2006); vice president appointed by the
  president; prime minister and deputy prime ministers appointed by
  the president

  election results:  Ali Abdallah SALIH elected president; percent of
  vote: Ali Abdallah SALIH 96.3%, Najeeb Qahtan AL-SHAABI 3.7%

Yugoslavia:
  chief of state:  President Vojislav KOSTUNICA (since 7
  October 2000)

  head of government:  Prime Minister Dragisa PESIC (since 24 July
  2001); Deputy Prime Minister Miroljub LABUS (since 25 January 2001)

  cabinet:  Federal Executive Council

  elections:  president elected by direct popular vote for up to two,
  four-year terms; election last held 24 September 2000 (next to be
  held NA 2004); prime minister appointed by the president

  election results:  Vojislav KOSTUNICA elected president; percent of
  vote - Vojislav KOSTUNICA 55%, Slobodan MILOSEVIC 35%

Zambia:
  chief of state:  President Frederick CHILUBA (since 2
  November 1991); Vice President Enoch KAVINDELE (since 4 May 2001);
  note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
  government

  head of government:  President Frederick CHILUBA (since 2 November
  1991); Vice President Enoch KAVINDELE (since 4 May 2001); note - the
  president is both the chief of state and head of government

  cabinet:  Cabinet appointed by the president from among the members
  of the National Assembly

  elections:  president elected by popular vote for a five-year term;
  election last held 18 November 1996 (next to be held NA October
  2001); vice president appointed by the president

  election results:  Frederick CHILUBA reelected president; percent of
  vote - Frederick CHILUBA 72.5%, Dean MUNGO'MBA 12.6%, Humphrey
  MULEMBA 7%, Akashambatwa LEWANIKA 4.7%, Chama CHAKOMBOKA 3.2%

Zimbabwe:
  chief of state:  Executive President Robert Gabriel MUGABE
  (since 31 December 1987); Co-Vice Presidents Simon Vengai MUZENDA
  (since 31 December 1987) and Joseph MSIKA (since 23 December 1999);
  note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
  government

  head of government:  Executive President Robert Gabriel MUGABE
  (since 31 December 1987); Co-Vice Presidents Simon Vengai MUZENDA
  (since 31 December 1987) and Joseph MSIKA (since 23 December 1999);
  note - the president is both the chief of state and head of
  government

  cabinet:  Cabinet appointed by the president; responsible to the
  House of Assembly

  elections:  presidential candidates nominated with a nomination
  paper signed by at least 10 registered voters (at least one from
  each province) and elected by popular vote; election last held 16-17
  March 1996 (next to be held NA March 2002); co-vice presidents
  appointed by the president

  election results:  Robert Gabriel MUGABE reelected president;
  percent of electoral college vote - Robert Gabriel MUGABE 92.7%,
  Abel MUZOREWA 4.8%; Ndabaningi SITHOLE 2.4%

Taiwan:
  chief of state:  President CHEN Shui-bien (20 May 2000) and
  Vice President Annette LU (since 20 May 2000)

  head of government:  Premier (President of the Executive Yuan) CHANG
  Chun-hsiung (since NA October 2000) and Vice Premier (Vice President
  of the Executive Yuan) LAI In-jaw (since NA October 2000)

  cabinet:  Executive Yuan appointed by the president

  elections:  president and vice president elected on the same ticket
  by popular vote for four-year terms; election last held 18 March
  2000 (next to be held NA March 2004); premier appointed by the
  president; vice premiers appointed by the president on the
  recommendation of the premier

  election results:  CHEN Shui-bien elected president; percent of vote
  - CHEN Shui-bien (DPP) 39.3%, James SOONG (independent) 36.84%, LIEN
  Chan (KMT) 23.1%, HSU Hsin-liang (independent) 0.63%, LEE Ao (CNP)
  0.13%

======================================================================

@Exports



Afghanistan:
  $80 million (does not include opium) (1996 est.)

Albania:
  $310 million (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Algeria:
  $19.6 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

American Samoa:
  $500 million (1998)

Andorra:
  $58 million (f.o.b., 1998)

Angola:
  $7.8 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Anguilla:
  $4.5 million (1998)

Antigua and Barbuda:
  $38 million (1998)

Argentina:
  $26.5 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Armenia:
  $284 million (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Aruba:
  $2.2 billion (including oil reexports) (2000 est.)

Australia:
  $69 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Austria:
  $63.2 billion (2000 est.)

Azerbaijan:
  $1.9 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Bahamas, The:
  $376.8 million (2000 est.)

Bahrain:
  $5.8 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Bangladesh:
  $5.9 billion (2000)

Barbados:
  $260 million (2000 est.)

Belarus:
  $7.4 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Belgium:
  $181.4 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Belize:
  $235.7 million (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Benin:
  $396 million (f.o.b., 1999)

Bermuda:
  $56 million (2000 est.)

Bhutan:
  $154 million (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Bolivia:
  $1.26 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  $950 million (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Botswana:
  $2.6 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Brazil:
  $55.1 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

British Virgin Islands:
  $6.2 million (2000 est.)

Brunei:
  $2.55 billion (f.o.b., 1999 est.)

Bulgaria:
  $4.8 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Burkina Faso:
  $220 million (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Burma:
  $1.3 billion (f.o.b., 1999)

Burundi:
  $32 million (f.o.b., 2000)

Cambodia:
  $942 million (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Cameroon:
  $2.1 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Canada:
  $272.3 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Cape Verde:
  $40 million (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Cayman Islands:
  $1.5 million (1998)

Central African Republic:
  $166 million (f.o.b., 2000)

Chad:
  $172 million (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Chile:
  $18 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

China:
  $232 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Christmas Island:
  $NA

Cocos (Keeling) Islands:
  $NA

Colombia:
  $14.5 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Comoros:
  $7.9 million (f.o.b., 1999 est.)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  $960 million (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Congo, Republic of the:
  $2.6 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Cook Islands:
  $3 million (f.o.b., 1999 est.)

Costa Rica:
  $6.1 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Cote d'Ivoire:
  $3.8 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Croatia:
  $4.3 billion (f.o.b., 1999)

Cuba:
  $1.8 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Cyprus:
  Greek Cypriot area: $1 billion (f.o.b., 1999 est.); Turkish
  Cypriot area: $51.1 million (f.o.b., 1999)

Czech Republic:
  $28.3 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Denmark:
  $50.8 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Djibouti:
  $260 million (f.o.b., 1999 est.)

Dominica:
  $60.7 million (2000 est.)

Dominican Republic:
  $5.8 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Ecuador:
  $5.6 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Egypt:
  $7.3 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

El Salvador:
  $2.8 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Equatorial Guinea:
  $860 million (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Eritrea:
  $26 million (f.o.b., 1999)

Estonia:
  $3.1 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Ethiopia:
  $460 million (f.o.b., 1999)

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas):
  $7.6 million (1995)

Faroe Islands:
  $471 million (f.o.b., 1999)

Fiji:
  $537 million (f.o.b., 1999)

Finland:
  $44.4 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

France:
  $325 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

French Guiana:
  $155 million (f.o.b., 1997)

French Polynesia:
  $205 million (f.o.b., 1999)

Gabon:
  $3.4 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Gambia, The:
  $125.8 million (f.o.b., 1999)

Gaza Strip:
  $682 million (f.o.b., 1998 est.) (includes West Bank)

Georgia:
  $372 million (2000 est.)

Germany:
  $578 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Ghana:
  $1.6 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Gibraltar:
  $81.1 million (f.o.b., 1997)

Greece:
  $15.8 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Greenland:
  $276 million (f.o.b., 1999)

Grenada:
  $62.3 million (2000 est.)

Guadeloupe:
  $140 million (f.o.b., 1997)

Guam:
  $75.7 million (f.o.b., 1999)

Guatemala:
  $2.9 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Guernsey:
  $NA

Guinea:
  $820 million (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Guinea-Bissau:
  $80 million (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Guyana:
  $570 million (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Haiti:
  $186 million (f.o.b., 1999)

Honduras:
  $2 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Hong Kong:
  $204 billion (including reexports; f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Hungary:
  $25.2 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Iceland:
  $2 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

India:
  $43.1 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Indonesia:
  $64.7 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Iran:
  $25 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Iraq:
  $21.8 billion (2000 est.)

Ireland:
  $73.5 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Israel:
  $31.5 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Italy:
  $241.1 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Jamaica:
  $1.7 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Japan:
  $450 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Jersey:
  $NA

Jordan:
  $2 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Kazakhstan:
  $8.8 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Kenya:
  $1.7 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Kiribati:
  $6 million (f.o.b., 1998)

Korea, North:
  $520 million (f.o.b., 1999 est.)

Korea, South:
  $172.6 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Kuwait:
  $23.2 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Kyrgyzstan:
  $482 million (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Laos:
  $323 million (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Latvia:
  $2.1 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Lebanon:
  $700 million (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Lesotho:
  $175 million (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Liberia:
  $55 million (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Libya:
  $13.9 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Liechtenstein:
  $2.47 billion (1996)

Lithuania:
  $3.7 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Luxembourg:
  $7.6 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Macau:
  $2.6 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  $1.4 billion (f.o.b.,
  2000 est.)

Madagascar:
  $538 million (f.o.b., 1998)

Malawi:
  $416 million (f.o.b., 2000)

Malaysia:
  $97.9 billion (2000 est.)

Maldives:
  $88 million (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Mali:
  $480 million (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Malta:
  $2 billion (f.o.b., 1999)

Man, Isle of:
  $NA

Marshall Islands:
  $28 million (f.o.b., 1997 est.)

Martinique:
  $250 million (f.o.b., 1997)

Mauritania:
  $333 million (f.o.b., 1999)

Mauritius:
  $1.6 billion (f.o.b., 1999)

Mayotte:
  $3.44 million (f.o.b., 1997)

Mexico:
  $168 billion (f.o.b., 2000), includes in-bond industries
  (assembly plant operations)

Micronesia, Federated States of:
  $73 million (f.o.b., 1996 est.)

Moldova:
  $500 million (f.o.b., 2000)

Monaco:
  $NA; full customs integration with France, which collects
  and rebates Monegasque trade duties; also participates in EU market
  system through customs union with France

Mongolia:
  $454.3 million (f.o.b., 1999)

Montserrat:
  $1.5 million (1998)

Morocco:
  $7.6 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Mozambique:
  $390 million (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Namibia:
  $1.4 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Nauru:
  $25.3 million (f.o.b., 1991)

Nepal:
  $485 million (f.o.b., 1998), but does not include unrecorded
  border trade with India

Netherlands:
  $210.3 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Netherlands Antilles:
  $276 million (f.o.b., 2000)

New Caledonia:
  $411 million (f.o.b., 1999)

New Zealand:
  $14.6 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Nicaragua:
  $631 million (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Niger:
  $385 million (f.o.b., 1999)

Nigeria:
  $22.2 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Niue:
  $117,500 (f.o.b., 1989)

Norfolk Island:
  $1.5 million (f.o.b., FY91/92)

Northern Mariana Islands:
  $NA

Norway:
  $59.2 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Oman:
  $11.1 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Pakistan:
  $8.6 billion (f.o.b., FY99/00)

Palau:
  $14.3 million (f.o.b., 1996)

Panama:
  $5.7 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Papua New Guinea:
  $2.1 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Paraguay:
  $3.5 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Peru:
  $7 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Philippines:
  $38 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Pitcairn Islands:
  $NA

Poland:
  $28.4 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Portugal:
  $26.1 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Puerto Rico:
  $38.5 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Qatar:
  $9.8 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Reunion:
  $214 million (f.o.b., 1997)

Romania:
  $11.2 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Russia:
  $105.1 billion (2000 est.)

Rwanda:
  $68.4 million (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Saint Helena:
  $704,000 (f.o.b., 1995)

Saint Kitts and Nevis:
  $53.2 million (2000 est.)

Saint Lucia:
  $68.3 million (2000 est.)

Saint Pierre and Miquelon:
  $12 million (f.o.b., 1999)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:
  $53.7 million (2000 est.)

Samoa:
  $17 million (f.o.b., 2000)

San Marino:
  trade data are included with the statistics for Italy

Sao Tome and Principe:
  $3.2 million (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Saudi Arabia:
  $81.2 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Senegal:
  $959 million (f.o.b., 2000)

Seychelles:
  $111 million (f.o.b., 1999)

Sierra Leone:
  $65 million (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Singapore:
  $137 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Slovakia:
  $12 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Slovenia:
  $8.9 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Solomon Islands:
  $165 million (f.o.b., 1999 est.)

Somalia:
  $186 million (f.o.b., 1999 est.)

South Africa:
  $30.8 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Spain:
  $120.5 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Sri Lanka:
  $5.2 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Sudan:
  $1.7 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Suriname:
  $443 million (f.o.b., 1999)

Svalbard:
  $NA

Swaziland:
  $881 million (f.o.b., 2000)

Sweden:
  $95.5 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Switzerland:
  $91.3 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Syria:
  $4.8 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Tajikistan:
  $761 million (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Tanzania:
  $937 million (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Thailand:
  $68.2 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Togo:
  $336 million (f.o.b., 2000)

Tokelau:
  $98,000 (f.o.b., 1983)

Tonga:
  $8 million (f.o.b., 1998)

Trinidad and Tobago:
  $3.2 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Tunisia:
  $6.1 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Turkey:
  $26.9 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Turkmenistan:
  $2.4 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Turks and Caicos Islands:
  $4.7 million (1993)

Tuvalu:
  $165,000 (f.o.b., 1989)

Uganda:
  $500.1 million (f.o.b., 1999)

Ukraine:
  $14.6 billion (2000 est.)

United Arab Emirates:
  $46 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

United Kingdom:
  $282 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

United States:
  $776 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Uruguay:
  $2.6 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Uzbekistan:
  $2.9 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Vanuatu:
  $25.3 million (f.o.b., 1999)

Venezuela:
  $32.8 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Vietnam:
  $14.3 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Virgin Islands:
  $NA

Wallis and Futuna:
  $250,000 (f.o.b., 1999)

West Bank:
  $682 million (includes Gaza Strip) (f.o.b., 1998 est.)

Western Sahara:
  $NA

World:
  $6 trillion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Yemen:
  $4.2 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Yugoslavia:
  $1.5 billion (1999)

Zambia:
  $928 million (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Zimbabwe:
  $1.8 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Taiwan:
  $148.38 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

======================================================================

@Exports - commodities



Afghanistan:
  opium, fruits and nuts, handwoven carpets, wool,
  cotton, hides and pelts, precious and semi-precious gems

Albania:
  textiles and footwear; asphalt, metals and metallic ores,
  crude oil; vegetables, fruits, tobacco

Algeria:
  petroleum, natural gas, and petroleum products 97%

American Samoa:
  canned tuna 93%

Andorra:
  tobacco products, furniture

Angola:
  crude oil 90%, diamonds, refined petroleum products, gas,
  coffee, sisal, fish and fish products, timber, cotton

Anguilla:
  lobster, fish, livestock, salt

Antigua and Barbuda:
  petroleum products 48%, manufactures 23%,
  machinery and transport equipment 17%, food and live animals 4%,
  other 8%

Argentina:
  edible oils, fuels and energy, cereals, feed, motor
  vehicles

Armenia:
  diamonds, scrap metal, machinery and equipment, brandy,
  copper ore

Aruba:
  live animals and animal products, art and collectibles,
  machinery and electrical equipment, transport equipment

Australia:
  coal, gold, meat, wool, alumina, iron ore, wheat,
  machinery and transport equipment

Austria:
  machinery and equipment, paper and paperboard, metal goods,
  chemicals, iron and steel; textiles, foodstuffs

Azerbaijan:
  oil and gas 75%, machinery, cotton, foodstuffs

Bahamas, The:
  pharmaceuticals, cement, rum, crawfish, refined
  petroleum products

Bahrain:
  petroleum and petroleum products 61%, aluminum 7%

Bangladesh:
  garments, jute and jute goods, leather, frozen fish and
  seafood

Barbados:
  sugar and molasses, rum, other foods and beverages,
  chemicals, electrical components, clothing

Belarus:
  machinery and equipment, chemicals, metals, textiles,
  foodstuffs

Belgium:
  machinery and equipment, chemicals, diamonds, metals and
  metal products

Belize:
  sugar, bananas, citrus, clothing, fish products, molasses,
  wood

Benin:
  cotton, crude oil, palm products, cocoa

Bermuda:
  reexports of pharmaceuticals

Bhutan:
  cardamom, gypsum, timber, handicrafts, cement, fruit,
  electricity (to India), precious stones, spices

Bolivia:
  soybeans, natural gas, zinc, gold, wood

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  NA

Botswana:
  diamonds 72%, vehicles, copper, nickel, meat (1998)

Brazil:
  manufactures, iron ore, soybeans, footwear, coffee

British Virgin Islands:
  rum, fresh fish, fruits, animals; gravel,
  sand

Brunei:
  crude oil, natural gas, refined products

Bulgaria:
  clothing, footwear, iron and steel, machinery and
  equipment, fuels

Burkina Faso:
  cotton, animal products, gold

Burma:
  apparel 36%, foodstuffs 22%, wood products 21%, precious
  stones 5% (1999)

Burundi:
  coffee, tea, sugar, cotton, hides

Cambodia:
  timber, garments, rubber, rice, fish

Cameroon:
  crude oil and petroleum products, lumber, cocoa beans,
  aluminum, coffee, cotton

Canada:
  motor vehicles and parts, newsprint, wood pulp, timber,
  crude petroleum, machinery, natural gas, aluminum,
  telecommunications equipment, electricity

Cape Verde:
  fuel, shoes, garments, fish, bananas, hides

Cayman Islands:
  turtle products, manufactured consumer goods

Central African Republic:
  diamonds, timber, cotton, coffee, tobacco

Chad:
  cotton, cattle, textiles

Chile:
  copper, fish, fruits, paper and pulp, chemicals

China:
  machinery and equipment; textiles and clothing, footwear,
  toys and sporting goods; mineral fuels

Christmas Island:
  phosphate

Cocos (Keeling) Islands:
  copra

Colombia:
  petroleum, coffee, coal, apparel, bananas, cut flowers

Comoros:
  vanilla, ylang-ylang, cloves, perfume oil, copra

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  diamonds, copper, coffee, cobalt,
  crude oil

Congo, Republic of the:
  petroleum 50%, lumber, plywood, sugar,
  cocoa, coffee, diamonds

Cook Islands:
  copra, papayas, fresh and canned citrus fruit, coffee;
  fish; pearls and pearl shells; clothing

Costa Rica:
  coffee, bananas, sugar; pineapples; textiles, electronic
  components, medical equipment

Cote d'Ivoire:
  cocoa 33%, coffee, tropical woods, petroleum, cotton,
  bananas, pineapples, palm oil, cotton, fish (1999)

Croatia:
  transport equipment, textiles, chemicals, foodstuffs, fuels

Cuba:
  sugar, nickel, tobacco, fish, medical products, citrus, coffee

Cyprus:
  Greek Cypriot area: citrus, potatoes, grapes, wine, cement,
  clothing and shoes; Turkish Cypriot area: citrus, potatoes, textiles

Czech Republic:
  machinery and transport equipment 44%, other
  manufactured goods 40%, chemicals 7%, raw materials and fuel 7%
  (1999)

Denmark:
  machinery and instruments, meat and meat products, dairy
  products, fish, chemicals, furniture, ships, windmills

Djibouti:
  reexports, hides and skins, coffee (in transit)

Dominica:
  bananas, soap, bay oil, vegetables, grapefruit, oranges

Dominican Republic:
  ferronickel, sugar, gold, silver, coffee, cocoa,
  tobacco, meats

Ecuador:
  petroleum, bananas, shrimp, coffee, cocoa, cut flowers, fish

Egypt:
  crude oil and petroleum products, cotton, textiles, metal
  products, chemicals

El Salvador:
  offshore assembly exports, coffee, sugar, shrimp,
  textiles, chemicals, electricity

Equatorial Guinea:
  petroleum, timber, cocoa

Eritrea:
  livestock, sorghum, textiles, food, small manufactures

Estonia:
  machinery and equipment 24%, wood products 20%, textiles
  17%, food products 9%, metals, chemical products (1999)

Ethiopia:
  coffee, gold, leather products, oilseeds, qat

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas):
  wool, hides, meat

Faroe Islands:
  fish and fish products 94%, stamps, ships (1999)

Fiji:
  sugar, garments, gold, timber, fish

Finland:
  machinery and equipment, chemicals, metals; timber, paper,
  pulp

France:
  machinery and transportation equipment, aircraft, plastics,
  chemicals, pharmaceutical products, iron and steel, beverages

French Guiana:
  shrimp, timber, gold, rum, rosewood essence, clothing

French Polynesia:
  cultured pearls 50%, coconut products,
  mother-of-pearl, vanilla, shark meat (1997)

Gabon:
  crude oil 75%, timber, manganese, uranium (1998)

Gambia, The:
  peanuts and peanut products, fish, cotton lint, palm
  kernels

Gaza Strip:
  citrus, flowers

Georgia:
  citrus fruits, tea, wine, other agricultural products;
  diverse types of machinery and metals; chemicals; fuel reexports;
  textiles

Germany:
  machinery, vehicles, chemicals, metals and manufactures,
  foodstuffs, textiles

Ghana:
  gold, cocoa, timber, tuna, bauxite, aluminum, manganese ore,
  diamonds

Gibraltar:
  (principally reexports) petroleum 51%, manufactured goods
  41%, other 8%

Greece:
  manufactured goods, food and beverages, petroleum products

Greenland:
  fish and fish products 94%

Grenada:
  bananas, cocoa, nutmeg, fruit and vegetables, clothing, mace

Guadeloupe:
  bananas, sugar, rum

Guam:
  mostly transshipments of refined petroleum products;
  construction materials, fish, food and beverage products

Guatemala:
  coffee, sugar, bananas, fruits and vegetables, cardamom,
  meat, apparel, petroleum, electricity

Guernsey:
  tomatoes, flowers and ferns, sweet peppers, eggplant,
  other vegetables

Guinea:
  bauxite, alumina, gold, diamonds, coffee, fish, agricultural
  products

Guinea-Bissau:
  cashew nuts 70%, shrimp, peanuts, palm kernels, sawn
  lumber (1996)

Guyana:
  sugar, gold, bauxite/alumina, rice, shrimp, molasses, rum,
  timber

Haiti:
  manufactures, coffee, oils, mangoes

Honduras:
  coffee, bananas, shrimp, lobster, meat; zinc, lumber

Hong Kong:
  clothing, textiles, footwear, electrical appliances,
  watches and clocks, toys

Hungary:
  machinery and equipment 59.5%, other manufactures 29.4%,
  food products 6.9%, raw materials 2.4%, fuels and electricity 1.8%
  (2000)

Iceland:
  fish and fish products 70%, animal products, aluminum,
  diatomite, ferrosilicon

India:
  textile goods, gems and jewelry, engineering goods,
  chemicals, leather manufactures

Indonesia:
  oil and gas, plywood, textiles, rubber

Iran:
  petroleum 85%, carpets, fruits and nuts, iron and steel,
  chemicals

Iraq:
  crude oil

Ireland:
  machinery and equipment, computers, chemicals,
  pharmaceuticals; live animals, animal products

Israel:
  machinery and equipment, software, cut diamonds,
  agricultural products, chemicals, textiles and apparel

Italy:
  engineering products, textiles and clothing, production
  machinery, motor vehicles, transport equipment, chemicals; food,
  beverages and tobacco; minerals and nonferrous metals

Jamaica:
  alumina, bauxite; sugar, bananas, rum

Japan:
  motor vehicles, semiconductors, office machinery, chemicals

Jersey:
  light industrial and electrical goods, foodstuffs, textiles

Jordan:
  phosphates, fertilizers, potash, agricultural products,
  manufactures

Kazakhstan:
  oil 40%, ferrous and nonferrous metals, machinery,
  chemicals, grain, wool, meat, coal

Kenya:
  tea, coffee, horticultural products, petroleum products,
  fish, cement

Kiribati:
  copra 62%, coconuts, seaweed, fish

Korea, North:
  minerals, metallurgical products, manufactures
  (including armaments); agricultural and fishery products

Korea, South:
  electronic products, machinery and equipment, motor
  vehicles, steel, ships; textiles, clothing, footwear; fish

Kuwait:
  oil and refined products, fertilizers

Kyrgyzstan:
  cotton, wool, meat, tobacco; gold, mercury, uranium,
  hydropower; machinery; shoes

Laos:
  wood products, garments, electricity, coffee, tin

Latvia:
  wood and wood products, machinery and equipment, metals,
  textiles, foodstuffs

Lebanon:
  foodstuffs and tobacco, textiles, chemicals, precious
  stones, metal and metal products, electrical equipment and products,
  jewelry, paper and paper products

Lesotho:
  manufactures 75% (clothing, footwear, road vehicles), wool
  and mohair, food and live animals (1998)

Liberia:
  diamonds, iron ore, rubber, timber, coffee, cocoa

Libya:
  crude oil, refined petroleum products

Liechtenstein:
  small specialty machinery, dental products, stamps,
  hardware, pottery

Lithuania:
  machinery and equipment 22%, mineral products 15%,
  chemicals 12%, textiles and clothing, foodstuffs (1999)

Luxembourg:
  machinery and equipment, steel products, chemicals,
  rubber products, glass

Macau:
  textiles, clothing, toys, electronics, cement, footwear,
  machinery

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  food, beverages,
  tobacco; miscellaneous manufactures, iron and steel

Madagascar:
  coffee, vanilla, shellfish, sugar; cotton cloth,
  chromite, petroleum products

Malawi:
  tobacco, tea, sugar, cotton, coffee, peanuts, wood products

Malaysia:
  electronic equipment, petroleum and liquefied natural gas,
  chemicals, palm oil, wood and wood products, rubber, textiles

Maldives:
  fish, clothing

Mali:
  cotton 50%, gold, livestock (1999 est.)

Malta:
  machinery and transport equipment, manufactures

Man, Isle of:
  tweeds, herring, processed shellfish, beef, lamb

Marshall Islands:
  fish, coconut oil, trochus shells

Martinique:
  refined petroleum products, bananas, rum, pineapples

Mauritania:
  iron ore, fish and fish products, gold

Mauritius:
  clothing and textiles, sugar, cut flowers, molasses

Mayotte:
  ylang-ylang (perfume essence), vanilla, copra, coconuts,
  coffee, cinnamon

Mexico:
  manufactured goods, oil and oil products, silver, fruits,
  vegetables, coffee, cotton

Micronesia, Federated States of:
  fish, garments, bananas, black
  pepper

Moldova:
  foodstuffs 57%, wine, tobacco; textiles and footwear,
  machinery (1999)

Mongolia:
  copper, livestock, animal products, cashmere, wool, hides,
  fluorspar, other nonferrous metals

Montserrat:
  electronic components, plastic bags, apparel, hot
  peppers, live plants, cattle

Morocco:
  phosphates and fertilizers, food and beverages, minerals

Mozambique:
  prawns 40%, cashews, cotton, sugar, citrus, timber; bulk
  electricity (2000)

Namibia:
  diamonds, copper, gold, zinc, lead, uranium; cattle,
  processed fish, karakul skins

Nauru:
  phosphates

Nepal:
  carpets, clothing, leather goods, jute goods, grain

Netherlands:
  machinery and equipment, chemicals, fuels; foodstuffs

Netherlands Antilles:
  petroleum products

New Caledonia:
  ferronickels, nickel ore, fish

New Zealand:
  dairy products, meat, fish, wool, forestry products,
  manufactures

Nicaragua:
  coffee, shrimp and lobster, cotton, tobacco, beef, sugar,
  bananas; gold

Niger:
  uranium ore 65%, livestock products, cowpeas, onions (1998
  est.)

Nigeria:
  petroleum and petroleum products 95%, cocoa, rubber

Niue:
  canned coconut cream, copra, honey, passion fruit products,
  pawpaws, root crops, limes, footballs, stamps, handicrafts

Norfolk Island:
  postage stamps, seeds of the Norfolk Island pine and
  Kentia palm, small quantities of avocados

Northern Mariana Islands:
  garments

Norway:
  petroleum and petroleum products, machinery and equipment,
  metals, chemicals, ships, fish

Oman:
  petroleum, reexports, fish, metals, textiles

Pakistan:
  textiles (garments, cotton cloth, and yarn), rice, other
  agricultural products

Palau:
  trochus (type of shellfish), tuna, copra, handicrafts

Panama:
  bananas, shrimp, sugar, coffee, clothing

Papua New Guinea:
  oil, gold, copper ore, logs, palm oil, coffee,
  cocoa, crayfish, prawns

Paraguay:
  electricity, soybeans, feed, cotton, meat, edible oils

Peru:
  fish and fish products, copper, zinc, gold, crude petroleum
  and byproducts, lead, coffee, sugar, cotton

Philippines:
  electronic equipment, machinery and transport
  equipment, garments, coconut products

Pitcairn Islands:
  fruits, vegetables, curios, stamps

Poland:
  machinery and transport equipment 30.2%, intermediate
  manufactured goods 25.5%, miscellaneous manufactured goods 20.9%,
  food and live animals 8.5% (1999)

Portugal:
  clothing and footwear, machinery, chemicals, cork and
  paper products, hides

Puerto Rico:
  pharmaceuticals, electronics, apparel, canned tuna,
  rum, beverage concentrates, medical equipment

Qatar:
  petroleum products 80%, fertilizers, steel

Reunion:
  sugar 63%, rum and molasses 4%, perfume essences 2%,
  lobster 3%, (1993)

Romania:
  textiles and footwear 26%, metals and metal products 15%,
  machinery and equipment 11%, minerals and fuels 6% (1999)

Russia:
  petroleum and petroleum products, natural gas, wood and wood
  products, metals, chemicals, and a wide variety of civilian and
  military manufactures

Rwanda:
  coffee, tea, hides, tin ore

Saint Helena:
  fish (frozen, canned, and salt-dried skipjack, tuna),
  coffee, handicrafts

Saint Kitts and Nevis:
  machinery, food, electronics, beverages,
  tobacco

Saint Lucia:
  bananas 41%, clothing, cocoa, vegetables, fruits,
  coconut oil

Saint Pierre and Miquelon:
  fish and fish products, soybeans, animal
  feed, mollusks and crustaceans, fox and mink pelts

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:
  bananas 39%, eddoes and dasheen
  (taro), arrowroot starch, tennis racquets

Samoa:
  coconut oil and cream, copra, fish, beer

San Marino:
  building stone, lime, wood, chestnuts, wheat, wine,
  baked goods, hides, ceramics

Sao Tome and Principe:
  cocoa 90%, copra, coffee, palm oil

Saudi Arabia:
  petroleum and petroleum products 90%

Senegal:
  fish, ground nuts (peanuts), petroleum products,
  phosphates, cotton

Seychelles:
  fish, cinnamon bark, copra, petroleum products
  (reexports)

Sierra Leone:
  diamonds, rutile, cocoa, coffee, fish

Singapore:
  machinery and equipment (including electronics),
  chemicals, mineral fuels

Slovakia:
  machinery and transport equipment 39.4%, intermediate
  manufactured goods 27.5%, miscellaneous manufactured goods 13%,
  chemicals 8% (1999)

Slovenia:
  manufactured goods, machinery and transport equipment,
  chemicals, food

Solomon Islands:
  timber, fish, palm oil, cocoa, copra

Somalia:
  livestock, bananas, hides, fish (1999)

South Africa:
  gold, diamonds, other metals and minerals, machinery
  and equipment

Spain:
  machinery, motor vehicles; foodstuffs, other consumer goods

Sri Lanka:
  textiles and apparel, tea, diamonds, coconut products,
  petroleum products

Sudan:
  oil and petroleum products, cotton, sesame, livestock,
  groundnuts, gum arabic, sugar

Suriname:
  alumina, crude oil, lumber, shrimp and fish, rice, bananas

Swaziland:
  soft drink concentrates, sugar, wood pulp, cotton yarn,
  refrigerators, citrus and canned fruit

Sweden:
  machinery 35%, motor vehicles, paper products, pulp and
  wood, iron and steel products, chemicals

Switzerland:
  machinery, chemicals, metals, watches, agricultural
  products

Syria:
  petroleum 65%, textiles 10%, manufactured goods 10%, fruits
  and vegetables 7%, raw cotton 5%, live sheep 2%, phosphates 1% (1998
  est.)

Tajikistan:
  aluminum, electricity, cotton, fruits, vegetable oil,
  textiles

Tanzania:
  coffee, manufactured goods, cotton, cashew nuts, minerals,
  tobacco, sisal (1996)

Thailand:
  computers and parts, textiles, integrated circuits, rice

Togo:
  cotton, phosphates, coffee, cocoa

Tokelau:
  stamps, copra, handicrafts

Tonga:
  squash, fish, vanilla beans

Trinidad and Tobago:
  petroleum and petroleum products, chemicals,
  steel products, fertilizer, sugar, cocoa, coffee, citrus, flowers

Tunisia:
  textiles, mechanical goods, phosphates and chemicals,
  agricultural products, hydrocarbons

Turkey:
  apparel 25.6%, foodstuffs 15.4%, textiles 12.3%, metal
  manufactures 8.6%, transport equipment 8.1% (1998)

Turkmenistan:
  gas 33%, oil 30%, cotton fiber 18%, textiles 8% (1999)

Turks and Caicos Islands:
  lobster, dried and fresh conch, conch
  shells

Tuvalu:
  copra

Uganda:
  coffee, fish and fish products, tea; electrical products,
  iron and steel

Ukraine:
  ferrous and nonferrous metals, fuel and petroleum products,
  machinery and transport equipment, food products

United Arab Emirates:
  crude oil 45%, natural gas, reexports, dried
  fish, dates

United Kingdom:
  manufactured goods, fuels, chemicals; food,
  beverages, tobacco

United States:
  capital goods, automobiles, industrial supplies and
  raw materials, consumer goods, agricultural products

Uruguay:
  meat, rice, leather products, vehicles, dairy products,
  wool, electricity

Uzbekistan:
  cotton, gold, natural gas, mineral fertilizers, ferrous
  metals, textiles, food products, automobiles

Vanuatu:
  copra, kava, beef, cocoa, timber, coffee

Venezuela:
  petroleum, bauxite and aluminum, steel, chemicals,
  agricultural products, basic manufactures

Vietnam:
  crude oil, marine products, rice, coffee, rubber, tea,
  garments, shoes

Virgin Islands:
  refined petroleum products

Wallis and Futuna:
  copra, chemicals, construction materials

West Bank:
  olives, fruit, vegetables, limestone

Western Sahara:
  phosphates 62%

World:
  the whole range of industrial and agricultural goods and
  services

Yemen:
  crude oil, coffee, dried and salted fish

Yugoslavia:
  manufactured goods, food and live animals, raw materials

Zambia:
  copper, cobalt, electricity, tobacco

Zimbabwe:
  tobacco 29%, gold 7%, ferroalloys 7%, cotton 5% (1999 est.)

Taiwan:
  machinery and electrical equipment 51%, metals, textiles,
  plastics, chemicals

======================================================================

@Exports - partners



Afghanistan:
  FSU, Pakistan, Iran, Germany, India, UK, Belgium,
  Luxembourg, Czech Republic

Albania:
  Italy 67%, Greece 15%, Germany 5%, Austria 2%, The Former
  Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia 2% (2000)

Algeria:
  Italy 22%, US 15%, France 12%, Spain 11%, Brazil 8%,
  Netherlands 5% (1999)

American Samoa:
  US 99.6%

Andorra:
  France 34%, Spain 58% (1998)

Angola:
  US 54%, South Korea 14%, Benelux 11%, China 7%, Taiwan 6%
  (1999)

Anguilla:
  NA

Antigua and Barbuda:
  OECS 26%, Barbados 15%, Guyana 4%, Trinidad and
  Tobago 2%, US 0.3%

Argentina:
  Brazil 24%, EU 21%, US 11% (1999 est.)

Armenia:
  Belgium 36%, Iran 15%, Russia 14%, US 7%, Turkmenistan,
  Georgia (1999)

Aruba:
  US 42%, Colombia 20%, Netherlands 12% (1999)

Australia:
  Japan 19%, EU 14%, ASEAN 12%, US 9%, South Korea, NZ,
  Taiwan, Hong Kong, China (1999)

Austria:
  EU 64.2% (Germany 35.7%, Italy 8.7%, France 4.5%),
  Switzerland 5.9%, US 4.5%, Hungary 3.9% (1999)

Azerbaijan:
  Italy, Turkey, Russia, Georgia, Iran

Bahamas, The:
  US 22.3%, Switzerland 15.6%, UK 15%, Denmark 7.4%
  (1998)

Bahrain:
  India 14%, Saudi Arabia 5%, US 5%, UAE 5%, Japan 4%, South
  Korea 4% (1999)

Bangladesh:
  US 31.2%, Germany 9.95%, UK 8.06%, France 5.82%, Italy
  4.42% (1999)

Barbados:
  UK 14.8%, US 11.6%, Trinidad and Tobago 7.6%, Venezuela
  6.1%, Jamaica 5.8% (1998)

Belarus:
  Russia 66%, Ukraine, Poland, Germany, Lithuania (1998)

Belgium:
  EU 76% (Germany 18%, France 18%, Netherlands 12%, UK 10%)
  (1999)

Belize:
  US 42%, UK 33%, EU 12%, Caricom 4.8%, Canada 2%, Mexico 1%
  (1999)

Benin:
  Brazil 14%, Libya 5%, Indonesia 4%, Italy 4% (1999)

Bermuda:
  UK 29.5%, US 9.8% (1997)

Bhutan:
  India 94%, Bangladesh

Bolivia:
  UK 16%, US 12%, Peru 11%, Argentina 10%, Colombia 7% (1998)

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  Croatia, Switzerland, Italy, Germany

Botswana:
  EU 77%, Southern African Customs Union (SACU) 18%,
  Zimbabwe 3% (1998)

Brazil:
  US 23%, Argentina 11%, Germany 5%, Netherlands 5%, Japan 5%
  (1999)

British Virgin Islands:
  Virgin Islands (US), Puerto Rico, US

Brunei:
  Japan 42%, US 17%, South Korea 14%, Thailand 3% (1999)

Bulgaria:
  Italy 14%, Turkey 10%, Germany 9%, Greece 8%, Yugoslavia
  8%, Belgium 6%, France 5%, US 4% (2000)

Burkina Faso:
  Italy 13%, France 10%, Indonesia 8%, Thailand 7% (1999)

Burma:
  India 13%, Singapore 11%, China 11%, US 8% (1999 est.)

  note:  official trade statistics do not include trade in illicit
  goods - such as narcotics, teak, and gems - or the largely
  unrecorded border trade with China and Thailand

Burundi:
  Germany 17%, Belgium 14%, US 8%, France 6%, Switzerland 4%
  (1999)

Cambodia:
  Vietnam 18%, Thailand 15%, US 10%, Singapore 8%, China 5%
  (1997)

Cameroon:
  Italy 24%, France 18%, Netherlands 10% (2000 est.)

Canada:
  US 86%, Japan 3%, UK, Germany, South Korea, Netherlands,
  China (1999)

Cape Verde:
  Portugal, UK, Germany, Spain, France, Malaysia

Cayman Islands:
  mostly US

Central African Republic:
  Benelux 64%, Cote d'Ivoire, Spain, China,
  Egypt, France (1999)

Chad:
  Portugal 38%, Germany 12%, Thailand, Costa Rica, South Africa,
  France (1999)

Chile:
  EU 27%, US 16%, Japan 14%, Brazil 6%, Argentina 5% (1998)

China:
  US 21%, Hong Kong 18%, Japan 17%, South Korea, Germany,
  Netherlands, UK, Singapore, Taiwan (2000)

Christmas Island:
  Australia, NZ

Cocos (Keeling) Islands:
  Australia

Colombia:
  US 50%, EU 14%, Andean Community of Nations 16%, Japan 2%
  (2000 est.)

Comoros:
  France 50%, Germany 25% (1998)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  Benelux 62%, US 18%, South
  Africa, Finland, Italy (1999)

Congo, Republic of the:
  US 23%, Benelux 14%, Germany, Italy, Taiwan,
  China (1998)

Cook Islands:
  Japan 42%, New Zealand 25%, US 9%, Australia 9% (1999)

Costa Rica:
  US 54.1%, EU 21.3%, Central America 8.6% (1999)

Cote d'Ivoire:
  France 15%, US 8%, Netherlands 7%, Germany 6%, Italy
  6% (1999)

Croatia:
  Italy 18%, Germany 15.7%, Bosnia and Herzegovina 12.8%,
  Slovenia 10.6%, Austria 6.2% (1999)

Cuba:
  Russia 23%, Netherlands 23%, Canada 13% (1999)

Cyprus:
  Greek Cypriot area: UK 17.3%, Greece 9.7%, Russia 7.0%,
  Lebanon 5.2% (1999); Turkish Cypriot area: Turkey 51%, UK 31%, other
  EU 16.5% (1999)

Czech Republic:
  Germany 43%, Slovakia 8.4%, Austria 6.6%, Poland
  5.6%, France 4% (1999)

Denmark:
  EU 66.5% (Germany 20.1%, Sweden 11.7%, UK 9.6%, France
  5.3%, Netherlands 4.7%), Norway 5.8%, US 5.4% (1999)

Djibouti:
  Somalia 53%, Yemen 23%, Ethiopia 5%, (1998)

Dominica:
  Caricom countries 47%, UK 36%, US 7% (1996 est.)

Dominican Republic:
  US 66.1%, Netherlands 7.8%, Canada 7.6%, Russia
  7.4%, UK 4.5% (1999 est.)

Ecuador:
  US 37%, Colombia 5%, Italy 5%, Chile 5%, Peru 4% (1999)

Egypt:
  EU 35%, Middle East 17%, Afro-Asian countries 14%, US 12%
  (1999)

El Salvador:
  US 63%, Guatemala 11%, Honduras 7%, Costa Rica 4% (1999)

Equatorial Guinea:
  US 62%, Spain 17%, China 9%, France 3%, Japan 3%,
  (1997)

Eritrea:
  Sudan 27.2%, Ethiopia 26.5%, Japan 13.2%, UAE 7.3%, Italy
  5.3% (1998)

Estonia:
  Finland 19.4%, Sweden 18.8%, Russia 9.2%, Latvia 8.7%,
  Germany 7.5%, US 2.5% (1999)

Ethiopia:
  Germany 16%, Japan 13%, Djibouti 10%, Saudi Arabia 7%
  (1999 est.)

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas):
  UK, Japan, Chile, NZ

Faroe Islands:
  Denmark 32%, UK 21%, France 9%, Germany 7%, Iceland
  5%, US 5% (1996)

Fiji:
  Australia 33.1%, US 14.8%, UK 13.8%, other Pacific island
  countries 8.8%, NZ 4.5%, Japan 4.5% (1999)

Finland:
  EU 58% (Germany 13%, Sweden 10%, UK 9%, France 5%,
  Netherlands 4%), US 8%, Russia, Japan (1999)

France:
  EU 63% (Germany 16%, UK 10%, Spain 9%, Italy 9%,
  Belgium-Luxembourg 8%), US 8% (1999)

French Guiana:
  France 62%, Switzerland 7%, US 2% (1997)

French Polynesia:
  Japan 62%, US 21% (1999)

Gabon:
  US 47%, France 19%, China 8%, Japan 1.3% (1999)

Gambia, The:
  Benelux 59%, Japan 20%, UK 7%, Spain 2% (1999)

Gaza Strip:
  Israel, Egypt, West Bank

Georgia:
  Russia 19%, Turkey 16%, Azerbaijan 8%, Armenia 6% (1999)

Germany:
  EU 55.3% (France 11.3%, UK 8.3%, Italy 7.3%, Netherlands
  6.3%, Belgium/Luxembourg 5.1%), US 10.1%, Japan 2.0% (1999)

Ghana:
  Togo, UK, Italy, Netherlands, Germany, US, France (1998)

Gibraltar:
  UK, Morocco, Portugal, Netherlands, Spain, US, Germany

Greece:
  EU 49% (Germany 15%, Italy 13%, UK 6%), US 6% (1999)

Greenland:
  EU (mainly Denmark) 85%, Japan 8%, US 2% (1999)

Grenada:
  Caricom 32.3%, UK 20%, US 13%, Netherlands 8.8% (1991)

Guadeloupe:
  France 60%, Martinique 18%, US 4% (1997)

Guam:
  US 25%

Guatemala:
  US 51.4%, El Salvador 8.7%, Honduras 5%, Costa Rica 3.4%,
  Germany 2.7% (1998)

Guernsey:
  UK (regarded as internal trade)

Guinea:
  US, Benelux, Ukraine, Ireland (1999)

Guinea-Bissau:
  India 59%, Singapore 12%, Italy 10% (1998)

Guyana:
  US 22%, Canada 22%, UK 18%, Netherlands Antilles 11%,
  Jamaica (1999)

Haiti:
  US 89%, EU 8% (1999)

Honduras:
  US 35.4%, Germany 7.5%, El Salvador 6.4%, Guatemala 5.8%,
  Nicaragua 4.8% (1999)

Hong Kong:
  China 33%, US 24%, Japan 5%, UK 4%, Germany, Singapore
  (1999)

Hungary:
  Germany 37%, Austria 9%, Italy 6%, Netherlands 5% (2000)

Iceland:
  EU 64% (UK 20%, Germany 13%, France 5%, Denmark 5%), US
  15%, Japan 5% (1999)

India:
  US 22%, UK 6%, Germany 5%, Japan 5%, Hong Kong 5%, UAE 4%
  (1999)

Indonesia:
  Japan 21%, US 14%, Singapore 10%, South Korea 7%,
  Netherlands 3%, Australia 3%, Hong Kong, China, Taiwan (1999 est.)

Iran:
  Japan, Italy, UAE, South Korea, France, China

Iraq:
  Russia, France, Switzerland, China (2000)

Ireland:
  EU 59% (UK 19%, Germany 9%, France 7%), US 20% (2000)

Israel:
  US 36%, UK 6%, Benelux 5%, Hong Kong 4%, Netherlands 4%
  (1999)

Italy:
  EU 56.8% (Germany 16.4%, France 12.9%, Netherlands 7.1%,
  Spain 6.3%, Netherlands 2.9%), US 9.5% (1999)

Jamaica:
  US 35.7%, EU (excluding UK) 15.8%, UK 13%, Canada 10.5%
  (1999)

Japan:
  US 30%, Taiwan 7%, South Korea 6.4%, China 6.2%, Hong Kong
  5.6% (2000 est.)

Jersey:
  UK

Jordan:
  India, Iraq, Saudi Arabia, EU, Indonesia, UAE, Lebanon,
  Kuwait, Syria, Ethiopia

Kazakhstan:
  EU 23%, Russia 20%, China 8% (1999)

Kenya:
  Uganda 18%, UK 15%, Tanzania 12%, Pakistan 8% (1999)

Kiribati:
  Bangladesh, Australia, US, Hong Kong (1999)

Korea, North:
  Japan 28%, South Korea 21%, China 5%, Germany 4%,
  Russia 1% (1995)

Korea, South:
  US 20.5%, Japan 11%, China 9.5%, Hong Kong 6.3%,
  Taiwan 4.4% (1999)

Kuwait:
  Japan 23%, US 12%, Singapore 8%, Netherlands 7% (1999)

Kyrgyzstan:
  Germany 33%, Russia 16%, Kazakhstan 10%, Uzbekistan 10%,
  China 6% (1999)

Laos:
  Vietnam, Thailand, Germany, France, Belgium

Latvia:
  Germany 16%, UK 11%, Sweden 11%, Russia 7% (1999)

Lebanon:
  UAE 9%, Saudi Arabia 8%, Syria 6%, US 6%, Kuwait 6%, France
  5%, Belgium 5%, Jordan 4% (1999)

Lesotho:
  South African Customs Union 65%, North America 34% (1998)

Liberia:
  Belgium 53%, Switzerland 9%, US 6%, France 4% (1999)

Libya:
  Italy 33%, Germany 24%, Spain 10%, France 5%, Turkey 4%,
  Tunisia 4% (1999)

Liechtenstein:
  EU and EFTA countries 60.57% (Switzerland 15.7%)
  (1995)

Lithuania:
  Germany 15.8%, Latvia 12.6%, Russia 6.9%, Belarus 5.8%,
  Denmark (1999)

Luxembourg:
  EU 75% (Germany 25%, France 21%, Belgium 13%, UK 8%,
  Italy 6%, Netherlands 5%), US 4% (1999)

Macau:
  US 47%, EU 30%, China 9.2%, Hong Kong 6.7% (1999)

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  Germany 22%, Yugoslavia
  22%, US 12%, Greece 7%, Italy 6% (2000)

Madagascar:
  France 41%, US 19%, Germany 13%, UK 8%, Japan 6% (1999)

Malawi:
  South Africa 16%, Germany 16%, US 15%, Netherlands 7%, Japan
  (1999)

Malaysia:
  US 21%, Singapore 18%, Japan 13%, Hong Kong 5%,
  Netherlands 4%, Taiwan 4%, Thailand 3% (2000 est.)

Maldives:
  US, UK, Sri Lanka, Japan

Mali:
  Italy 18%, Thailand 15%, Germany 7%, Portugal 4% (1999)

Malta:
  US 21.4%, France 15.2%, Germany 12.6%, UK 9.3%, Italy 4.9%
  (1999)

Man, Isle of:
  UK

Marshall Islands:
  US, Japan, Australia

Martinique:
  France 45%, Guadeloupe 28% (1997)

Mauritania:
  Japan 18%, France 17%, Italy 16%, Spain 11% (1998)

Mauritius:
  UK 32%, France 19%, US 15%, Germany 6%, Italy 4% (1999
  est.)

Mayotte:
  France 80%, Comoros 15%, Reunion

Mexico:
  US 88.6%, Canada 2%, Spain 0.9%, Germany 0.9%, Japan 0.6%,
  UK 0.6%, Netherlands Antilles 0.5%, Switzerland 0.3% Venezuela 0.3%,
  Chile 0.3% (2000 est.)

Micronesia, Federated States of:
  Japan, US, Guam

Moldova:
  Russia 41%, Romania 9%, Germany 8%, Ukraine 7%, Italy,
  Belarus (1999)

Mongolia:
  China 60%, US 20%, Russia 9%, Japan 2% (2000 est.)

Montserrat:
  US, Antigua and Barbuda (1993)

Morocco:
  France 35%, Spain 9%, UK 8%, Germany 7%, US 5% (1999)

Mozambique:
  EU 27%, South Africa 26%, Zimbabwe 15%, India 12%, US
  5%, Japan 4% (1999 est.)

Namibia:
  UK 43%, South Africa 26%, Spain 14%, France 8%, Japan (1998
  est.)

Nauru:
  Australia, NZ

Nepal:
  India 33%, US 26%, Germany 25% (FY97/98)

Netherlands:
  EU 78% (Germany 26%, Belgium-Luxembourg 12%, France
  12%, UK 11%, Italy 6%), Central and Eastern Europe, US (2000)

Netherlands Antilles:
  US 17.5%, Guatemala 8%, Costa Rica 6.5%, The
  Bahamas 4.6%, Jamaica 4.1%, Chile 3.4% (1998)

New Caledonia:
  Japan 27%, France 17%, Taiwan 12%, South Korea 9%
  (1999)

New Zealand:
  Australia 22%, US 14%, Japan 13%, UK 7% (1999)

Nicaragua:
  US 37.7%, El Salvador 12.5%, Germany 9.8%, Costa Rica
  5.1%, Spain 2.5%, France 2.1% (1999)

Niger:
  France 45%, Nigeria 27%, UK 11% (1999)

Nigeria:
  US 36%, India 9%, Spain 8%, Brazil 6%, France 6%, (1999)

Niue:
  NZ 89%, Fiji, Cook Islands, Australia

Norfolk Island:
  Australia, other Pacific island countries, NZ, Asia,
  Europe

Northern Mariana Islands:
  US

Norway:
  EU 73% (UK 17%, Germany 11%, Netherlands 10%, Sweden 9%), US
  5% (1999)

Oman:
  Japan 27%, China 12%, Thailand 18%, UAE 12%, South Korea 12%,
  US (1999)

Pakistan:
  US 24%, Hong Kong 7%, UK 7%, Germany 6%, UAE 6% (FY99/00)

Palau:
  US, Japan

Panama:
  US 42%, Germany 11%, Costa Rica 5%, Benelux 4%, Italy 4%
  (1999)

Papua New Guinea:
  Australia 30%, Japan 12%, Germany 7%, South Korea
  4%, Philippines 3%, UK 3% (1999)

Paraguay:
  Brazil, Argentina, EU

Peru:
  US 29%, EU 25%, Andean Community 6%, Japan 4%, Mercosur 3%
  (1999)

Philippines:
  US 34%, Japan 14%, Netherlands 8%, Singapore 6%, UK 6%,
  Hong Kong 4% (1998)

Pitcairn Islands:
  NA

Poland:
  Germany 36.1%, Italy 6.5%, Netherlands 5.3%, France 4.8%, UK
  4.0%, Czech Republic 3.8% (1999)

Portugal:
  EU 83% (Germany 20%, Spain 18%, France 14%, UK 12%,
  Netherlands 5%, Benelux 5%, Italy), US 5% (1999)

Puerto Rico:
  US 88% (2000)

Qatar:
  Japan 52%, Singapore 9%, South Korea 8%, US, UAE (1998)

Reunion:
  France 74%, Japan 6%, Comoros 4% (1994)

Romania:
  Italy 23%, Germany 18%, France 6%, Turkey 5%, US (1999)

Russia:
  US 8.8%, Germany 8.5%, Ukraine 6.5%, Belarus 5.1%, Italy 5%,
  Netherlands 4.8% (1999)

Rwanda:
  Germany, Belgium, Pakistan, Italy, Kenya

Saint Helena:
  South Africa, UK

Saint Kitts and Nevis:
  US 68.5%, UK 22.3%, Caricom countries 5.5%
  (1995 est.)

Saint Lucia:
  UK 50%, US 24%, Caricom countries 16% (1995)

Saint Pierre and Miquelon:
  US 43%, Egypt 14%, Japan 11%, Colombia 8%
  (1999)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:
  Caricom countries 49%, UK 16%, US
  10% (1995)

Samoa:
  American Samoa 59%, US 18%, Germany 9%, New Zealand 8% (2000
  est.)

Sao Tome and Principe:
  Netherlands 18%, Germany 9%, Portugal 9%
  (1998)

Saudi Arabia:
  Japan 18%, US 18%, France 4%, South Korea, Singapore,
  India (1999)

Senegal:
  France 17%, India 17%, Italy 12%, Spain 6%, Mali 6%, Cote
  d'Ivoire 4% (1999)

Seychelles:
  France, UK, Netherlands, Italy, China, Germany, Japan

Sierra Leone:
  Belgium 38%, US 6%, Italy 4%, UK 4% (1999)

Singapore:
  US 19%, Malaysia 17%, Hong Kong 8%, Japan 7%, Taiwan 5%,
  Thailand 4%, UK 4%, Netherlands 3.8%, China 3%, South Korea 3%,
  Germany 3% (1999)

Slovakia:
  EU 59.7% (Germany 27.8%, Austria 8%, Italy 8.9%), Czech
  Republic 18.1% (1999)

Slovenia:
  Germany 31%, Italy 14%, Croatia 8%, Austria 7%, France 6%
  (1999)

Solomon Islands:
  Japan 35.5%, other Asian countries 47.3% (1999)

Somalia:
  Saudi Arabia 53%, Yemen 19%, UAE 14%, Italy 5%, Pakistan 2%
  (1999)

South Africa:
  UK, Italy, Japan, US, Germany

Spain:
  EU 71% (France 20%, Germany 12%, Italy 9%, Portugal 9%, UK
  8%), Latin America 6%, US 5% (2000)

Sri Lanka:
  US 39%, UK 13%, Middle East 8%, Germany 5%, Japan 4%
  (1999)

Sudan:
  Saudi Arabia 16%, Italy 10%, Germany 5%, France 3%, Thailand
  3% (1999)

Suriname:
  US 23%, Norway 19%, Netherlands 11%, France, Japan, UK
  (1999)

Swaziland:
  South Africa 65%, EU 12%, Mozambique 11%, US 5% (1998)

Sweden:
  EU 55% (Germany 11%, UK 10%, Denmark 6%, Finland 5%, France
  5%), US 9%, Norway 8% (1999)

Switzerland:
  EU 65.8% (Germany 22.6%, France 9.2%, Italy 8.0%, UK
  5.5%, Austria 3.2%), US 12.4%, Japan 4.0% (1999)

Syria:
  Germany 21%, Italy 12%, France 10%, Saudi Arabia 9%, Turkey
  8% (1999 est.)

Tajikistan:
  Liechtenstein 26%, Uzbekistan 20%, Russia 8% (1998)

Tanzania:
  India 20%, UK 10%, Germany 8%, Japan 8%, Netherlands 8%,
  Belgium 4% (1998)

Thailand:
  US 22%, Japan 14%, Singapore 9%, Hong Kong 5%, Netherlands
  4%, Malaysia 4%, UK 4% (1999)

Togo:
  Nigeria, Brazil, Canada, Philippines (1999)

Tokelau:
  NZ

Tonga:
  Japan 53%, US 18%, NZ 6%, Australia 6% (1997 est.)

Trinidad and Tobago:
  US 39.3%, Caricom countries 26.1%, Latin
  America 9.5%, EU 5.7% (1999)

Tunisia:
  Germany 28%, France 22%, Italy 17%, Belgium 5%, Libya 4%
  (1999)

Turkey:
  Germany 18.7%, US 11.4%, UK 7.4%, Italy 6.3%, France 6.0%
  (2000 est.)

Turkmenistan:
  Ukraine, Iran, Turkey, Russia, Kazakhstan, Tajikistan,
  Azerbaijan

Turks and Caicos Islands:
  US, UK

Tuvalu:
  Fiji, Australia, NZ

Uganda:
  Spain, Germany, Belgium, Netherlands, Hungary, Kenya (1999)

Ukraine:
  Russia 24%, Europe 30%, US 5% (2000 est.)

United Arab Emirates:
  Japan 30%, India 7%, Singapore 6%, South Korea
  4%, Oman, Iran (1999)

United Kingdom:
  EU 58% (Germany 12%, France 10%, Netherlands 8%), US
  15% (1999)

United States:
  Canada 23%, Mexico 14%, Japan 8%, UK 5%, Germany 4%,
  France, Netherlands (2000)

Uruguay:
  MERCOSUR partners 45%, EU 20%, US 7% (1999 est.)

Uzbekistan:
  Russia 13%, Switzerland 10%, UK 10%, Belgium 3%,
  Kazakhstan 4%, Tajikistan 4% (1999)

Vanuatu:
  Japan 32%, Germany 14%, Spain 8%, New Caledonia 7%,
  Australia 2% (1997 est.)

Venezuela:
  US and Puerto Rico 57%, Colombia, Brazil, Japan, Germany,
  Netherlands, Italy (1999)

Vietnam:
  China, Japan, Germany, Australia, US, France, Singapore,
  UK, Taiwan

Virgin Islands:
  US, Puerto Rico

Wallis and Futuna:
  Italy 40%, Croatia 15%, US 14%, Denmark 13%

West Bank:
  Israel, Jordan, Gaza Strip

Western Sahara:
  Morocco claims and administers Western Sahara, so
  trade partners are included in overall Moroccan accounts

World:
  in value, about 75% of exports from the developed countries

Yemen:
  Thailand 34%, China 26%, South Korea 14%, Japan 3% (1999)

Yugoslavia:
  Bosnia and Herzegovina, Italy, The Former Yugoslav
  Republic of Macedonia, Germany (1998)

Zambia:
  Japan, Saudi Arabia, India, Thailand, South Africa, US,
  Malaysia (1997)

Zimbabwe:
  South Africa 10%, UK 9%, Malawi 8%, Botswana 8%, Japan 7%,
  (1999 est.)

Taiwan:
  US 23.5%, Hong Kong 21.1%, Europe 16%, ASEAN 12.2%, Japan
  11.2% (2000)

======================================================================

@Fiscal year



Afghanistan:
  21 March - 20 March

Albania:
  calendar year

Algeria:
  calendar year

American Samoa:
  1 October - 30 September

Andorra:
  calendar year

Angola:
  calendar year

Anguilla:
  1 April - 31 March

Antigua and Barbuda:
  1 April - 31 March

Argentina:
  calendar year

Armenia:
  calendar year

Aruba:
  calendar year

Australia:
  1 July - 30 June

Austria:
  calendar year

Azerbaijan:
  calendar year

Bahamas, The:
  1 July - 30 June

Bahrain:
  calendar year

Bangladesh:
  1 July - 30 June

Barbados:
  1 April - 31 March

Belarus:
  calendar year

Belgium:
  calendar year

Belize:
  1 April - 31 March

Benin:
  calendar year

Bermuda:
  1 April - 31 March

Bhutan:
  1 July - 30 June

Bolivia:
  calendar year

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  calendar year

Botswana:
  1 April - 31 March

Brazil:
  calendar year

British Virgin Islands:
  1 April - 31 March

Brunei:
  calendar year

Bulgaria:
  calendar year

Burkina Faso:
  calendar year

Burma:
  1 April - 31 March

Burundi:
  calendar year

Cambodia:
  calendar year

Cameroon:
  1 July - 30 June

Canada:
  1 April - 31 March

Cape Verde:
  calendar year

Cayman Islands:
  1 April - 31 March

Central African Republic:
  calendar year

Chad:
  calendar year

Chile:
  calendar year

China:
  calendar year

Christmas Island:
  1 July - 30 June

Cocos (Keeling) Islands:
  1 July - 30 June

Colombia:
  calendar year

Comoros:
  calendar year

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  calendar year

Congo, Republic of the:
  calendar year

Cook Islands:
  1 April - 31 March

Costa Rica:
  calendar year

Cote d'Ivoire:
  calendar year

Croatia:
  calendar year

Cuba:
  calendar year

Cyprus:
  calendar year

Czech Republic:
  calendar year

Denmark:
  calendar year

Djibouti:
  calendar year

Dominica:
  1 July - 30 June

Dominican Republic:
  calendar year

Ecuador:
  calendar year

Egypt:
  1 July - 30 June

El Salvador:
  calendar year

Equatorial Guinea:
  1 April - 31 March

Eritrea:
  calendar year

Estonia:
  calendar year

Ethiopia:
  8 July - 7 July

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas):
  1 April - 31 March

Faroe Islands:
  calendar year

Fiji:
  calendar year

Finland:
  calendar year

France:
  calendar year

French Guiana:
  calendar year

French Polynesia:
  calendar year

Gabon:
  calendar year

Gambia, The:
  calendar year

Gaza Strip:
  calendar year

Georgia:
  calendar year

Germany:
  calendar year

Ghana:
  calendar year

Gibraltar:
  1 July - 30 June

Greece:
  calendar year

Greenland:
  calendar year

Grenada:
  calendar year

Guadeloupe:
  calendar year

Guam:
  1 October - 30 September

Guatemala:
  calendar year

Guernsey:
  calendar year

Guinea:
  calendar year

Guinea-Bissau:
  calendar year

Guyana:
  calendar year

Haiti:
  1 October - 30 September

Holy See (Vatican City):
  calendar year

Honduras:
  calendar year

Hong Kong:
  1 April - 31 March

Hungary:
  calendar year

Iceland:
  calendar year

India:
  1 April - 31 March

Indonesia:
  calendar year; note - previously was 1 April - 31 March,
  but starting with 2001, has been changed to calendar year

Iran:
  21 March - 20 March

Iraq:
  calendar year

Ireland:
  calendar year

Israel:
  calendar year

Italy:
  calendar year

Jamaica:
  1 April - 31 March

Japan:
  1 April - 31 March

Jersey:
  1 April - 31 March

Jordan:
  calendar year

Kazakhstan:
  calendar year

Kenya:
  1 July - 30 June

Kiribati:
  NA

Korea, North:
  calendar year

Korea, South:
  calendar year

Kuwait:
  1 April - 31 March

Kyrgyzstan:
  calendar year

Laos:
  1 October - 30 September

Latvia:
  calendar year

Lebanon:
  calendar year

Lesotho:
  1 April - 31 March

Liberia:
  calendar year

Libya:
  calendar year

Liechtenstein:
  calendar year

Lithuania:
  calendar year

Luxembourg:
  calendar year

Macau:
  calendar year

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  calendar year

Madagascar:
  calendar year

Malawi:
  1 July - 30 June

Malaysia:
  calendar year

Maldives:
  calendar year

Mali:
  calendar year

Malta:
  1 April - 31 March

Man, Isle of:
  1 April - 31 March

Marshall Islands:
  1 October - 30 September

Martinique:
  calendar year

Mauritania:
  calendar year

Mauritius:
  1 July - 30 June

Mayotte:
  calendar year

Mexico:
  calendar year

Micronesia, Federated States of:
  1 October - 30 September

Moldova:
  calendar year

Monaco:
  calendar year

Mongolia:
  calendar year

Montserrat:
  1 April - 31 March

Morocco:
  calendar year

Mozambique:
  calendar year

Namibia:
  1 April - 31 March

Nauru:
  1 July - 30 June

Nepal:
  16 July - 15 July

Netherlands:
  calendar year

Netherlands Antilles:
  calendar year

New Caledonia:
  calendar year

New Zealand:
  1 July - 30 June

Nicaragua:
  calendar year

Niger:
  calendar year

Nigeria:
  calendar year

Niue:
  1 April - 31 March

Norfolk Island:
  1 July - 30 June

Northern Mariana Islands:
  1 October - 30 September

Norway:
  calendar year

Oman:
  calendar year

Pakistan:
  1 July - 30 June

Palau:
  1 October - 30 September

Panama:
  calendar year

Papua New Guinea:
  calendar year

Paraguay:
  calendar year

Peru:
  calendar year

Philippines:
  calendar year

Pitcairn Islands:
  1 April - 31 March

Poland:
  calendar year

Portugal:
  calendar year

Puerto Rico:
  1 July - 30 June

Qatar:
  1 April - 31 March

Reunion:
  calendar year

Romania:
  calendar year

Russia:
  calendar year

Rwanda:
  calendar year

Saint Helena:
  1 April - 31 March

Saint Kitts and Nevis:
  calendar year

Saint Lucia:
  1 April - 31 March

Saint Pierre and Miquelon:
  calendar year

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:
  calendar year

Samoa:
  calendar year

San Marino:
  calendar year

Sao Tome and Principe:
  calendar year

Saudi Arabia:
  calendar year

Senegal:
  calendar year

Seychelles:
  calendar year

Sierra Leone:
  calendar year

Singapore:
  1 April - 31 March

Slovakia:
  calendar year

Slovenia:
  calendar year

Solomon Islands:
  calendar year

Somalia:
  NA

South Africa:
  1 April - 31 March

Spain:
  calendar year

Sri Lanka:
  calendar year

Sudan:
  calendar year

Suriname:
  calendar year

Swaziland:
  1 April - 31 March

Sweden:
  calendar year

Switzerland:
  calendar year

Syria:
  calendar year

Tajikistan:
  calendar year

Tanzania:
  1 July - 30 June

Thailand:
  1 October - 30 September

Togo:
  calendar year

Tokelau:
  1 April - 31 March

Tonga:
  1 July - 30 June

Trinidad and Tobago:
  1 October - 30 September

Tunisia:
  calendar year

Turkey:
  calendar year

Turkmenistan:
  calendar year

Turks and Caicos Islands:
  calendar year

Tuvalu:
  calendar year

Uganda:
  1 July - 30 June

Ukraine:
  calendar year

United Arab Emirates:
  calendar year

United Kingdom:
  1 April - 31 March

United States:
  1 October - 30 September

Uruguay:
  calendar year

Uzbekistan:
  calendar year

Vanuatu:
  calendar year

Venezuela:
  calendar year

Vietnam:
  calendar year

Virgin Islands:
  1 October - 30 September

Wallis and Futuna:
  calendar year

West Bank:
  calendar year (since 1 January 1992)

Western Sahara:
  calendar year

Yemen:
  calendar year

Yugoslavia:
  calendar year

Zambia:
  calendar year

Zimbabwe:
  1 July - 30 June

Taiwan:
  1 July - 30 June (up to FY98/99); 1 July 1999 - 31 December
  2000 for FY00; calendar year (after FY00)

======================================================================

@Flag description



Afghanistan:
  three equal horizontal bands of green (top), white, and
  black with a gold emblem centered on the three bands; the emblem
  features a temple-like structure with Islamic inscriptions above and
  below, encircled by a wreath on the left and right and by a bolder
  Islamic inscription above, all of which are encircled by two crossed
  scimitars

  note:  the Taliban uses a plain white flag

Albania:
  red with a black two-headed eagle in the center

Algeria:
  two equal vertical bands of green (hoist side) and white; a
  red, five-pointed star within a red crescent centered over the
  two-color boundary; the crescent, star, and color green are
  traditional symbols of Islam (the state religion)

American Samoa:
  blue, with a white triangle edged in red that is
  based on the outer side and extends to the hoist side; a brown and
  white American bald eagle flying toward the hoist side is carrying
  two traditional Samoan symbols of authority, a staff and a war club

Andorra:
  three equal vertical bands of blue (hoist side), yellow,
  and red with the national coat of arms centered in the yellow band;
  the coat of arms features a quartered shield; similar to the flags
  of Chad and Romania, which do not have a national coat of arms in
  the center, and the flag of Moldova, which does bear a national
  emblem

Angola:
  two equal horizontal bands of red (top) and black with a
  centered yellow emblem consisting of a five-pointed star within half
  a cogwheel crossed by a machete (in the style of a hammer and sickle)

Anguilla:
  blue, with the flag of the UK in the upper hoist-side
  quadrant and the Anguillan coat of arms centered in the outer half
  of the flag; the coat of arms depicts three orange dolphins in an
  interlocking circular design on a white background with blue wavy
  water below

Antigua and Barbuda:
  red, with an inverted isosceles triangle based
  on the top edge of the flag; the triangle contains three horizontal
  bands of black (top), light blue, and white, with a yellow rising
  sun in the black band

Argentina:
  three equal horizontal bands of light blue (top), white,
  and light blue; centered in the white band is a radiant yellow sun
  with a human face known as the Sun of May

Armenia:
  three equal horizontal bands of red (top), blue, and orange

Aruba:
  blue, with two narrow, horizontal, yellow stripes across the
  lower portion and a red, four-pointed star outlined in white in the
  upper hoist-side corner

Ashmore and Cartier Islands:
  the flag of Australia is used

Australia:
  blue with the flag of the UK in the upper hoist-side
  quadrant and a large seven-pointed star in the lower hoist-side
  quadrant; the remaining half is a representation of the Southern
  Cross constellation in white with one small five-pointed star and
  four, larger, seven-pointed stars

Austria:
  three equal horizontal bands of red (top), white, and red

Azerbaijan:
  three equal horizontal bands of blue (top), red, and
  green; a crescent and eight-pointed star in white are centered in
  red band

Bahamas, The:
  three equal horizontal bands of aquamarine (top),
  gold, and aquamarine, with a black equilateral triangle based on the
  hoist side

Bahrain:
  red with a white serrated band (eight white points) on the
  hoist side

Baker Island:
  the flag of the US is used

Bangladesh:
  green with a large red disk slightly to the hoist side
  of center; the red sun of freedom represents the blood shed to
  achieve independence; the green field symbolizes the lush
  countryside, and secondarily, the traditional color of Islam

Barbados:
  three equal vertical bands of blue (hoist side), gold, and
  blue with the head of a black trident centered on the gold band; the
  trident head represents independence and a break with the past (the
  colonial coat of arms contained a complete trident)

Bassas da India:
  the flag of France is used

Belarus:
  red horizontal band (top) and green horizontal band
  one-half the width of the red band; a white vertical stripe on the
  hoist side bears the Belarusian national ornament in red

Belgium:
  three equal vertical bands of black (hoist side), yellow,
  and red; the design was based on the flag of France

Belize:
  blue with a narrow red stripe along the top and the bottom
  edges; centered is a large white disk bearing the coat of arms; the
  coat of arms features a shield flanked by two workers in front of a
  mahogany tree with the related motto SUB UMBRA FLOREO (I Flourish in
  the Shade) on a scroll at the bottom, all encircled by a green
  garland

Benin:
  two equal horizontal bands of yellow (top) and red with a
  vertical green band on the hoist side

Bermuda:
  red, with the flag of the UK in the upper hoist-side
  quadrant and the Bermudian coat of arms (white and green shield with
  a red lion holding a scrolled shield showing the sinking of the ship
  Sea Venture off Bermuda in 1609) centered on the outer half of the
  flag

Bhutan:
  divided diagonally from the lower hoist side corner; the
  upper triangle is yellow and the lower triangle is orange; centered
  along the dividing line is a large black and white dragon facing
  away from the hoist side

Bolivia:
  three equal horizontal bands of red (top), yellow, and
  green with the coat of arms centered on the yellow band; similar to
  the flag of Ghana, which has a large black five-pointed star
  centered in the yellow band

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  a wide medium blue vertical band on the fly
  side with a yellow isosceles triangle abutting the band and the top
  of the flag; the remainder of the flag is medium blue with seven
  full five-pointed white stars and two half stars top and bottom
  along the hypotenuse of the triangle

Botswana:
  light blue with a horizontal white-edged black stripe in
  the center

Bouvet Island:
  the flag of Norway is used

Brazil:
  green with a large yellow diamond in the center bearing a
  blue celestial globe with 27 white five-pointed stars (one for each
  state and the Federal District) arranged in the same pattern as the
  night sky over Brazil; the globe has a white equatorial band with
  the motto ORDEM E PROGRESSO (Order and Progress)

British Indian Ocean Territory:
  white with six blue wavy horizontal
  stripes; the flag of the UK is in the upper hoist-side quadrant; the
  striped section bears a palm tree and yellow crown centered on the
  outer half of the flag

British Virgin Islands:
  blue, with the flag of the UK in the upper
  hoist-side quadrant and the Virgin Islander coat of arms centered in
  the outer half of the flag; the coat of arms depicts a woman flanked
  on either side by a vertical column of six oil lamps above a scroll
  bearing the Latin word VIGILATE (Be Watchful)

Brunei:
  yellow with two diagonal bands of white (top, almost double
  width) and black starting from the upper hoist side; the national
  emblem in red is superimposed at the center; the emblem includes a
  swallow-tailed flag on top of a winged column within an upturned
  crescent above a scroll and flanked by two upraised hands

Bulgaria:
  three equal horizontal bands of white (top), green, and
  red; the national emblem formerly on the hoist side of the white
  stripe has been removed - it contained a rampant lion within a
  wreath of wheat ears below a red five-pointed star and above a
  ribbon bearing the dates 681 (first Bulgarian state established) and
  1944 (liberation from Nazi control)

Burkina Faso:
  two equal horizontal bands of red (top) and green with
  a yellow five-pointed star in the center; uses the popular
  pan-African colors of Ethiopia

Burma:
  red with a blue rectangle in the upper hoist-side corner
  bearing, all in white, 14 five-pointed stars encircling a cogwheel
  containing a stalk of rice; the 14 stars represent the 14
  administrative divisions

Burundi:
  divided by a white diagonal cross into red panels (top and
  bottom) and green panels (hoist side and outer side) with a white
  disk superimposed at the center bearing three red six-pointed stars
  outlined in green arranged in a triangular design (one star above,
  two stars below)

Cambodia:
  three horizontal bands of blue (top), red (double width),
  and blue with a white three-towered temple representing Angkor Wat
  outlined in black in the center of the red band

Cameroon:
  three equal vertical bands of green (hoist side), red, and
  yellow with a yellow five-pointed star centered in the red band;
  uses the popular pan-African colors of Ethiopia

Canada:
  three vertical bands of red (hoist side), white (double
  width, square), and red with a red maple leaf centered in the white
  band

Cape Verde:
  three horizontal bands of light blue (top, double
  width), white (with a horizontal red stripe in the middle third),
  and light blue; a circle of 10 yellow five-pointed stars is centered
  on the hoist end of the red stripe and extends into the upper and
  lower blue bands

Cayman Islands:
  blue, with the flag of the UK in the upper
  hoist-side quadrant and the Caymanian coat of arms on a white disk
  centered on the outer half of the flag; the coat of arms includes a
  pineapple and turtle above a shield with three stars (representing
  the three islands) and a scroll at the bottom bearing the motto HE
  HATH FOUNDED IT UPON THE SEAS

Central African Republic:
  four equal horizontal bands of blue (top),
  white, green, and yellow with a vertical red band in center; there
  is a yellow five-pointed star on the hoist side of the blue band

Chad:
  three equal vertical bands of blue (hoist side), yellow, and
  red; similar to the flag of Romania; also similar to the flags of
  Andorra and Moldova, both of which have a national coat of arms
  centered in the yellow band; design was based on the flag of France

Chile:
  two equal horizontal bands of white (top) and red; there is a
  blue square the same height as the white band at the hoist-side end
  of the white band; the square bears a white five-pointed star in the
  center; design was based on the US flag

China:
  red with a large yellow five-pointed star and four smaller
  yellow five-pointed stars (arranged in a vertical arc toward the
  middle of the flag) in the upper hoist-side corner

Christmas Island:
  the flag of Australia is used

Clipperton Island:
  the flag of France is used

Cocos (Keeling) Islands:
  the flag of Australia is used

Colombia:
  three horizontal bands of yellow (top, double-width),
  blue, and red; similar to the flag of Ecuador, which is longer and
  bears the Ecuadorian coat of arms superimposed in the center

Comoros:
  green with a white crescent in the center of the field, its
  points facing downward; there are four white five-pointed stars
  placed in a line between the points of the crescent; the crescent,
  stars, and color green are traditional symbols of Islam; the four
  stars represent the four main islands of the archipelago - Mwali,
  Njazidja, Nzwani, and Mayotte (a territorial collectivity of France,
  but claimed by Comoros); the design, the most recent of several, is
  described in the constitution approved by referendum on 7 June 1992

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  light blue with a large yellow
  five-pointed star in the center and a columnar arrangement of six
  small yellow five-pointed stars along the hoist side

Congo, Republic of the:
  divided diagonally from the lower hoist side
  by a yellow band; the upper triangle (hoist side) is green and the
  lower triangle is red; uses the popular pan-African colors of
  Ethiopia

Cook Islands:
  blue, with the flag of the UK in the upper hoist-side
  quadrant and a large circle of 15 white five-pointed stars (one for
  every island) centered in the outer half of the flag

Coral Sea Islands:
  the flag of Australia is used

Costa Rica:
  five horizontal bands of blue (top), white, red (double
  width), white, and blue, with the coat of arms in a white disk on
  the hoist side of the red band

Cote d'Ivoire:
  three equal vertical bands of orange (hoist side),
  white, and green; similar to the flag of Ireland, which is longer
  and has the colors reversed - green (hoist side), white, and orange;
  also similar to the flag of Italy, which is green (hoist side),
  white, and red; design was based on the flag of France

Croatia:
  red, white, and blue horizontal bands with Croatian coat of
  arms (red and white checkered)

Cuba:
  five equal horizontal bands of blue (top and bottom)
  alternating with white; a red equilateral triangle based on the
  hoist side bears a white, five-pointed star in the center; design
  influenced by the US flag

Cyprus:
  white with a copper-colored silhouette of the island (the
  name Cyprus is derived from the Greek word for copper) above two
  green crossed olive branches in the center of the flag; the branches
  symbolize the hope for peace and reconciliation between the Greek
  and Turkish communities

  note:  the Turkish Cypriot flag has a horizontal red stripe at the
  top and bottom between which is a red crescent and red star on a
  white field

Czech Republic:
  two equal horizontal bands of white (top) and red
  with a blue isosceles triangle based on the hoist side (identical to
  the flag of the former Czechoslovakia)

Denmark:
  red with a white cross that extends to the edges of the
  flag; the vertical part of the cross is shifted to the hoist side,
  and that design element of the Dannebrog (Danish flag) was
  subsequently adopted by the other Nordic countries of Finland,
  Iceland, Norway, and Sweden

Djibouti:
  two equal horizontal bands of light blue (top) and light
  green with a white isosceles triangle based on the hoist side
  bearing a red five-pointed star in the center

Dominica:
  green, with a centered cross of three equal bands - the
  vertical part is yellow (hoist side), black, and white and the
  horizontal part is yellow (top), black, and white; superimposed in
  the center of the cross is a red disk bearing a sisserou parrot
  encircled by 10 green, five-pointed stars edged in yellow; the 10
  stars represent the 10 administrative divisions (parishes)

Dominican Republic:
  a centered white cross that extends to the edges
  divides the flag into four rectangles - the top ones are blue (hoist
  side) and red, and the bottom ones are red (hoist side) and blue; a
  small coat of arms is at the center of the cross

Ecuador:
  three horizontal bands of yellow (top, double width), blue,
  and red with the coat of arms superimposed at the center of the
  flag; similar to the flag of Colombia which is shorter and does not
  bear a coat of arms

Egypt:
  three equal horizontal bands of red (top), white, and black
  with the national emblem (a shield superimposed on a golden eagle
  facing the hoist side above a scroll bearing the name of the country
  in Arabic) centered in the white band; similar to the flag of Yemen,
  which has a plain white band; also similar to the flag of Syria,
  which has two green stars, and to the flag of Iraq, which has three
  green stars (plus an Arabic inscription) in a horizontal line
  centered in the white band

El Salvador:
  three equal horizontal bands of blue (top), white, and
  blue with the national coat of arms centered in the white band; the
  coat of arms features a round emblem encircled by the words
  REPUBLICA DE EL SALVADOR EN LA AMERICA CENTRAL; similar to the flag
  of Nicaragua, which has a different coat of arms centered in the
  white band - it features a triangle encircled by the words REPUBLICA
  DE NICARAGUA on top and AMERICA CENTRAL on the bottom; also similar
  to the flag of Honduras, which has five blue stars arranged in an X
  pattern centered in the white band

Equatorial Guinea:
  three equal horizontal bands of green (top),
  white, and red with a blue isosceles triangle based on the hoist
  side and the coat of arms centered in the white band; the coat of
  arms has six yellow six-pointed stars (representing the mainland and
  five offshore islands) above a gray shield bearing a silk-cotton
  tree and below which is a scroll with the motto UNIDAD, PAZ,
  JUSTICIA (Unity, Peace, Justice)

Eritrea:
  red isosceles triangle (based on the hoist side) dividing
  the flag into two right triangles; the upper triangle is green, the
  lower one is blue; a gold wreath encircling a gold olive branch is
  centered on the hoist side of the red triangle

Estonia:
  pre-1940 flag restored by Supreme Soviet in May 1990 -
  three equal horizontal bands of blue (top), black, and white

Ethiopia:
  three equal horizontal bands of green (top), yellow, and
  red with a yellow pentagram and single yellow rays emanating from
  the angles between the points on a light blue disk centered on the
  three bands; Ethiopia is the oldest independent country in Africa,
  and the colors of her flag were so often adopted by other African
  countries upon independence that they became known as the
  pan-African colors

Europa Island:
  the flag of France is used

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas):
  blue with the flag of the UK in
  the upper hoist-side quadrant and the Falkland Island coat of arms
  in a white disk centered on the outer half of the flag; the coat of
  arms contains a white ram (sheep raising is the major economic
  activity) above the sailing ship Desire (whose crew discovered the
  islands) with a scroll at the bottom bearing the motto DESIRE THE
  RIGHT

Faroe Islands:
  white with a red cross outlined in blue that extends
  to the edges of the flag; the vertical part of the cross is shifted
  to the hoist side in the style of the Dannebrog (Danish flag)

Fiji:
  light blue with the flag of the UK in the upper hoist-side
  quadrant and the Fijian shield centered on the outer half of the
  flag; the shield depicts a yellow lion above a white field quartered
  by the cross of Saint George featuring stalks of sugarcane, a palm
  tree, bananas, and a white dove

Finland:
  white with a blue cross that extends to the edges of the
  flag; the vertical part of the cross is shifted to the hoist side in
  the style of the Dannebrog (Danish flag)

France:
  three equal vertical bands of blue (hoist side), white, and
  red; known as the French Tricouleur (Tricolor); the design and/or
  colors are similar to a number of other flags, including those of
  Belgium, Chad, Ireland, Cote d'Ivoire, Luxembourg, and Netherlands;
  the official flag for all French dependent areas

French Guiana:
  the flag of France is used

French Polynesia:
  two narrow red horizontal bands encase a wide
  white band; centered on the white band is a disk with blue and white
  wave pattern on the lower half and gold and white ray pattern on the
  upper half; a stylized red, blue and white ship rides on the wave
  pattern; the French flag is used for official occasions

French Southern and Antarctic Lands:
  the flag of France is used

Gabon:
  three equal horizontal bands of green (top), yellow, and blue

Gambia, The:
  three equal horizontal bands of red (top), blue with
  white edges, and green

Georgia:
  maroon field with small rectangle in upper hoist side
  corner; rectangle divided horizontally with black on top, white below

Germany:
  three equal horizontal bands of black (top), red, and gold

Ghana:
  three equal horizontal bands of red (top), yellow, and green
  with a large black five-pointed star centered in the yellow band;
  uses the popular pan-African colors of Ethiopia; similar to the flag
  of Bolivia, which has a coat of arms centered in the yellow band

Gibraltar:
  two horizontal bands of white (top, double width) and red
  with a three-towered red castle in the center of the white band;
  hanging from the castle gate is a gold key centered in the red band

Glorioso Islands:
  the flag of France is used

Greece:
  nine equal horizontal stripes of blue alternating with
  white; there is a blue square in the upper hoist-side corner bearing
  a white cross; the cross symbolizes Greek Orthodoxy, the established
  religion of the country

Greenland:
  two equal horizontal bands of white (top) and red with a
  large disk slightly to the hoist side of center - the top half of
  the disk is red, the bottom half is white

Grenada:
  a rectangle divided diagonally into yellow triangles (top
  and bottom) and green triangles (hoist side and outer side), with a
  red border around the flag; there are seven yellow, five-pointed
  stars with three centered in the top red border, three centered in
  the bottom red border, and one on a red disk superimposed at the
  center of the flag; there is also a symbolic nutmeg pod on the
  hoist-side triangle (Grenada is the world's second-largest producer
  of nutmeg, after Indonesia); the seven stars represent the seven
  administrative divisions

Guadeloupe:
  three horizontal bands, a narrow green band (top), a
  wide red band, and a narrow green band; the green bands are
  separated from the red band by two narrow white stripes; a gold
  five-pointed star is centered in the red band toward the hoist side;
  the flag of France is used for official occasions

Guam:
  territorial flag is dark blue with a narrow red border on all
  four sides; centered is a red-bordered, pointed, vertical ellipse
  containing a beach scene, outrigger canoe with sail, and a palm tree
  with the word GUAM superimposed in bold red letters; US flag is the
  national flag

Guatemala:
  three equal vertical bands of light blue (hoist side),
  white, and light blue with the coat of arms centered in the white
  band; the coat of arms includes a green and red quetzal (the
  national bird) and a scroll bearing the inscription LIBERTAD 15 DE
  SEPTIEMBRE DE 1821 (the original date of independence from Spain)
  all superimposed on a pair of crossed rifles and a pair of crossed
  swords and framed by a wreath

Guernsey:
  white with the red cross of Saint George (patron saint of
  England) extending to the edges of the flag and a yellow equal-armed
  cross of William the Conqueror superimposed on the Saint George cross

Guinea:
  three equal vertical bands of red (hoist side), yellow, and
  green; uses the popular pan-African colors of Ethiopia; similar to
  the flag of Rwanda, which has a large black letter R centered in the
  yellow band

Guinea-Bissau:
  two equal horizontal bands of yellow (top) and green
  with a vertical red band on the hoist side; there is a black
  five-pointed star centered in the red band; uses the popular
  pan-African colors of Ethiopia

Guyana:
  green, with a red isosceles triangle (based on the hoist
  side) superimposed on a long, yellow arrowhead; there is a narrow,
  black border between the red and yellow, and a narrow, white border
  between the yellow and the green

Haiti:
  two equal horizontal bands of blue (top) and red with a
  centered white rectangle bearing the coat of arms, which contains a
  palm tree flanked by flags and two cannons above a scroll bearing
  the motto L'UNION FAIT LA FORCE (Union Makes Strength)

Heard Island and McDonald Islands:
  the flag of Australia is used

Holy See (Vatican City):
  two vertical bands of yellow (hoist side)
  and white with the crossed keys of Saint Peter and the papal miter
  centered in the white band

Honduras:
  three equal horizontal bands of blue (top), white, and
  blue with five blue five-pointed stars arranged in an X pattern
  centered in the white band; the stars represent the members of the
  former Federal Republic of Central America - Costa Rica, El
  Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, and Nicaragua; similar to the flag of
  El Salvador, which features a round emblem encircled by the words
  REPUBLICA DE EL SALVADOR EN LA AMERICA CENTRAL centered in the white
  band; also similar to the flag of Nicaragua, which features a
  triangle encircled by the word REPUBLICA DE NICARAGUA on top and
  AMERICA CENTRAL on the bottom, centered in the white band

Hong Kong:
  red with a stylized, white, five-petal bauhinia flower in
  the center

Howland Island:
  the flag of the US is used

Hungary:
  three equal horizontal bands of red (top), white, and green

Iceland:
  blue with a red cross outlined in white that extends to the
  edges of the flag; the vertical part of the cross is shifted to the
  hoist side in the style of the Dannebrog (Danish flag)

India:
  three equal horizontal bands of orange (top), white, and
  green with a blue chakra (24-spoked wheel) centered in the white
  band; similar to the flag of Niger, which has a small orange disk
  centered in the white band

Indonesia:
  two equal horizontal bands of red (top) and white;
  similar to the flag of Monaco, which is shorter; also similar to the
  flag of Poland, which is white (top) and red

Iran:
  three equal horizontal bands of green (top), white, and red;
  the national emblem (a stylized representation of the word Allah) in
  red is centered in the white band; ALLAH AKBAR (God is Great) in
  white Arabic script is repeated 11 times along the bottom edge of
  the green band and 11 times along the top edge of the red band

Iraq:
  three equal horizontal bands of red (top), white, and black
  with three green five-pointed stars in a horizontal line centered in
  the white band; the phrase ALLAHU AKBAR (God is Great) in green
  Arabic script - Allahu to the right of the middle star and Akbar to
  the left of the middle star - was added in January 1991 during the
  Persian Gulf crisis; similar to the flag of Syria which has two
  stars but no script and the flag of Yemen which has a plain white
  band; also similar to the flag of Egypt which has a symbolic eagle
  centered in the white band

Ireland:
  three equal vertical bands of green (hoist side), white,
  and orange; similar to the flag of Cote d'Ivoire, which is shorter
  and has the colors reversed - orange (hoist side), white, and green;
  also similar to the flag of Italy, which is shorter and has colors
  of green (hoist side), white, and red

Israel:
  white with a blue hexagram (six-pointed linear star) known
  as the Magen David (Shield of David) centered between two equal
  horizontal blue bands near the top and bottom edges of the flag

Italy:
  three equal vertical bands of green (hoist side), white, and
  red; similar to the flag of Ireland, which is longer and is green
  (hoist side), white, and orange; also similar to the flag of the
  Cote d'Ivoire, which has the colors reversed - orange (hoist side),
  white, and green

  note:  inspired by the French flag brought to Italy by Napoleon in
  1797

Jamaica:
  diagonal yellow cross divides the flag into four triangles
  - green (top and bottom) and black (hoist side and outer side)

Jan Mayen:
  the flag of Norway is used

Japan:
  white with a large red disk (representing the sun without
  rays) in the center

Jarvis Island:
  the flag of the US is used

Jersey:
  white with a diagonal red cross extending to the corners of
  the flag and in the upper quadrant, surmounted by a yellow crown, a
  red shield holding the three lions of England in yellow

Johnston Atoll:
  the flag of the US is used

Jordan:
  three equal horizontal bands of black (top, the Abbassid
  Caliphate of Islam), white (the Ummayyad Caliphate of Islam), and
  green (the Fatimid Caliphate of Islam) with a red isosceles triangle
  (representing the Great Arab Revolt of 1916) based on the hoist side
  bearing a small white seven-pointed star symbolizing the seven
  verses of the opening Sura (Al-Fatiha) of the Holy Koran; the seven
  points on the star represent faith in One God, humanity, national
  spirit, humility, social justice, virtue, and aspirations

Juan de Nova Island:
  the flag of France is used

Kazakhstan:
  sky blue background representing the endless sky and a
  gold sun with 32 rays soaring above a golden steppe eagle in the
  center; on the hoist side is a "national ornamentation" in gold

Kenya:
  three equal horizontal bands of black (top), red, and green;
  the red band is edged in white; a large warrior's shield covering
  crossed spears is superimposed at the center

Kingman Reef:
  the flag of the US is used

Kiribati:
  the upper half is red with a yellow frigate bird flying
  over a yellow rising sun, and the lower half is blue with three
  horizontal wavy white stripes to represent the ocean

Korea, North:
  three horizontal bands of blue (top), red (triple
  width), and blue; the red band is edged in white; on the hoist side
  of the red band is a white disk with a red five-pointed star

Korea, South:
  white with a red (top) and blue yin-yang symbol in the
  center; there is a different black trigram from the ancient I Ching
  (Book of Changes) in each corner of the white field

Kuwait:
  three equal horizontal bands of green (top), white, and red
  with a black trapezoid based on the hoist side

Kyrgyzstan:
  red field with a yellow sun in the center having 40 rays
  representing the 40 Kirghiz tribes; on the obverse side the rays run
  counterclockwise, on the reverse, clockwise; in the center of the
  sun is a red ring crossed by two sets of three lines, a stylized
  representation of the roof of the traditional Kirghiz yurt

Laos:
  three horizontal bands of red (top), blue (double width), and
  red with a large white disk centered in the blue band

Latvia:
  three horizontal bands of maroon (top), white (half-width),
  and maroon

Lebanon:
  three horizontal bands of red (top), white (double width),
  and red with a green and brown cedar tree centered in the white band

Lesotho:
  divided diagonally from the lower hoist side corner; the
  upper half is white, bearing the brown silhouette of a large shield
  with crossed spear and club; the lower half is a diagonal blue band
  with a green triangle in the corner

Liberia:
  11 equal horizontal stripes of red (top and bottom)
  alternating with white; there is a white five-pointed star on a blue
  square in the upper hoist-side corner; the design was based on the
  US flag

Libya:
  plain green; green is the traditional color of Islam (the
  state religion)

Liechtenstein:
  two equal horizontal bands of blue (top) and red with
  a gold crown on the hoist side of the blue band

Lithuania:
  three equal horizontal bands of yellow (top), green, and
  red

Luxembourg:
  three equal horizontal bands of red (top), white, and
  light blue; similar to the flag of the Netherlands, which uses a
  darker blue and is shorter; design was based on the flag of France

Macau:
  light green with a lotus flower above a stylized bridge and
  water in white, beneath an arc of five gold, five-pointed stars: one
  large in center of arc and four smaller

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  a rising yellow sun with
  eight rays extending to the edges of the red field

Madagascar:
  two equal horizontal bands of red (top) and green with a
  vertical white band of the same width on hoist side

Malawi:
  three equal horizontal bands of black (top), red, and green
  with a radiant, rising, red sun centered in the black band

Malaysia:
  14 equal horizontal stripes of red (top) alternating with
  white (bottom); there is a blue rectangle in the upper hoist-side
  corner bearing a yellow crescent and a yellow fourteen-pointed star;
  the crescent and the star are traditional symbols of Islam; the
  design was based on the flag of the US

Maldives:
  red with a large green rectangle in the center bearing a
  vertical white crescent; the closed side of the crescent is on the
  hoist side of the flag

Mali:
  three equal vertical bands of green (hoist side), yellow, and
  red; uses the popular pan-African colors of Ethiopia

Malta:
  two equal vertical bands of white (hoist side) and red; in
  the upper hoist-side corner is a representation of the Saint George
  Cross, edged in red

Man, Isle of:
  red with the Three Legs of Man emblem (Trinacria), in
  the center; the three legs are joined at the thigh and bent at the
  knee; in order to have the toes pointing clockwise on both sides of
  the flag, a two-sided emblem is used

Marshall Islands:
  blue with two stripes radiating from the lower
  hoist-side corner - orange (top) and white; there is a white star
  with four large rays and 20 small rays on the hoist side above the
  two stripes

Martinique:
  a light blue background is divided into four quadrants
  by a white cross; in the center of each rectangle is a white snake;
  the flag of France is used for official occasions

Mauritania:
  green with a yellow five-pointed star above a yellow,
  horizontal crescent; the closed side of the crescent is down; the
  crescent, star, and color green are traditional symbols of Islam

Mauritius:
  four equal horizontal bands of red (top), blue, yellow,
  and green

Mayotte:
  the flag of France is used

Mexico:
  three equal vertical bands of green (hoist side), white, and
  red; the coat of arms (an eagle perched on a cactus with a snake in
  its beak) is centered in the white band

Micronesia, Federated States of:
  light blue with four white
  five-pointed stars centered; the stars are arranged in a diamond
  pattern

Midway Islands:
  the flag of the US is used

Moldova:
  same color scheme as Romania - three equal vertical bands
  of blue (hoist side), yellow, and red; emblem in center of flag is
  of a Roman eagle of gold outlined in black with a red beak and
  talons carrying a yellow cross in its beak and a green olive branch
  in its right talons and a yellow scepter in its left talons; on its
  breast is a shield divided horizontally red over blue with a
  stylized ox head, star, rose, and crescent all in black-outlined
  yellow

Monaco:
  two equal horizontal bands of red (top) and white; similar
  to the flag of Indonesia which is longer and the flag of Poland
  which is white (top) and red

Mongolia:
  three equal, vertical bands of red (hoist side), blue, and
  red; centered on the hoist-side red band in yellow is the national
  emblem ("soyombo" - a columnar arrangement of abstract and geometric
  representation for fire, sun, moon, earth, water, and the yin-yang
  symbol)

Montserrat:
  blue, with the flag of the UK in the upper hoist-side
  quadrant and the Montserratian coat of arms centered in the outer
  half of the flag; the coat of arms features a woman standing beside
  a yellow harp with her arm around a black cross

Morocco:
  red with a green pentacle (five-pointed, linear star) known
  as Solomon's seal in the center of the flag; green is the
  traditional color of Islam

Mozambique:
  three equal horizontal bands of green (top), black, and
  yellow with a red isosceles triangle based on the hoist side; the
  black band is edged in white; centered in the triangle is a yellow
  five-pointed star bearing a crossed rifle and hoe in black
  superimposed on an open white book

Namibia:
  a large blue triangle with a yellow sunburst fills the
  upper left section and an equal green triangle (solid) fills the
  lower right section; the triangles are separated by a red stripe
  that is contrasted by two narrow white-edge borders

Nauru:
  blue with a narrow, horizontal, yellow stripe across the
  center and a large white 12-pointed star below the stripe on the
  hoist side; the star indicates the country's location in relation to
  the Equator (the yellow stripe) and the 12 points symbolize the 12
  original tribes of Nauru

Navassa Island:
  the flag of the US is used

Nepal:
  red with a blue border around the unique shape of two
  overlapping right triangles; the smaller, upper triangle bears a
  white stylized moon and the larger, lower triangle bears a white
  12-pointed sun

Netherlands:
  three equal horizontal bands of red (top), white, and
  blue; similar to the flag of Luxembourg, which uses a lighter blue
  and is longer

Netherlands Antilles:
  white, with a horizontal blue stripe in the
  center superimposed on a vertical red band, also centered; five
  white, five-pointed stars are arranged in an oval pattern in the
  center of the blue band; the five stars represent the five main
  islands of Bonaire, Curacao, Saba, Sint Eustatius, and Sint Maarten

New Caledonia:
  the flag of France is used

New Zealand:
  blue with the flag of the UK in the upper hoist-side
  quadrant with four red five-pointed stars edged in white centered in
  the outer half of the flag; the stars represent the Southern Cross
  constellation

Nicaragua:
  three equal horizontal bands of blue (top), white, and
  blue with the national coat of arms centered in the white band; the
  coat of arms features a triangle encircled by the words REPUBLICA DE
  NICARAGUA on the top and AMERICA CENTRAL on the bottom; similar to
  the flag of El Salvador, which features a round emblem encircled by
  the words REPUBLICA DE EL SALVADOR EN LA AMERICA CENTRAL centered in
  the white band; also similar to the flag of Honduras, which has five
  blue stars arranged in an X pattern centered in the white band

Niger:
  three equal horizontal bands of orange (top), white, and
  green with a small orange disk (representing the sun) centered in
  the white band; similar to the flag of India, which has a blue
  spoked wheel centered in the white band

Nigeria:
  three equal vertical bands of green (hoist side), white,
  and green

Niue:
  yellow with the flag of the UK in the upper hoist-side
  quadrant; the flag of the UK bears five yellow five-pointed stars -
  a large one on a blue disk in the center and a smaller one on each
  arm of the bold red cross

Norfolk Island:
  three vertical bands of green (hoist side), white,
  and green with a large green Norfolk Island pine tree centered in
  the slightly wider white band

Northern Mariana Islands:
  blue, with a white, five-pointed star
  superimposed on the gray silhouette of a latte stone (a traditional
  foundation stone used in building) in the center, surrounded by a
  wreath

Norway:
  red with a blue cross outlined in white that extends to the
  edges of the flag; the vertical part of the cross is shifted to the
  hoist side in the style of the Dannebrog (Danish flag)

Oman:
  three horizontal bands of white, red, and green of equal width
  with a broad, vertical, red band on the hoist side; the national
  emblem (a khanjar dagger in its sheath superimposed on two crossed
  swords in scabbards) in white is centered at the top of the vertical
  band

Pakistan:
  green with a vertical white band (symbolizing the role of
  religious minorities) on the hoist side; a large white crescent and
  star are centered in the green field; the crescent, star, and color
  green are traditional symbols of Islam

Palau:
  light blue with a large yellow disk (representing the moon)
  shifted slightly to the hoist side

Palmyra Atoll:
  the flag of the US is used

Panama:
  divided into four, equal rectangles; the top quadrants are
  white (hoist side) with a blue five-pointed star in the center and
  plain red; the bottom quadrants are plain blue (hoist side) and
  white with a red five-pointed star in the center

Papua New Guinea:
  divided diagonally from upper hoist-side corner;
  the upper triangle is red with a soaring yellow bird of paradise
  centered; the lower triangle is black with five, white, five-pointed
  stars of the Southern Cross constellation centered

Paraguay:
  three equal, horizontal bands of red (top), white, and
  blue with an emblem centered in the white band; unusual flag in that
  the emblem is different on each side; the obverse (hoist side at the
  left) bears the national coat of arms (a yellow five-pointed star
  within a green wreath capped by the words REPUBLICA DEL PARAGUAY,
  all within two circles); the reverse (hoist side at the right) bears
  the seal of the treasury (a yellow lion below a red Cap of Liberty
  and the words Paz y Justicia (Peace and Justice) capped by the words
  REPUBLICA DEL PARAGUAY, all within two circles)

Peru:
  three equal, vertical bands of red (hoist side), white, and
  red with the coat of arms centered in the white band; the coat of
  arms features a shield bearing a llama, cinchona tree (the source of
  quinine), and a yellow cornucopia spilling out gold coins, all
  framed by a green wreath

Philippines:
  two equal horizontal bands of blue (top) and red with a
  white equilateral triangle based on the hoist side; in the center of
  the triangle is a yellow sun with eight primary rays (each
  containing three individual rays) and in each corner of the triangle
  is a small yellow five-pointed star

Pitcairn Islands:
  blue with the flag of the UK in the upper
  hoist-side quadrant and the Pitcairn Islander coat of arms centered
  on the outer half of the flag; the coat of arms is yellow, green,
  and light blue with a shield featuring a yellow anchor

Poland:
  two equal horizontal bands of white (top) and red; similar
  to the flags of Indonesia and Monaco which are red (top) and white

Portugal:
  two vertical bands of green (hoist side, two-fifths) and
  red (three-fifths) with the Portuguese coat of arms centered on the
  dividing line

Puerto Rico:
  five equal horizontal bands of red (top and bottom)
  alternating with white; a blue isosceles triangle based on the hoist
  side bears a large, white, five-pointed star in the center; design
  influenced by the US flag, but based on the Cuban flag

Qatar:
  maroon with a broad white serrated band (nine white points)
  on the hoist side

Reunion:
  the flag of France is used

Romania:
  three equal vertical bands of blue (hoist side), yellow,
  and red; the national coat of arms that used to be centered in the
  yellow band has been removed; now similar to the flag of Chad, also
  resembles the flags of Andorra and Moldova

Russia:
  three equal horizontal bands of white (top), blue, and red

Rwanda:
  three equal vertical bands of red (hoist side), yellow, and
  green with a large black letter R centered in the yellow band; uses
  the popular pan-African colors of Ethiopia; similar to the flag of
  Guinea, which has a plain yellow band

Saint Helena:
  blue with the flag of the UK in the upper hoist-side
  quadrant and the Saint Helenian shield centered on the outer half of
  the flag; the shield features a rocky coastline and three-masted
  sailing ship

Saint Kitts and Nevis:
  divided diagonally from the lower hoist side
  by a broad black band bearing two white, five-pointed stars; the
  black band is edged in yellow; the upper triangle is green, the
  lower triangle is red

Saint Lucia:
  blue, with a gold isosceles triangle below a black
  arrowhead; the upper edges of the arrowhead have a white border

Saint Pierre and Miquelon:
  a yellow sailing ship facing the hoist
  side rides on a dark blue background with a black wave line under
  the ship; on the hoist side, a vertical band is divided into three
  parts: the top part is red with a green diagonal cross extending to
  the corners overlaid by a white cross dividing the square into four
  sections; the middle part has a white background with an ermine
  pattern; the third part has a red background with two stylized
  yellow lions outlined in black, one on top of the other; the flag of
  France is used for official occasions

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:
  three vertical bands of blue
  (hoist side), gold (double width), and green; the gold band bears
  three green diamonds arranged in a V pattern

Samoa:
  red with a blue rectangle in the upper hoist-side quadrant
  bearing five white five-pointed stars representing the Southern
  Cross constellation

San Marino:
  two equal horizontal bands of white (top) and light blue
  with the national coat of arms superimposed in the center; the coat
  of arms has a shield (featuring three towers on three peaks) flanked
  by a wreath, below a crown and above a scroll bearing the word
  LIBERTAS (Liberty)

Sao Tome and Principe:
  three horizontal bands of green (top), yellow
  (double width), and green with two black five-pointed stars placed
  side by side in the center of the yellow band and a red isosceles
  triangle based on the hoist side; uses the popular pan-African
  colors of Ethiopia

Saudi Arabia:
  green with large white Arabic script (that may be
  translated as There is no God but God; Muhammad is the Messenger of
  God) above a white horizontal saber (the tip points to the hoist
  side); green is the traditional color of Islam

Senegal:
  three equal vertical bands of green (hoist side), yellow,
  and red with a small green five-pointed star centered in the yellow
  band; uses the popular pan-African colors of Ethiopia

Seychelles:
  five oblique bands of blue (hoist side), yellow, red,
  white, and green (bottom) radiating from the bottom of the hoist side

Sierra Leone:
  three equal horizontal bands of light green (top),
  white, and light blue

Singapore:
  two equal horizontal bands of red (top) and white; near
  the hoist side of the red band, there is a vertical, white crescent
  (closed portion is toward the hoist side) partially enclosing five
  white five-pointed stars arranged in a circle

Slovakia:
  three equal horizontal bands of white (top), blue, and red
  superimposed with the Slovak cross in a shield centered on the hoist
  side; the cross is white centered on a background of red and blue

Slovenia:
  three equal horizontal bands of white (top), blue, and
  red, with the Slovenian seal (a shield with the image of Triglav,
  Slovenia's highest peak, in white against a blue background at the
  center; beneath it are two wavy blue lines depicting seas and
  rivers, and above it are three six-pointed stars arranged in an
  inverted triangle which are taken from the coat of arms of the
  Counts of Celje, the great Slovene dynastic house of the late 14th
  and early 15th centuries); the seal is located in the upper hoist
  side of the flag centered in the white and blue bands

Solomon Islands:
  divided diagonally by a thin yellow stripe from the
  lower hoist-side corner; the upper triangle (hoist side) is blue
  with five white five-pointed stars arranged in an X pattern; the
  lower triangle is green

Somalia:
  light blue with a large white five-pointed star in the
  center; design based on the flag of the UN (Italian Somaliland was a
  UN trust territory)

South Africa:
  two equal width horizontal bands of red (top) and blue
  separated by a central green band which splits into a horizontal Y,
  the arms of which end at the corners of the hoist side; the Y
  embraces a black isosceles triangle from which the arms are
  separated by narrow yellow bands; the red and blue bands are
  separated from the green band and its arms by narrow white stripes

  note:  prior to 26 April 1994, the flag was actually four flags in
  one - three miniature flags reproduced in the center of the white
  band of the former flag of the Netherlands, which had three equal
  horizontal bands of orange (top), white, and blue; the miniature
  flags were a vertically hanging flag of the old Orange Free State
  with a horizontal flag of the UK adjoining on the hoist side and a
  horizontal flag of the old Transvaal Republic adjoining on the other
  side

South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands:
  the flag of the UK is
  used

Spain:
  three horizontal bands of red (top), yellow (double width),
  and red with the national coat of arms on the hoist side of the
  yellow band; the coat of arms includes the royal seal framed by the
  Pillars of Hercules, which are the two promontories (Gibraltar and
  Ceuta) on either side of the eastern end of the Strait of Gibraltar

Sri Lanka:
  yellow with two panels; the smaller hoist-side panel has
  two equal vertical bands of green (hoist side) and orange; the other
  panel is a large dark red rectangle with a yellow lion holding a
  sword, and there is a yellow bo leaf in each corner; the yellow
  field appears as a border that goes around the entire flag and
  extends between the two panels

Sudan:
  three equal horizontal bands of red (top), white, and black
  with a green isosceles triangle based on the hoist side

Suriname:
  five horizontal bands of green (top, double width), white,
  red (quadruple width), white, and green (double width); there is a
  large, yellow, five-pointed star centered in the red band

Svalbard:
  the flag of Norway is used

Swaziland:
  three horizontal bands of blue (top), red (triple width),
  and blue; the red band is edged in yellow; centered in the red band
  is a large black and white shield covering two spears and a staff
  decorated with feather tassels, all placed horizontally

Sweden:
  blue with a yellow cross that extends to the edges of the
  flag; the vertical part of the cross is shifted to the hoist side in
  the style of the Dannebrog (Danish flag)

Switzerland:
  red square with a bold, equilateral white cross in the
  center that does not extend to the edges of the flag

Syria:
  three equal horizontal bands of red (top), white, and black,
  with two small green five-pointed stars in a horizontal line
  centered in the white band; similar to the flag of Yemen, which has
  a plain white band, and of Iraq, which has three green stars (plus
  an Arabic inscription) in a horizontal line centered in the white
  band; also similar to the flag of Egypt, which has a heraldic eagle
  centered in the white band

Tajikistan:
  three horizontal stripes of red (top), a wider stripe of
  white, and green; a gold crown surmounted by seven gold,
  five-pointed stars is located in the center of the white stripe

Tanzania:
  divided diagonally by a yellow-edged black band from the
  lower hoist-side corner; the upper triangle (hoist side) is green
  and the lower triangle is blue

Thailand:
  five horizontal bands of red (top), white, blue (double
  width), white, and red

Togo:
  five equal horizontal bands of green (top and bottom)
  alternating with yellow; there is a white five-pointed star on a red
  square in the upper hoist-side corner; uses the popular pan-African
  colors of Ethiopia

Tokelau:
  the flag of New Zealand is used

Tonga:
  red with a bold red cross on a white rectangle in the upper
  hoist-side corner

Trinidad and Tobago:
  red with a white-edged black diagonal band from
  the upper hoist side

Tromelin Island:
  the flag of France is used

Tunisia:
  red with a white disk in the center bearing a red crescent
  nearly encircling a red five-pointed star; the crescent and star are
  traditional symbols of Islam

Turkey:
  red with a vertical white crescent (the closed portion is
  toward the hoist side) and white five-pointed star centered just
  outside the crescent opening

Turkmenistan:
  green field with a vertical red stripe near the hoist
  side, containing five carpet guls (designs used in producing rugs)
  stacked above two crossed olive branches similar to the olive
  branches on the UN flag; a white crescent moon and five white stars
  appear in the upper corner of the field just to the fly side of the
  red stripe

Turks and Caicos Islands:
  blue, with the flag of the UK in the upper
  hoist-side quadrant and the colonial shield centered on the outer
  half of the flag; the shield is yellow and contains a conch shell,
  lobster, and cactus

Tuvalu:
  light blue with the flag of the UK in the upper hoist-side
  quadrant; the outer half of the flag represents a map of the country
  with nine yellow five-pointed stars symbolizing the nine islands

Uganda:
  six equal horizontal bands of black (top), yellow, red,
  black, yellow, and red; a white disk is superimposed at the center
  and depicts a red-crested crane (the national symbol) facing the
  hoist side

Ukraine:
  two equal horizontal bands of azure (top) and golden yellow
  represent grainfields under a blue sky

United Arab Emirates:
  three equal horizontal bands of green (top),
  white, and black with a thicker vertical red band on the hoist side

United Kingdom:
  blue with the red cross of Saint George (patron
  saint of England) edged in white superimposed on the diagonal red
  cross of Saint Patrick (patron saint of Ireland) and which is
  superimposed on the diagonal white cross of Saint Andrew (patron
  saint of Scotland); known as the Union Flag or Union Jack; the
  design and colors (especially the Blue Ensign) have been the basis
  for a number of other flags including other Commonwealth countries
  and their constituent states or provinces, as well as British
  overseas territories

United States:
  thirteen equal horizontal stripes of red (top and
  bottom) alternating with white; there is a blue rectangle in the
  upper hoist-side corner bearing 50 small, white, five-pointed stars
  arranged in nine offset horizontal rows of six stars (top and
  bottom) alternating with rows of five stars; the 50 stars represent
  the 50 states, the 13 stripes represent the 13 original colonies;
  known as Old Glory; the design and colors have been the basis for a
  number of other flags, including Chile, Liberia, Malaysia, and
  Puerto Rico

Uruguay:
  nine equal horizontal stripes of white (top and bottom)
  alternating with blue; there is a white square in the upper
  hoist-side corner with a yellow sun bearing a human face known as
  the Sun of May and 16 rays alternately triangular and wavy

Uzbekistan:
  three equal horizontal bands of blue (top), white, and
  green separated by red fimbriations with a white crescent moon and
  12 white stars in the upper hoist-side quadrant

Vanuatu:
  two equal horizontal bands of red (top) and green with a
  black isosceles triangle (based on the hoist side) all separated by
  a black-edged yellow stripe in the shape of a horizontal Y (the two
  points of the Y face the hoist side and enclose the triangle);
  centered in the triangle is a boar's tusk encircling two crossed
  namele leaves, all in yellow

Venezuela:
  three equal horizontal bands of yellow (top), blue, and
  red with the coat of arms on the hoist side of the yellow band and
  an arc of seven white five-pointed stars centered in the blue band

Vietnam:
  red with a large yellow five-pointed star in the center

Virgin Islands:
  white, with a modified US coat of arms in the center
  between the large blue initials V and I; the coat of arms shows a
  yellow eagle holding an olive branch in one talon and three arrows
  in the other with a superimposed shield of vertical red and white
  stripes below a blue panel

Wake Island:
  the flag of the US is used

Wallis and Futuna:
  a large white modified Maltese cross centered on
  a red background; the flag of France outlined in white on two sides
  is in the upper hoist quadrant; the flag of France is used for
  official occasions

Yemen:
  three equal horizontal bands of red (top), white, and black;
  similar to the flag of Syria which has two green stars and of Iraq
  which has three green stars (plus an Arabic inscription) in a
  horizontal line centered in the white band; also similar to the flag
  of Egypt which has a heraldic eagle centered in the white band

Yugoslavia:
  three equal horizontal bands of blue (top), white, and
  red

Zambia:
  green with a panel of three vertical bands of red (hoist
  side), black, and orange below a soaring orange eagle, on the outer
  edge of the flag

Zimbabwe:
  seven equal horizontal bands of green, yellow, red, black,
  red, yellow, and green with a white isosceles triangle edged in
  black with its base on the hoist side; a yellow Zimbabwe bird is
  superimposed on a red five-pointed star in the center of the triangle

Taiwan:
  red with a dark blue rectangle in the upper hoist-side
  corner bearing a white sun with 12 triangular rays

======================================================================

@GDP



Afghanistan:
  purchasing power parity - $21 billion (2000 est.)

Albania:
  purchasing power parity - $10.5 billion (2000 est.)

Algeria:
  purchasing power parity - $171 billion (2000 est.)

American Samoa:
  purchasing power parity - $500 million (2000 est.)

Andorra:
  purchasing power parity - $1.2 billion (1996 est.)

Angola:
  purchasing power parity - $10.1 billion (2000 est.)

Anguilla:
  purchasing power parity - $96 million (1999 est.)

Antigua and Barbuda:
  purchasing power parity - $533 million (1999
  est.)

Argentina:
  purchasing power parity - $476 billion (2000 est.)

Armenia:
  purchasing power parity - $10 billion (2000 est.)

Aruba:
  purchasing power parity - $2 billion (2000 est.)

Australia:
  purchasing power parity - $445.8 billion (2000 est.)

Austria:
  purchasing power parity - $203 billion (2000 est.)

Azerbaijan:
  purchasing power parity - $23.5 billion (2000 est.)

Bahamas, The:
  purchasing power parity - $4.5 billion (2000 est.)

Bahrain:
  purchasing power parity - $10.1 billion (2000 est.)

Bangladesh:
  purchasing power parity - $203 billion (2000 est.)

Barbados:
  purchasing power parity - $4 billion (2000 est.)

Belarus:
  purchasing power parity - $78.8 billion (2000 est.)

Belgium:
  purchasing power parity - $259.2 billion (2000 est.)

Belize:
  purchasing power parity - $790 million (2000 est.)

Benin:
  purchasing power parity - $6.6 billion (2000 est.)

Bermuda:
  purchasing power parity - $2.1 billion (2000 est.)

Bhutan:
  purchasing power parity - $2.3 billion (2000 est.)

Bolivia:
  purchasing power parity - $20.9 billion (2000 est.)

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  purchasing power parity - $6.5 billion (2000
  est.)

Botswana:
  purchasing power parity - $10.4 billion (2000 est.)

Brazil:
  purchasing power parity - $1.13 trillion (2000 est.)

British Virgin Islands:
  purchasing power parity - $311 million (2000
  est.)

Brunei:
  purchasing power parity - $5.9 billion (2000 est.)

Bulgaria:
  purchasing power parity - $48 billion (2000 est.)

Burkina Faso:
  purchasing power parity - $12 billion (2000 est.)

Burma:
  purchasing power parity - $63.7 billion (2000 est.)

Burundi:
  purchasing power parity - $4.4 billion (2000 est.)

Cambodia:
  purchasing power parity - $16.1 billion (2000 est.)

Cameroon:
  purchasing power parity - $26 billion (2000 est.)

Canada:
  purchasing power parity - $774.7 billion (2000 est.)

Cape Verde:
  purchasing power parity - $670 million (2000 est.)

Cayman Islands:
  purchasing power parity - $930 million (1997 est.)

Central African Republic:
  purchasing power parity - $6.1 billion
  (2000 est.)

Chad:
  purchasing power parity - $8.1 billion (2000 est.)

Chile:
  purchasing power parity - $153.1 billion (2000 est.)

China:
  purchasing power parity - $4.5 trillion (2000 est.)

Christmas Island:
  purchasing power parity - $NA

Cocos (Keeling) Islands:
  purchasing power parity - $NA

Colombia:
  purchasing power parity - $250 billion (2000 est.)

Comoros:
  purchasing power parity - $419 million (2000 est.)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  purchasing power parity - $31
  billion (2000 est.)

Congo, Republic of the:
  purchasing power parity - $3.1 billion (2000
  est.)

Cook Islands:
  purchasing power parity - $100 million (1999 est.)

Costa Rica:
  purchasing power parity - $25 billion (2000 est.)

Cote d'Ivoire:
  purchasing power parity - $26.2 billion (2000 est.)

Croatia:
  purchasing power parity - $24.9 billion (2000 est.)

Cuba:
  purchasing power parity - $19.2 billion (2000 est.)

Cyprus:
  Greek Cypriot area: purchasing power parity - $9.7 billion
  (2000 est.); Turkish Cypriot area: purchasing power parity - $830
  million (1999 est.)

Czech Republic:
  purchasing power parity - $132.4 billion (2000 est.)

Denmark:
  purchasing power parity - $136.2 billion (2000 est.)

Djibouti:
  purchasing power parity - $574 million (2000 est.)

Dominica:
  purchasing power parity - $290 million (2000 est.)

Dominican Republic:
  purchasing power parity - $48.3 billion (2000
  est.)

Ecuador:
  purchasing power parity - $37.2 billion (2000 est.)

Egypt:
  purchasing power parity - $247 billion (2000 est.)

El Salvador:
  purchasing power parity - $24 billion (2000 est.)

Equatorial Guinea:
  purchasing power parity - $960 million (2000 est.)

Eritrea:
  purchasing power parity - $2.9 billion (2000 est.)

Estonia:
  purchasing power parity - $14.7 billion (2000 est.)

Ethiopia:
  purchasing power parity - $39.2 billion (2000 est.)

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas):
  purchasing power parity - $52
  million (FY95/96 est.)

Faroe Islands:
  purchasing power parity - $910 million (2000 est.)

Fiji:
  purchasing power parity - $5.9 billion (1999 est.)

Finland:
  purchasing power parity - $118.3 billion (2000 est.)

France:
  purchasing power parity - $1.448 trillion (2000 est.)

French Guiana:
  purchasing power parity - $1 billion (1998 est.)

French Polynesia:
  purchasing power parity - $2.6 billion (1997 est.)

Gabon:
  purchasing power parity - $7.7 billion (2000 est.)

Gambia, The:
  purchasing power parity - $1.5 billion (2000 est.)

Gaza Strip:
  purchasing power parity - $1.11 billion (2000 est.)

Georgia:
  purchasing power parity - $22.8 billion (2000 est.)

Germany:
  purchasing power parity - $1.936 trillion (2000 est.)

Ghana:
  purchasing power parity - $37.4 billion (2000 est.)

Gibraltar:
  purchasing power parity - $500 million (1997 est.)

Greece:
  purchasing power parity - $181.9 billion (2000 est.)

Greenland:
  purchasing power parity - $1.1 billion (2000 est.)

Grenada:
  purchasing power parity - $394 million (2000 est.)

Guadeloupe:
  purchasing power parity - $3.7 billion (1997 est.)

Guam:
  purchasing power parity - $3.2 billion (2000 est.)

Guatemala:
  purchasing power parity - $46.2 billion (2000 est.)

Guernsey:
  purchasing power parity - $1.3 billion (1999 est.)

Guinea:
  purchasing power parity - $10 billion (2000 est.)

Guinea-Bissau:
  purchasing power parity - $1.1 billion (2000 est.)

Guyana:
  purchasing power parity - $3.4 billion (2000 est.)

Haiti:
  purchasing power parity - $12.7 billion (2000 est.)

Honduras:
  purchasing power parity - $17 billion (2000 est.)

Hong Kong:
  purchasing power parity - $181 billion (2000 est.)

Hungary:
  purchasing power parity - $113.9 billion (2000 est.)

Iceland:
  purchasing power parity - $6.85 billion (2000 est.)

India:
  purchasing power parity - $2.2 trillion (2000 est.)

Indonesia:
  purchasing power parity - $654 billion (2000 est.)

Iran:
  purchasing power parity - $413 billion (2000 est.)

Iraq:
  purchasing power parity - $57 billion (2000 est.)

Ireland:
  purchasing power parity - $81.9 billion (2000 est.)

Israel:
  purchasing power parity - $110.2 billion (2000 est.)

Italy:
  purchasing power parity - $1.273 trillion (2000 est.)

Jamaica:
  purchasing power parity - $9.7 billion (2000 est.)

Japan:
  purchasing power parity - $3.15 trillion (2000 est.)

Jersey:
  purchasing power parity - $2.2 billion (1999 est.)

Jordan:
  purchasing power parity - $17.3 billion (2000 est.)

Kazakhstan:
  purchasing power parity - $85.6 billion (2000 est.)

Kenya:
  purchasing power parity - $45.6 billion (2000 est.)

Kiribati:
  purchasing power parity - $76 million (2000 est.),
  supplemented by a nearly equal amount from external sources

Korea, North:
  purchasing power parity - $22 billion (2000 est.)

Korea, South:
  purchasing power parity - $764.6 billion (2000 est.)

Kuwait:
  purchasing power parity - $29.3 billion (2000 est.)

Kyrgyzstan:
  purchasing power parity - $12.6 billion (2000 est.)

Laos:
  purchasing power parity - $9 billion (2000 est.)

Latvia:
  purchasing power parity - $17.3 billion (2000 est.)

Lebanon:
  purchasing power parity - $18.2 billion (2000 est.)

Lesotho:
  purchasing power parity - $5.1 billion (2000 est.)

Liberia:
  purchasing power parity - $3.35 billion (2000 est.)

Libya:
  purchasing power parity - $45.4 billion (2000 est.)

Liechtenstein:
  purchasing power parity - $730 million (1998 est.)

Lithuania:
  purchasing power parity - $26.4 billion (2000 est.)

Luxembourg:
  purchasing power parity - $15.9 billion (2000 est.)

Macau:
  purchasing power parity - $7.82 billion (2000 est.)

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  purchasing power parity
  - $9 billion (2000 est.)

Madagascar:
  purchasing power parity - $12.3 billion (2000 est.)

Malawi:
  purchasing power parity - $9.4 billion (2000 est.)

Malaysia:
  purchasing power parity - $223.7 billion (2000 est.)

Maldives:
  purchasing power parity - $594 million (2000 est.)

Mali:
  purchasing power parity - $9.1 billion (2000 est.)

Malta:
  purchasing power parity - $5.6 billion (2000 est.)

Man, Isle of:
  purchasing power parity - $1.4 billion (1999 est.)

Marshall Islands:
  purchasing power parity - $105 million (1998
  est.), supplemented by approximately $65 million annual US aid

Martinique:
  purchasing power parity - $4.39 billion (1997 est.)

Mauritania:
  purchasing power parity - $5.4 billion (2000 est.)

Mauritius:
  purchasing power parity - $12.3 billion (2000 est.)

Mayotte:
  purchasing power parity - $85 million (1998 est.)

Mexico:
  purchasing power parity - $915 billion (2000 est.)

Micronesia, Federated States of:
  purchasing power parity - $263
  million (1999 est.)

  note:  GDP is supplemented by grant aid, averaging perhaps $100
  million annually

Moldova:
  purchasing power parity - $11.3 billion (2000 est.)

Monaco:
  purchasing power parity - $870 million (1999 est.)

Mongolia:
  purchasing power parity - $4.7 billion (2000 est.)

Montserrat:
  purchasing power parity - $31 million (1999 est.)

Morocco:
  purchasing power parity - $105 billion (2000 est.)

Mozambique:
  purchasing power parity - $19.1 billion (2000 est.)

Namibia:
  purchasing power parity - $7.6 billion (2000 est.)

Nauru:
  purchasing power parity - $59 million (2000 est.)

Nepal:
  purchasing power parity - $33.7 billion (2000 est.)

Netherlands:
  purchasing power parity - $388.4 billion (2000 est.)

Netherlands Antilles:
  purchasing power parity - $2.4 billion (2000
  est.)

New Caledonia:
  purchasing power parity - $3 billion (1998 est.)

New Zealand:
  purchasing power parity - $67.6 billion (2000 est.)

Nicaragua:
  purchasing power parity - $13.1 billion (2000 est.)

Niger:
  purchasing power parity - $10 billion (2000 est.)

Nigeria:
  purchasing power parity - $117 billion (2000 est.)

Niue:
  purchasing power parity - $4.5 million (1997 est.)

Norfolk Island:
  purchasing power parity - $NA

Northern Mariana Islands:
  purchasing power parity - $900 million
  (2000 est.)

  note:  GDP numbers reflect US spending

Norway:
  purchasing power parity - $124.1 billion (1999 est.)

Oman:
  purchasing power parity - $19.6 billion (2000 est.)

Pakistan:
  purchasing power parity - $282 billion (2000 est.)

Palau:
  purchasing power parity - $129 million (1998 est.)

  note:  GDP numbers reflect US spending

Panama:
  purchasing power parity - $16.6 billion (2000 est.)

Papua New Guinea:
  purchasing power parity - $12.2 billion (2000 est.)

Paraguay:
  purchasing power parity - $26.2 billion (2000 est.)

Peru:
  purchasing power parity - $123 billion (2000 est.)

Philippines:
  purchasing power parity - $310 billion (2000 est.)

Pitcairn Islands:
  purchasing power parity - $NA

Poland:
  purchasing power parity - $327.5 billion (2000 est.)

Portugal:
  purchasing power parity - $159 billion (2000 est.)

Puerto Rico:
  purchasing power parity - $39 billion (2000 est.)

Qatar:
  purchasing power parity - $15.1 billion (2000 est.)

Reunion:
  purchasing power parity - $3.4 billion (1998 est.)

Romania:
  purchasing power parity - $132.5 billion (2000 est.)

Russia:
  purchasing power parity - $1.12 trillion (2000 est.)

Rwanda:
  purchasing power parity - $6.4 billion (2000 est.)

Saint Helena:
  purchasing power parity - $18 million (1998 est.)

Saint Kitts and Nevis:
  purchasing power parity - $274 million (2000
  est.)

Saint Lucia:
  purchasing power parity - $700 million (2000 est.)

Saint Pierre and Miquelon:
  purchasing power parity - $74 million
  (1996 est.); supplemented by annual payments from France of about
  $60 million

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:
  purchasing power parity - $322
  million (2000 est.)

Samoa:
  purchasing power parity - $571 million (2000 est.)

San Marino:
  purchasing power parity - $860 million (2000 est.)

Sao Tome and Principe:
  purchasing power parity - $178 million (2000
  est.)

Saudi Arabia:
  purchasing power parity - $232 billion (2000 est.)

Senegal:
  purchasing power parity - $16 billion (2000 est.)

Seychelles:
  purchasing power parity - $610 million (2000 est.)

Sierra Leone:
  purchasing power parity - $2.7 billion (2000 est.)

Singapore:
  purchasing power parity - $109.8 billion (2000 est.)

Slovakia:
  purchasing power parity - $55.3 billion (2000 est.)

Slovenia:
  purchasing power parity - $22.9 billion (2000 est.)

Solomon Islands:
  purchasing power parity - $900 million (2000 est.)

Somalia:
  purchasing power parity - $4.3 billion (2000 est.)

South Africa:
  purchasing power parity - $369 billion (2000 est.)

Spain:
  purchasing power parity - $720.8 billion (2000 est.)

Sri Lanka:
  purchasing power parity - $62.7 billion (2000 est.)

Sudan:
  purchasing power parity - $35.7 billion (2000 est.)

Suriname:
  purchasing power parity - $1.48 billion (1999 est.)

Svalbard:
  purchasing power parity - $NA

Swaziland:
  purchasing power parity - $4.4 billion (2000 est.)

Sweden:
  purchasing power parity - $197 billion (2000 est.)

Switzerland:
  purchasing power parity - $207 billion (2000 est.)

Syria:
  purchasing power parity - $50.9 billion (2000 est.)

Tajikistan:
  purchasing power parity - $7.3 billion (2000 est.)

Tanzania:
  purchasing power parity - $25.1 billion (2000 est.)

Thailand:
  purchasing power parity - $413 billion (2000 est.)

Togo:
  purchasing power parity - $7.3 billion (2000 est.)

Tokelau:
  purchasing power parity - $1.5 million (1993 est.)

Tonga:
  purchasing power parity - $225 million (2000 est.)

Trinidad and Tobago:
  purchasing power parity - $11.2 billion (2000
  est.)

Tunisia:
  purchasing power parity - $62.8 billion (2000 est.)

Turkey:
  purchasing power parity - $444 billion (2000 est.)

Turkmenistan:
  purchasing power parity - $19.6 billion (2000 est.)

Turks and Caicos Islands:
  purchasing power parity - $128 million
  (1999 est.)

Tuvalu:
  purchasing power parity - $11.6 million (1999 est.)

Uganda:
  purchasing power parity - $26.2 billion (2000 est.)

Ukraine:
  purchasing power parity - $189.4 billion (2000 est.)

United Arab Emirates:
  purchasing power parity - $54 billion (2000
  est.)

United Kingdom:
  purchasing power parity - $1.36 trillion (2000 est.)

United States:
  purchasing power parity - $9.963 trillion (2000 est.)

Uruguay:
  purchasing power parity - $31 billion (2000 est.)

Uzbekistan:
  purchasing power parity - $60 billion (2000 est.)

Vanuatu:
  purchasing power parity - $245 million (1999 est.)

Venezuela:
  purchasing power parity - $146.2 billion (2000 est.)

Vietnam:
  purchasing power parity - $154.4 billion (2000 est.)

Virgin Islands:
  purchasing power parity - $1.8 billion (2000 est.)

Wallis and Futuna:
  purchasing power parity - $30 million (1997 est.)

West Bank:
  purchasing power parity - $3.1 billion (2000 est.)

Western Sahara:
  purchasing power parity - $NA

World:
  GWP (gross world product) - purchasing power parity - $43.6
  trillion (2000 est.)

Yemen:
  purchasing power parity - $14.4 billion (2000 est.)

Yugoslavia:
  purchasing power parity - $24.2 billion (2000 est.)

Zambia:
  purchasing power parity - $8.5 billion (2000 est.)

Zimbabwe:
  purchasing power parity - $28.2 billion (2000 est.)

Taiwan:
  purchasing power parity - $386 billion (2000 est.)

======================================================================

@GDP - composition by sector



Afghanistan:
  agriculture:  53%

  industry:  28.5%

  services:  18.5% (1990)

Albania:
  agriculture:  55%

  industry:  24%

  services:  21% (2000)

Algeria:
  agriculture:  11%

  industry:  37%

  services:  52% (1999 est.)

American Samoa:
  agriculture:  NA%

  industry:  NA%

  services:  NA%

Andorra:
  agriculture:  NA%

  industry:  NA%

  services:  NA%

Angola:
  agriculture:  7%

  industry:  60%

  services:  33% (1999 est.)

Anguilla:
  agriculture:  4%

  industry:  18%

  services:  78% (1997 est.)

Antigua and Barbuda:
  agriculture:  4%

  industry:  12.5%

  services:  83.5% (1996 est.)

Argentina:
  agriculture:  6%

  industry:  32%

  services:  62% (2000 est.)

Armenia:
  agriculture:  40%

  industry:  25%

  services:  35% (1999 est.)

Aruba:
  agriculture:  NA%

  industry:  NA%

  services:  NA%

Australia:
  agriculture:  3%

  industry:  26%

  services:  71% (1999 est.)

Austria:
  agriculture:  2.2%

  industry:  30.4%

  services:  67.4% (1999 est.)

Azerbaijan:
  agriculture:  22%

  industry:  33%

  services:  45% (1999 est.)

Bahamas, The:
  agriculture:  3%

  industry:  7%

  services:  90% (1999 est.)

Bahrain:
  agriculture:  1%

  industry:  46%

  services:  53% (1996 est.)

Bangladesh:
  agriculture:  30%

  industry:  18%

  services:  52% (2000 est.)

Barbados:
  agriculture:  4%

  industry:  16%

  services:  80% (1998)

Belarus:
  agriculture:  13%

  industry:  46%

  services:  41% (1999 est.)

Belgium:
  agriculture:  1.4%

  industry:  26%

  services:  72.6% (2000 est.)

Belize:
  agriculture:  18%

  industry:  24%

  services:  58% (2000 est.)

Benin:
  agriculture:  37.9%

  industry:  13.5%

  services:  48.6% (1999)

Bermuda:
  agriculture:  1%

  industry:  10%

  services:  89% (1995 est.)

Bhutan:
  agriculture:  38%

  industry:  37%

  services:  25% (2000 est.)

Bolivia:
  agriculture:  16%

  industry:  31%

  services:  53% (1999 est.)

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  agriculture:  19%

  industry:  23%

  services:  58% (1996 est.)

Botswana:
  agriculture:  4%

  industry:  46% (including 36% mining)

  services:  50% (1998 est.)

Brazil:
  agriculture:  9%

  industry:  29%

  services:  62% (1999 est.)

British Virgin Islands:
  agriculture:  1.8%

  industry:  6.2%

  services:  92% (1996 est.)

Brunei:
  agriculture:  5%

  industry:  46%

  services:  49% (1996 est.)

Bulgaria:
  agriculture:  15%

  industry:  29%

  services:  56% (2000 est.)

Burkina Faso:
  agriculture:  26%

  industry:  27%

  services:  47% (1998)

Burma:
  agriculture:  42%

  industry:  17%

  services:  41% (2000 est.)

Burundi:
  agriculture:  50%

  industry:  18%

  services:  32% (1999 est.)

Cambodia:
  agriculture:  43%

  industry:  20%

  services:  37% (1998 est.)

Cameroon:
  agriculture:  43.4%

  industry:  20.1%

  services:  36.5% (1999 est.)

Canada:
  agriculture:  3%

  industry:  31%

  services:  66% (2000 est.)

Cape Verde:
  agriculture:  13%

  industry:  19%

  services:  68% (1998)

Cayman Islands:
  agriculture:  1.4%

  industry:  3.2%

  services:  95.4% (1994 est.)

Central African Republic:
  agriculture:  53%

  industry:  20%

  services:  27% (1999 est.)

Chad:
  agriculture:  40%

  industry:  14%

  services:  46% (1998)

Chile:
  agriculture:  8%

  industry:  38%

  services:  54% (2000)

China:
  agriculture:  15%

  industry:  50%

  services:  35% (2000 est.)

Christmas Island:
  agriculture:  NA%

  industry:  NA%

  services:  NA%

Cocos (Keeling) Islands:
  agriculture:  NA%

  industry:  NA%

  services:  NA%

Colombia:
  agriculture:  19%

  industry:  26%

  services:  55% (1999 est.)

Comoros:
  agriculture:  40%

  industry:  4%

  services:  56% (2000 est.)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  agriculture:  58%

  industry:  17%

  services:  25% (1997 est.)

Congo, Republic of the:
  agriculture:  10%

  industry:  48%

  services:  42% (1999 est.)

Cook Islands:
  agriculture:  18%

  industry:  9%

  services:  73% (1995)

Costa Rica:
  agriculture:  12.5%

  industry:  30.7%

  services:  56.8% (1999)

Cote d'Ivoire:
  agriculture:  32%

  industry:  18%

  services:  50% (1998)

Croatia:
  agriculture:  10%

  industry:  19%

  services:  71% (1999 est.)

Cuba:
  agriculture:  7%

  industry:  37%

  services:  56% (1998 est.)

Cyprus:
  Greek Cypriot area: agriculture 6.3%, industry 22.4%,
  services 71.3% (1998); Turkish Cypriot area: agriculture 11.8%,
  industry 20.5%, services 67.7% (1998)

Czech Republic:
  agriculture:  3.7%

  industry:  41.8%

  services:  54.5% (1999)

Denmark:
  agriculture:  3%

  industry:  25%

  services:  72% (2000 est.)

Djibouti:
  agriculture:  3%

  industry:  22%

  services:  75% (1998 est.)

Dominica:
  agriculture:  21%

  industry:  16%

  services:  63% (1999 est.)

Dominican Republic:
  agriculture:  11.3%

  industry:  32.2%

  services:  56.5% (1999 est.)

Ecuador:
  agriculture:  14%

  industry:  36%

  services:  50% (1999 est.)

Egypt:
  agriculture:  17%

  industry:  32%

  services:  51% (1999)

El Salvador:
  agriculture:  12%

  industry:  28%

  services:  60% (1999 est.)

Equatorial Guinea:
  agriculture:  20%

  industry:  60%

  services:  20% (1999 est.)

Eritrea:
  agriculture:  16%

  industry:  27%

  services:  57% (2000 est.)

Estonia:
  agriculture:  3.6%

  industry:  30.7%

  services:  65.7% (1999)

Ethiopia:
  agriculture:  45%

  industry:  12%

  services:  43% (1999 est.)

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas):
  agriculture:  NA%

  industry:  NA%

  services:  NA%

Faroe Islands:
  agriculture:  27%

  industry:  11%

  services:  62% (1999)

Fiji:
  agriculture:  16%

  industry:  30%

  services:  54% (1999 est.)

Finland:
  agriculture:  3.5%

  industry:  29%

  services:  67.5% (1999)

France:
  agriculture:  3.3%

  industry:  26.1%

  services:  70.6% (1999)

French Guiana:
  agriculture:  NA%

  industry:  NA%

  services:  NA%

French Polynesia:
  agriculture:  4%

  industry:  18%

  services:  78% (1997)

Gabon:
  agriculture:  10%

  industry:  60%

  services:  30% (1999 est.)

Gambia, The:
  agriculture:  21%

  industry:  12%

  services:  67% (1998 est.)

Gaza Strip:
  agriculture:  9%

  industry:  28%

  services:  63% (1999 est., includes West Bank)

Georgia:
  agriculture:  32%

  industry:  23%

  services:  45% (1999 est.)

Germany:
  agriculture:  1.2%

  industry:  30.4%

  services:  68.4% (1999)

Ghana:
  agriculture:  36%

  industry:  25%

  services:  39% (2000 est.)

Gibraltar:
  agriculture:  NA%

  industry:  NA%

  services:  NA%

Greece:
  agriculture:  8.3%

  industry:  27.3%

  services:  64.4% (1998)

Greenland:
  agriculture:  NA%

  industry:  NA%

  services:  NA%

Grenada:
  agriculture:  9.7%

  industry:  15%

  services:  75.3% (1996 est.)

Guadeloupe:
  agriculture:  15%

  industry:  17%

  services:  68% (1997 est.)

Guam:
  agriculture:  NA%

  industry:  15% (1993)

  services:  NA%

Guatemala:
  agriculture:  23%

  industry:  20%

  services:  57% (2000 est.)

Guernsey:
  agriculture:  3%

  industry:  10%

  services:  87% (2000)

Guinea:
  agriculture:  22.3%

  industry:  35.3%

  services:  42.4% (1998 est.)

Guinea-Bissau:
  agriculture:  54%

  industry:  15%

  services:  31% (1997 est.)

Guyana:
  agriculture:  34.7%

  industry:  32.5%

  services:  32.8% (1998 est.)

Haiti:
  agriculture:  32%

  industry:  20%

  services:  48% (1999 est.)

Honduras:
  agriculture:  16.2%

  industry:  31.9%

  services:  51.9% (1999 est.)

Hong Kong:
  agriculture:  0.1%

  industry:  14.3%

  services:  85.6% (1999 est.)

Hungary:
  agriculture:  5%

  industry:  35%

  services:  60% (2000 est.)

Iceland:
  agriculture:  15% (includes fishing 13%)

  industry:  21%

  services:  64% (1999 est.)

India:
  agriculture:  25%

  industry:  24%

  services:  51% (2000)

Indonesia:
  agriculture:  21%

  industry:  35%

  services:  44% (1999 est.)

Iran:
  agriculture:  24%

  industry:  28%

  services:  48% (2000 est.)

Iraq:
  agriculture:  6%

  industry:  13%

  services:  81% (1993 est.)

Ireland:
  agriculture:  4%

  industry:  38%

  services:  58% (1999)

Israel:
  agriculture:  4%

  industry:  37%

  services:  59% (1999 est.)

Italy:
  agriculture:  2.5%

  industry:  30.4%

  services:  67.1% (2000 est.)

Jamaica:
  agriculture:  7.4%

  industry:  35.2%

  services:  57.4% (1999 est.)

Japan:
  agriculture:  2%

  industry:  35%

  services:  63% (1999 est.)

Jersey:
  agriculture:  5%

  industry:  2%

  services:  93% (1996)

Jordan:
  agriculture:  3%

  industry:  25%

  services:  72% (1998 est.)

Kazakhstan:
  agriculture:  10%

  industry:  30%

  services:  60% (1999 est.)

Kenya:
  agriculture:  25%

  industry:  13%

  services:  62% (1999 est.)

Kiribati:
  agriculture:  14%

  industry:  7%

  services:  79% (1996 est.)

Korea, North:
  agriculture:  30%

  industry:  42%

  services:  28% (1999 est.)

Korea, South:
  agriculture:  5.6%

  industry:  41.4%

  services:  53% (1999 est.)

Kuwait:
  agriculture:  0%

  industry:  55%

  services:  45% (1996)

Kyrgyzstan:
  agriculture:  39%

  industry:  22%

  services:  39% (1999 est.)

Laos:
  agriculture:  51%

  industry:  22%

  services:  27% (1999 est.)

Latvia:
  agriculture:  5%

  industry:  33%

  services:  62% (1999)

Lebanon:
  agriculture:  12%

  industry:  27%

  services:  61% (1999 est.)

Lesotho:
  agriculture:  18%

  industry:  38%

  services:  44% (1999)

Liberia:
  agriculture:  60%

  industry:  10%

  services:  30% (2000 est.)

Libya:
  agriculture:  7%

  industry:  47%

  services:  46% (1997 est.)

Liechtenstein:
  agriculture:  NA%

  industry:  NA%

  services:  NA%

Lithuania:
  agriculture:  10%

  industry:  33%

  services:  57% (1999 est.)

Luxembourg:
  agriculture:  1%

  industry:  30%

  services:  69% (2000 est.)

Macau:
  agriculture:  1%

  industry:  25%

  services:  74% (2000 est.)

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  agriculture:  12%

  industry:  25%

  services:  63% (2000)

Madagascar:
  agriculture:  30%

  industry:  14%

  services:  56% (1999 est.)

Malawi:
  agriculture:  37%

  industry:  29%

  services:  34% (1998 est.)

Malaysia:
  agriculture:  14%

  industry:  44%

  services:  42% (2000)

Maldives:
  agriculture:  20%

  industry:  18%

  services:  62% (2000 est.)

Mali:
  agriculture:  46%

  industry:  21%

  services:  33% (1998)

Malta:
  agriculture:  2.8%

  industry:  25.5%

  services:  71.7% (1999)

Man, Isle of:
  agriculture:  1%

  industry:  9%

  services:  90% (1999 est.)

Marshall Islands:
  agriculture:  15%

  industry:  13%

  services:  72% (1995)

Martinique:
  agriculture:  6%

  industry:  11%

  services:  83% (1997 est.)

Mauritania:
  agriculture:  25%

  industry:  31%

  services:  44% (1997)

Mauritius:
  agriculture:  10%

  industry:  29%

  services:  61% (1996)

Mayotte:
  agriculture:  NA%

  industry:  NA%

  services:  NA%

Mexico:
  agriculture:  5%

  industry:  27%

  services:  68% (2000)

Micronesia, Federated States of:
  agriculture:  19%

  industry:  4%

  services:  77% (1996 est.)

Moldova:
  agriculture:  31%

  industry:  35%

  services:  34% (1998)

Monaco:
  agriculture:  NA%

  industry:  NA%

  services:  NA%

Mongolia:
  agriculture:  36%

  industry:  22%

  services:  42% (2000 est.)

Montserrat:
  agriculture:  5.4%

  industry:  13.6%

  services:  81% (1996 est.)

Morocco:
  agriculture:  15%

  industry:  33%

  services:  52% (1999 est.)

Mozambique:
  agriculture:  44%

  industry:  19%

  services:  37% (1999 est.)

Namibia:
  agriculture:  12%

  industry:  25%

  services:  63% (1999 est.)

Nauru:
  agriculture:  NA%

  industry:  NA%

  services:  NA%

Nepal:
  agriculture:  41%

  industry:  22%

  services:  37% (2000 est.)

Netherlands:
  agriculture:  3.3%

  industry:  26.3%

  services:  70.4% (2000 est.)

Netherlands Antilles:
  agriculture:  1%

  industry:  15%

  services:  84% (1996 est.)

New Caledonia:
  agriculture:  4%

  industry:  30%

  services:  66% (1997 est.)

New Zealand:
  agriculture:  8%

  industry:  23%

  services:  69% (1999)

Nicaragua:
  agriculture:  31.6%

  industry:  22.8%

  services:  45.6% (1999)

Niger:
  agriculture:  40%

  industry:  18%

  services:  42% (1998)

Nigeria:
  agriculture:  40%

  industry:  40%

  services:  20% (1999 est.)

Niue:
  agriculture:  NA%

  industry:  NA%

  services:  NA%

Norfolk Island:
  agriculture:  NA%

  industry:  NA%

  services:  NA%

Northern Mariana Islands:
  agriculture:  NA%

  industry:  NA%

  services:  NA%

Norway:
  agriculture:  2%

  industry:  25%

  services:  73% (1999)

Oman:
  agriculture:  3%

  industry:  40%

  services:  57% (1999 est.)

Pakistan:
  agriculture:  25.4%

  industry:  24.9%

  services:  49.7% (1999 est.)

Palau:
  agriculture:  NA%

  industry:  NA%

  services:  NA%

Panama:
  agriculture:  7%

  industry:  16.5%

  services:  76.5% (1999 est.)

Papua New Guinea:
  agriculture:  30%

  industry:  35%

  services:  35% (1999 est.)

Paraguay:
  agriculture:  28%

  industry:  21%

  services:  51% (1999 est.)

Peru:
  agriculture:  15%

  industry:  42%

  services:  43% (1999)

Philippines:
  agriculture:  20%

  industry:  32%

  services:  48% (1997 est.)

Pitcairn Islands:
  agriculture:  NA%

  industry:  NA%

  services:  NA%

Poland:
  agriculture:  3.8%

  industry:  36.6%

  services:  59.6% (1999)

Portugal:
  agriculture:  4%

  industry:  36%

  services:  60% (1999 est.)

Puerto Rico:
  agriculture:  1%

  industry:  45%

  services:  54% (1999 est.)

Qatar:
  agriculture:  1%

  industry:  49%

  services:  50% (1996 est.)

Reunion:
  agriculture:  NA%

  industry:  NA%

  services:  NA%

Romania:
  agriculture:  13.9%

  industry:  32.6%

  services:  53.5% (2000)

Russia:
  agriculture:  7%

  industry:  34%

  services:  59% (1999 est.)

Rwanda:
  agriculture:  40%

  industry:  20%

  services:  40% (2000 est.)

Saint Helena:
  agriculture:  NA%

  industry:  NA%

  services:  NA%

Saint Kitts and Nevis:
  agriculture:  5.5%

  industry:  22.5%

  services:  72% (1996)

Saint Lucia:
  agriculture:  10.7%

  industry:  32.3%

  services:  57% (1996 est.)

Saint Pierre and Miquelon:
  agriculture:  NA%

  industry:  NA%

  services:  NA%

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:
  agriculture:  10.6%

  industry:  17.5%

  services:  71.9% (1996 est.)

Samoa:
  agriculture:  15%

  industry:  24%

  services:  61% (2000 est.)

San Marino:
  agriculture:  NA%

  industry:  NA%

  services:  NA%

Sao Tome and Principe:
  agriculture:  23%

  industry:  19%

  services:  58% (1997 est.)

Saudi Arabia:
  agriculture:  6%

  industry:  47%

  services:  47% (1998 est.)

Senegal:
  agriculture:  19%

  industry:  20%

  services:  61% (1997 est.)

Seychelles:
  agriculture:  3.1%

  industry:  26.3%

  services:  70.6% (1999)

Sierra Leone:
  agriculture:  43%

  industry:  26%

  services:  31% (1999)

Singapore:
  agriculture:  NEGL%

  industry:  30%

  services:  70%

Slovakia:
  agriculture:  4.5%

  industry:  29.3%

  services:  66.2% (1999 est.)

Slovenia:
  agriculture:  4%

  industry:  35%

  services:  61% (1999 est.)

Solomon Islands:
  agriculture:  50%

  industry:  3.5%

  services:  46.5% (1995)

Somalia:
  agriculture:  60%

  industry:  10% (largely shut down in 2000)

  services:  30% (2000 est.)

South Africa:
  agriculture:  5%

  industry:  30%

  services:  65% (1999 est.)

Spain:
  agriculture:  4%

  industry:  31%

  services:  65% (1999)

Sri Lanka:
  agriculture:  21%

  industry:  19%

  services:  60% (1998)

Sudan:
  agriculture:  39%

  industry:  17%

  services:  44% (1998 est.)

Suriname:
  agriculture:  13%

  industry:  22%

  services:  65% (1998 est.)

Swaziland:
  agriculture:  10%

  industry:  46%

  services:  44% (1998 est.)

Sweden:
  agriculture:  2.2%

  industry:  27.9%

  services:  69.9% (1999)

Switzerland:
  agriculture:  2.8%

  industry:  31.1%

  services:  66.1% (1995)

Syria:
  agriculture:  29%

  industry:  22%

  services:  49% (1997)

Tajikistan:
  agriculture:  19.8%

  industry:  18.1%

  services:  62.1% (1998)

Tanzania:
  agriculture:  49%

  industry:  17%

  services:  34% (1998 est.)

Thailand:
  agriculture:  13%

  industry:  40%

  services:  47% (1999)

Togo:
  agriculture:  42%

  industry:  21%

  services:  37% (1997)

Tokelau:
  agriculture:  NA%

  industry:  NA%

  services:  NA%

Tonga:
  agriculture:  30%

  industry:  10%

  services:  60% (1997)

Trinidad and Tobago:
  agriculture:  2%

  industry:  44%

  services:  54% (1998 est.)

Tunisia:
  agriculture:  14%

  industry:  32%

  services:  54% (1999 est.)

Turkey:
  agriculture:  15%

  industry:  29%

  services:  56% (1999)

Turkmenistan:
  agriculture:  25%

  industry:  43%

  services:  32% (1999 est.)

Turks and Caicos Islands:
  agriculture:  NA%

  industry:  NA%

  services:  NA%

Tuvalu:
  agriculture:  NA%

  industry:  NA%

  services:  NA%

Uganda:
  agriculture:  43%

  industry:  17%

  services:  40% (1998 est.)

Ukraine:
  agriculture:  12%

  industry:  26%

  services:  62% (1998 est.)

United Arab Emirates:
  agriculture:  3%

  industry:  52%

  services:  45% (1996 est.)

United Kingdom:
  agriculture:  1.7%

  industry:  24.9%

  services:  73.4% (1999)

United States:
  agriculture:  2%

  industry:  18%

  services:  80% (1999)

Uruguay:
  agriculture:  10%

  industry:  28%

  services:  62% (1999)

Uzbekistan:
  agriculture:  28%

  industry:  21%

  services:  51% (1999 est.)

Vanuatu:
  agriculture:  20%

  industry:  9%

  services:  71% (1999 est.)

Venezuela:
  agriculture:  5%

  industry:  24%

  services:  71% (1999 est.)

Vietnam:
  agriculture:  25%

  industry:  35%

  services:  40% (1999 est.)

Virgin Islands:
  agriculture:  NA%

  industry:  NA%

  services:  NA%

Wallis and Futuna:
  agriculture:  NA%

  industry:  NA%

  services:  NA%

West Bank:
  agriculture:  9%

  industry:  28%

  services:  63%

  note:  includes Gaza Strip (1999 est.)

Western Sahara:
  agriculture:  NA%

  industry:  NA%

  services:  40%-45% (1996 est.)

World:
  agriculture:  4%

  industry:  32%

  services:  64% (1999 est.)

Yemen:
  agriculture:  20%

  industry:  42%

  services:  38% (1998)

Yugoslavia:
  agriculture:  20%

  industry:  50%

  services:  30% (1998 est.)

Zambia:
  agriculture:  18%

  industry:  27%

  services:  55% (1999 est.)

Zimbabwe:
  agriculture:  28%

  industry:  32%

  services:  40% (1997 est.)

Taiwan:
  agriculture:  3%

  industry:  33%

  services:  64% (1999 est.)

======================================================================

@GDP - per capita



Afghanistan:
  purchasing power parity - $800 (2000 est.)

Albania:
  purchasing power parity - $3,000 (2000 est.)

Algeria:
  purchasing power parity - $5,500 (2000 est.)

American Samoa:
  purchasing power parity - $8,000 (2000 est.)

Andorra:
  purchasing power parity - $18,000 (1996 est.)

Angola:
  purchasing power parity - $1,000 (2000 est.)

Anguilla:
  purchasing power parity - $8,200 (1999 est.)

Antigua and Barbuda:
  purchasing power parity - $8,200 (1999 est.)

Argentina:
  purchasing power parity - $12,900 (2000 est.)

Armenia:
  purchasing power parity - $3,000 (2000 est.)

Aruba:
  purchasing power parity - $28,000 (2000 est.)

Australia:
  purchasing power parity - $23,200 (2000 est.)

Austria:
  purchasing power parity - $25,000 (2000 est.)

Azerbaijan:
  purchasing power parity - $3,000 (2000 est.)

Bahamas, The:
  purchasing power parity - $15,000 (2000 est.)

Bahrain:
  purchasing power parity - $15,900 (2000 est.)

Bangladesh:
  purchasing power parity - $1,570 (2000 est.)

Barbados:
  purchasing power parity - $14,500 (2000 est.)

Belarus:
  purchasing power parity - $7,500 (2000 est.)

Belgium:
  purchasing power parity - $25,300 (2000 est.)

Belize:
  purchasing power parity - $3,200 (2000 est.)

Benin:
  purchasing power parity - $1,030 (2000 est.)

Bermuda:
  purchasing power parity - $33,000 (2000 est.)

Bhutan:
  purchasing power parity - $1,100 (2000 est.)

Bolivia:
  purchasing power parity - $2,600 (2000 est.)

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  purchasing power parity - $1,700 (2000 est.)

Botswana:
  purchasing power parity - $6,600 (2000 est.)

Brazil:
  purchasing power parity - $6,500 (2000 est.)

British Virgin Islands:
  purchasing power parity - $16,000 (2000 est.)

Brunei:
  purchasing power parity - $17,600 (2000 est.)

Bulgaria:
  purchasing power parity - $6,200 (2000 est.)

Burkina Faso:
  purchasing power parity - $1,000 (2000 est.)

Burma:
  purchasing power parity - $1,500 (2000 est.)

Burundi:
  purchasing power parity - $720 (2000 est.)

Cambodia:
  purchasing power parity - $1,300 (2000 est.)

Cameroon:
  purchasing power parity - $1,700 (2000 est.)

Canada:
  purchasing power parity - $24,800 (2000 est.)

Cape Verde:
  purchasing power parity - $1,700 (2000 est.)

Cayman Islands:
  purchasing power parity - $24,500 (1997 est.)

Central African Republic:
  purchasing power parity - $1,700 (2000
  est.)

Chad:
  purchasing power parity - $1,000 (2000 est.)

Chile:
  purchasing power parity - $10,100 (2000 est.)

China:
  purchasing power parity - $3,600 (2000 est.)

Christmas Island:
  purchasing power parity - $NA

Cocos (Keeling) Islands:
  purchasing power parity - $NA

Colombia:
  purchasing power parity - $6,200 (2000 est.)

Comoros:
  purchasing power parity - $720 (2000 est.)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  purchasing power parity - $600
  (2000 est.)

Congo, Republic of the:
  purchasing power parity - $1,100 (2000 est.)

Cook Islands:
  purchasing power parity - $5,000 (1999 est.)

Costa Rica:
  purchasing power parity - $6,700 (2000 est.)

Cote d'Ivoire:
  purchasing power parity - $1,600 (2000 est.)

Croatia:
  purchasing power parity - $5,800 (2000 est.)

Cuba:
  purchasing power parity - $1,700 (2000 est.)

Cyprus:
  Greek Cypriot area: purchasing power parity - $16,000 (2000
  est.); Turkish Cypriot area: purchasing power parity - $5,300 (1999
  est.)

Czech Republic:
  purchasing power parity - $12,900 (2000 est.)

Denmark:
  purchasing power parity - $25,500 (2000 est.)

Djibouti:
  purchasing power parity - $1,300 (2000 est.)

Dominica:
  purchasing power parity - $4,000 (2000 est.)

Dominican Republic:
  purchasing power parity - $5,700 (2000 est.)

Ecuador:
  purchasing power parity - $2,900 (2000 est.)

Egypt:
  purchasing power parity - $3,600 (2000 est.)

El Salvador:
  purchasing power parity - $4,000 (2000 est.)

Equatorial Guinea:
  purchasing power parity - $2,000 (2000 est.)

Eritrea:
  purchasing power parity - $710 (2000 est.)

Estonia:
  purchasing power parity - $10,000 (2000 est.)

Ethiopia:
  purchasing power parity - $600 (2000 est.)

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas):
  purchasing power parity - $19,000
  (FY95/96 est.)

Faroe Islands:
  purchasing power parity - $20,000 (2000 est.)

Fiji:
  purchasing power parity - $7,300 (1999 est.)

Finland:
  purchasing power parity - $22,900 (2000 est.)

France:
  purchasing power parity - $24,400 (2000 est.)

French Guiana:
  purchasing power parity - $6,000 (1998 est.)

French Polynesia:
  purchasing power parity - $10,800 (1997 est.)

Gabon:
  purchasing power parity - $6,300 (2000 est.)

Gambia, The:
  purchasing power parity - $1,100 (2000 est.)

Gaza Strip:
  purchasing power parity - $1,000 (2000 est.)

Georgia:
  purchasing power parity - $4,600 (2000 est.)

Germany:
  purchasing power parity - $23,400 (2000 est.)

Ghana:
  purchasing power parity - $1,900 (2000 est.)

Gibraltar:
  purchasing power parity - $17,500 (1997 est.)

Greece:
  purchasing power parity - $17,200 (2000 est.)

Greenland:
  purchasing power parity - $20,000 (2000 est.)

Grenada:
  purchasing power parity - $4,400 (2000 est.)

Guadeloupe:
  purchasing power parity - $9,000 (1997 est.)

Guam:
  purchasing power parity - $21,000 (2000 est.)

Guatemala:
  purchasing power parity - $3,700 (2000 est.)

Guernsey:
  purchasing power parity - $20,000 (1999 est.)

Guinea:
  purchasing power parity - $1,300 (2000 est.)

Guinea-Bissau:
  purchasing power parity - $850 (2000 est.)

Guyana:
  purchasing power parity - $4,800 (2000 est.)

Haiti:
  purchasing power parity - $1,800 (2000 est.)

Honduras:
  purchasing power parity - $2,700 (2000 est.)

Hong Kong:
  purchasing power parity - $25,400 (2000 est.)

Hungary:
  purchasing power parity - $11,200 (2000 est.)

Iceland:
  purchasing power parity - $24,800 (2000 est.)

India:
  purchasing power parity - $2,200 (2000 est.)

Indonesia:
  purchasing power parity - $2,900 (2000 est.)

Iran:
  purchasing power parity - $6,300 (2000 est.)

Iraq:
  purchasing power parity - $2,500 (2000 est.)

Ireland:
  purchasing power parity - $21,600 (2000 est.)

Israel:
  purchasing power parity - $18,900 (2000 est.)

Italy:
  purchasing power parity - $22,100 (2000 est.)

Jamaica:
  purchasing power parity - $3,700 (2000 est.)

Japan:
  purchasing power parity - $24,900 (2000 est.)

Jersey:
  purchasing power parity - $24,800 (1999 est.)

Jordan:
  purchasing power parity - $3,500 (2000 est.)

Kazakhstan:
  purchasing power parity - $5,000 (2000 est.)

Kenya:
  purchasing power parity - $1,500 (2000 est.)

Kiribati:
  purchasing power parity - $850 (2000 est.)

Korea, North:
  purchasing power parity - $1,000 (2000 est.)

Korea, South:
  purchasing power parity - $16,100 (2000 est.)

Kuwait:
  purchasing power parity - $15,000 (2000 est.)

Kyrgyzstan:
  purchasing power parity - $2,700 (2000 est.)

Laos:
  purchasing power parity - $1,700 (2000 est.)

Latvia:
  purchasing power parity - $7,200 (2000 est.)

Lebanon:
  purchasing power parity - $5,000 (2000 est.)

Lesotho:
  purchasing power parity - $2,400 (2000 est.)

Liberia:
  purchasing power parity - $1,100 (2000 est.)

Libya:
  purchasing power parity - $8,900 (2000 est.)

Liechtenstein:
  purchasing power parity - $23,000 (1998 est.)

Lithuania:
  purchasing power parity - $7,300 (2000 est.)

Luxembourg:
  purchasing power parity - $36,400 (2000 est.)

Macau:
  purchasing power parity - $17,500 (2000 est.)

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  purchasing power parity
  - $4,400 (2000 est.)

Madagascar:
  purchasing power parity - $800 (2000 est.)

Malawi:
  purchasing power parity - $900 (2000 est.)

Malaysia:
  purchasing power parity - $10,300 (2000 est.)

Maldives:
  purchasing power parity - $2,000 (2000 est.)

Mali:
  purchasing power parity - $850 (2000 est.)

Malta:
  purchasing power parity - $14,300 (2000 est.)

Man, Isle of:
  purchasing power parity - $18,800 (1999 est.)

Marshall Islands:
  purchasing power parity - $1,670 (1998 est.)

Martinique:
  purchasing power parity - $11,000 (1997 est.)

Mauritania:
  purchasing power parity - $2,000 (2000 est.)

Mauritius:
  purchasing power parity - $10,400 (2000 est.)

Mayotte:
  purchasing power parity - $600 (1998 est.)

Mexico:
  purchasing power parity - $9,100 (2000 est.)

Micronesia, Federated States of:
  purchasing power parity - $2,000
  (1999 est.)

Moldova:
  purchasing power parity - $2,500 (2000 est.)

Monaco:
  purchasing power parity - $27,000 (1999 est.)

Mongolia:
  purchasing power parity - $1,780 (2000 est.)

Montserrat:
  purchasing power parity - $5,000 (1999 est.)

Morocco:
  purchasing power parity - $3,500 (2000 est.)

Mozambique:
  purchasing power parity - $1,000 (2000 est.)

Namibia:
  purchasing power parity - $4,300 (2000 est.)

Nauru:
  purchasing power parity - $5,000 (2000 est.)

Nepal:
  purchasing power parity - $1,360 (2000 est.)

Netherlands:
  purchasing power parity - $24,400 (2000 est.)

Netherlands Antilles:
  purchasing power parity - $11,400 (2000 est.)

New Caledonia:
  purchasing power parity - $15,000 (1998 est.)

New Zealand:
  purchasing power parity - $17,700 (2000 est.)

Nicaragua:
  purchasing power parity - $2,700 (2000 est.)

Niger:
  purchasing power parity - $1,000 (2000 est.)

Nigeria:
  purchasing power parity - $950 (2000 est.)

Niue:
  purchasing power parity - $2,800 (1997 est.)

Norfolk Island:
  purchasing power parity - $NA

Northern Mariana Islands:
  purchasing power parity - $12,500 (2000
  est.)

Norway:
  purchasing power parity - $27,700 (2000 est.)

Oman:
  purchasing power parity - $7,700 (2000 est.)

Pakistan:
  purchasing power parity - $2,000 (2000 est.)

Palau:
  purchasing power parity - $7,100 (1998 est.)

Panama:
  purchasing power parity - $6,000 (2000 est.)

Papua New Guinea:
  purchasing power parity - $2,500 (2000 est.)

Paraguay:
  purchasing power parity - $4,750 (2000 est.)

Peru:
  purchasing power parity - $4,550 (2000 est.)

Philippines:
  purchasing power parity - $3,800 (2000 est.)

Pitcairn Islands:
  purchasing power parity - $NA

Poland:
  purchasing power parity - $8,500 (2000 est.)

Portugal:
  purchasing power parity - $15,800 (2000 est.)

Puerto Rico:
  purchasing power parity - $10,000 (2000 est.)

Qatar:
  purchasing power parity - $20,300 (2000 est.)

Reunion:
  purchasing power parity - $4,800 (1998 est.)

Romania:
  purchasing power parity - $5,900 (2000 est.)

Russia:
  purchasing power parity - $7,700 (2000 est.)

Rwanda:
  purchasing power parity - $900 (2000 est.)

Saint Helena:
  purchasing power parity - $2,500 (1998 est.)

Saint Kitts and Nevis:
  purchasing power parity - $7,000 (2000 est.)

Saint Lucia:
  purchasing power parity - $4,500 (2000 est.)

Saint Pierre and Miquelon:
  purchasing power parity - $11,000 (1996
  est.)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:
  purchasing power parity - $2,800
  (2000 est.)

Samoa:
  purchasing power parity - $3,200 (2000 est.)

San Marino:
  purchasing power parity - $32,000 (2000 est.)

Sao Tome and Principe:
  purchasing power parity - $1,100 (2000 est.)

Saudi Arabia:
  purchasing power parity - $10,500 (2000 est.)

Senegal:
  purchasing power parity - $1,600 (2000 est.)

Seychelles:
  purchasing power parity - $7,700 (2000 est.)

Sierra Leone:
  purchasing power parity - $510 (2000 est.)

Singapore:
  purchasing power parity - $26,500 (2000 est.)

Slovakia:
  purchasing power parity - $10,200 (2000 est.)

Slovenia:
  purchasing power parity - $12,000 (2000 est.)

Solomon Islands:
  purchasing power parity - $2,000 (2000 est.)

Somalia:
  purchasing power parity - $600 (2000 est.)

South Africa:
  purchasing power parity - $8,500 (2000 est.)

Spain:
  purchasing power parity - $18,000 (2000 est.)

Sri Lanka:
  purchasing power parity - $3,250 (2000 est.)

Sudan:
  purchasing power parity - $1,000 (2000 est.)

Suriname:
  purchasing power parity - $3,400 (1999 est.)

Svalbard:
  purchasing power parity - $NA

Swaziland:
  purchasing power parity - $4,000 (2000 est.)

Sweden:
  purchasing power parity - $22,200 (2000 est.)

Switzerland:
  purchasing power parity - $28,600 (2000 est.)

Syria:
  purchasing power parity - $3,100 (2000 est.)

Tajikistan:
  purchasing power parity - $1,140 (2000 est.)

Tanzania:
  purchasing power parity - $710 (2000 est.)

Thailand:
  purchasing power parity - $6,700 (2000 est.)

Togo:
  purchasing power parity - $1,500 (2000 est.)

Tokelau:
  purchasing power parity - $1,000 (1993 est.)

Tonga:
  purchasing power parity - $2,200 (2000 est.)

Trinidad and Tobago:
  purchasing power parity - $9,500 (2000 est.)

Tunisia:
  purchasing power parity - $6,500 (2000 est.)

Turkey:
  purchasing power parity - $6,800 (2000 est.)

Turkmenistan:
  purchasing power parity - $4,300 (2000 est.)

Turks and Caicos Islands:
  purchasing power parity - $7,300 (1999
  est.)

Tuvalu:
  purchasing power parity - $1,100 (1999 est.)

Uganda:
  purchasing power parity - $1,100 (2000 est.)

Ukraine:
  purchasing power parity - $3,850 (2000 est.)

United Arab Emirates:
  purchasing power parity - $22,800 (2000 est.)

United Kingdom:
  purchasing power parity - $22,800 (2000 est.)

United States:
  purchasing power parity - $36,200 (2000 est.)

Uruguay:
  purchasing power parity - $9,300 (2000 est.)

Uzbekistan:
  purchasing power parity - $2,400 (2000 est.)

Vanuatu:
  purchasing power parity - $1,300 (1999 est.)

Venezuela:
  purchasing power parity - $6,200 (2000 est.)

Vietnam:
  purchasing power parity - $1,950 (2000 est.)

Virgin Islands:
  purchasing power parity - $15,000 (2000 est.)

Wallis and Futuna:
  purchasing power parity - $2,000 (1997 est.)

West Bank:
  purchasing power parity - $1,500 (2000 est.)

Western Sahara:
  purchasing power parity - $NA

World:
  purchasing power parity - $7,200 (2000 est.)

Yemen:
  purchasing power parity - $820 (2000 est.)

Yugoslavia:
  purchasing power parity - $2,300 (2000 est.)

Zambia:
  purchasing power parity - $880 (2000 est.)

Zimbabwe:
  purchasing power parity - $2,500 (2000 est.)

Taiwan:
  purchasing power parity - $17,400 (2000 est.)

======================================================================

@GDP - real growth rate



Afghanistan:
  NA%

Albania:
  7.5% (2000 est.)

Algeria:
  5% (2000 est.)

American Samoa:
  NA%

Andorra:
  NA%

Angola:
  4.9% (2000 est.)

Anguilla:
  7% (1999 est.)

Antigua and Barbuda:
  4.6% (1999 est.)

Argentina:
  0.8% (2000 est.)

Armenia:
  5% (2000 est.)

Aruba:
  3.5% (2000 est.)

Australia:
  4.7% (2000 est.)

Austria:
  3.1% (2000 est.)

Azerbaijan:
  11.4% (2000 est.)

Bahamas, The:
  4.5% (2000 est.)

Bahrain:
  5% (2000 est.)

Bangladesh:
  5.3% (2000 est.)

Barbados:
  2.8% (2000 est.)

Belarus:
  4% (2000 est.)

Belgium:
  4.1% (2000 est.)

Belize:
  4% (2000 est.)

Benin:
  5% (2000 est.)

Bermuda:
  1.5% (2000 est.)

Bhutan:
  6% (2000 est.)

Bolivia:
  2.5% (2000 est.)

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  8% (2000 est.)

Botswana:
  6% (2000 est.)

Brazil:
  4.2% (2000 est.)

British Virgin Islands:
  6% (2000 est.)

Brunei:
  3% (2000 est.)

Bulgaria:
  5% (2000 est.)

Burkina Faso:
  5% (2000 est.)

Burma:
  4.9% (2000 est.)

Burundi:
  1.8% (2000 est.)

Cambodia:
  4% (2000 est.)

Cameroon:
  4.4% (2000 est.)

Canada:
  4.3% (2000 est.)

Cape Verde:
  6% (2000 est.)

Cayman Islands:
  4.9% (1999 est.)

Central African Republic:
  3.5% (2000 est.)

Chad:
  4% (2000 est.)

Chile:
  5.5% (2000 est.)

China:
  8% (2000 est.)

Christmas Island:
  NA%

Cocos (Keeling) Islands:
  NA%

Colombia:
  3% (2000 est.)

Comoros:
  0.5% (2000 est.)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  -15% (2000 est.)

Congo, Republic of the:
  3.8% (2000 est.)

Cook Islands:
  NA%

Costa Rica:
  3% (2000 est.)

Cote d'Ivoire:
  -0.3% (2000 est.)

Croatia:
  3.2% (2000 est.)

Cuba:
  5.6% (2000 est.)

Cyprus:
  Greek Cypriot area: 4.2% (2000 est.); Turkish Cypriot area:
  4.9% (1999 est.)

Czech Republic:
  2.5% (2000 est.)

Denmark:
  2.8% (2000 est.)

Djibouti:
  2% (2000 est.)

Dominica:
  0.5% (2000 est.)

Dominican Republic:
  8% (2000 est.)

Ecuador:
  0.8% (2000 est.)

Egypt:
  5% (2000 est.)

El Salvador:
  2.5% (2000 est.)

Equatorial Guinea:
  12% (2000 est.)

Eritrea:
  -1% (2000 est.)

Estonia:
  6.4% (2000 est.)

Ethiopia:
  2% (2000 est.)

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas):
  1% (FY95/96 est.)

Faroe Islands:
  5% (2000 est.)

Fiji:
  -8% (1999 est.)

Finland:
  5.6% (2000 est.)

France:
  3.1% (2000 est.)

French Guiana:
  NA%

French Polynesia:
  2.5% (1997 est.)

Gabon:
  1.2% (2000 est.)

Gambia, The:
  4.9% (2000 est.)

Gaza Strip:
  -7.5% (2000 est.)

Georgia:
  1.9% (2000 est.)

Germany:
  3% (2000 est.)

Ghana:
  3% (2000 est.)

Gibraltar:
  NA%

Greece:
  3.8% (2000 est.)

Greenland:
  NA%

Grenada:
  7% (2000 est.)

Guadeloupe:
  NA%

Guam:
  NA%

Guatemala:
  3% (2000 est.)

Guernsey:
  5.7% (1999 est.)

Guinea:
  5% (2000 est.)

Guinea-Bissau:
  7.6% (2000 est.)

Guyana:
  3% (2000 est.)

Haiti:
  1.2% (2000 est.)

Honduras:
  5% (2000 est.)

Hong Kong:
  10% (2000 est.)

Hungary:
  5.5% (2000 est.)

Iceland:
  4.3% (2000 est.)

India:
  6% (2000 est.)

Indonesia:
  4.8% (2000 est.)

Iran:
  3% (2000 est.)

Iraq:
  15% (2000 est.)

Ireland:
  9.9% (2000 est.)

Israel:
  5.9% (2000 est.)

Italy:
  2.7% (2000 est.)

Jamaica:
  0.2% (2000 est.)

Japan:
  1.3% (2000 est.)

Jersey:
  NA%

Jordan:
  2% (2000 est.)

Kazakhstan:
  10.5% (2000 est.)

Kenya:
  0.4% (2000 est.)

Kiribati:
  1% (2000 est.)

Korea, North:
  -3% (2000 est.)

Korea, South:
  9% (2000 est.)

Kuwait:
  6% (2000 est.)

Kyrgyzstan:
  5.7% (2000 est.)

Laos:
  4% (2000 est.)

Latvia:
  5.5% (2000 est.)

Lebanon:
  1% (2000 est.)

Lesotho:
  2.5% (2000 est.)

Liberia:
  15% (2000 est.)

Libya:
  6.5% (2000 est.)

Liechtenstein:
  NA%

Lithuania:
  2.9% (2000 est.)

Luxembourg:
  5.7% (2000 est.)

Macau:
  2% (2000 est.)

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  5% (2000 est.)

Madagascar:
  4.8% (2000 est.)

Malawi:
  3% (2000 est.)

Malaysia:
  8.6% (2000 est.)

Maldives:
  7.6% (2000 est.)

Mali:
  4.8% (2000 est.)

Malta:
  3.4% (2000 est.)

Man, Isle of:
  13.5% (1999 est.)

Marshall Islands:
  -5% (1998 est.)

Martinique:
  NA%

Mauritania:
  5% (2000 est.)

Mauritius:
  7.5% (2000 est.)

Mayotte:
  NA%

Mexico:
  7.1% (2000 est.)

Micronesia, Federated States of:
  0.3% (1999 est.)

Moldova:
  -1.5% (2000 est.)

Monaco:
  NA%

Mongolia:
  -1% (2000 est.)

Montserrat:
  -1.5% (1999 est.)

Morocco:
  0.8% (2000 est.)

Mozambique:
  3.8% (2000 est.)

Namibia:
  4% (2000 est.)

Nauru:
  NA%

Nepal:
  3.7% (2000 est.)

Netherlands:
  4% (2000 est.)

Netherlands Antilles:
  -3.5% (2000 est.)

New Caledonia:
  3.5% (1998 est.)

New Zealand:
  3.6% (2000 est.)

Nicaragua:
  5% (2000 est.)

Niger:
  3.5% (2000 est.)

Nigeria:
  3.5% (2000 est.)

Niue:
  NA%

Norfolk Island:
  NA%

Northern Mariana Islands:
  NA%

Norway:
  2.7% (2000 est.)

Oman:
  4.6% (2000 est.)

Pakistan:
  4.8% (2000 est.)

Palau:
  -1.4% (1998 est.)

Panama:
  2.5% (2000 est.)

Papua New Guinea:
  2.9% (2000 est.)

Paraguay:
  1% (2000 est.)

Peru:
  3.6% (2000 est.)

Philippines:
  3.6% (2000 est.)

Pitcairn Islands:
  NA%

Poland:
  4.8% (2000 est.)

Portugal:
  2.7% (2000 est.)

Puerto Rico:
  2.8% (2000 est.)

Qatar:
  4% (2000 est.)

Reunion:
  3.8% (1998 est.)

Romania:
  2.2% (2000 est.)

Russia:
  6.3% (2000 est.)

Rwanda:
  5.8% (2000 est.)

Saint Helena:
  NA%

Saint Kitts and Nevis:
  5% (2000 est.)

Saint Lucia:
  0.5% (2000 est.)

Saint Pierre and Miquelon:
  NA%

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:
  2% (2000 est.)

Samoa:
  6.8% (2000 est.)

San Marino:
  8% (2000 est.)

Sao Tome and Principe:
  3% (2000 est.)

Saudi Arabia:
  4% (2000 est.)

Senegal:
  5.7% (2000 est.)

Seychelles:
  1.5% (2000 est.)

Sierra Leone:
  4.2% (2000 est.)

Singapore:
  10.1% (2000 est.)

Slovakia:
  2.2% (2000 est.)

Slovenia:
  4.5% (2000 est.)

Solomon Islands:
  1% (2000 est.)

Somalia:
  NA%

South Africa:
  3% (2000 est.)

Spain:
  4% (2000 est.)

Sri Lanka:
  5.6% (2000 est.)

Sudan:
  7% (2000 est.)

Suriname:
  -1% (1999 est.)

Svalbard:
  NA%

Swaziland:
  2.4% (2000 est.)

Sweden:
  4.3% (2000 est.)

Switzerland:
  3% (2000 est.)

Syria:
  3.5% (2000 est.)

Tajikistan:
  5.1% (2000 est.)

Tanzania:
  5.2% (2000 est.)

Thailand:
  4.2% (2000 est.)

Togo:
  3.4% (2000 est.)

Tokelau:
  NA%

Tonga:
  5% (2000 est.)

Trinidad and Tobago:
  5% (2000 est.)

Tunisia:
  5% (2000 est.)

Turkey:
  6% (2000 est.)

Turkmenistan:
  16% (2000 est.)

Turks and Caicos Islands:
  8.7% (1999 est.)

Tuvalu:
  3% (1999 est.)

Uganda:
  6% (2000 est.)

Ukraine:
  6% (2000 est.)

United Arab Emirates:
  4% (2000 est.)

United Kingdom:
  3% (2000 est.)

United States:
  5% (2000 est.)

Uruguay:
  -1.1% (2000 est.)

Uzbekistan:
  2.1% (2000 est.)

Vanuatu:
  -2.5% (1999 est.)

Venezuela:
  3.2% (2000 est.)

Vietnam:
  5.5% (2000 est.)

Virgin Islands:
  NA%

Wallis and Futuna:
  NA%

West Bank:
  -7.5% (2000 est.)

Western Sahara:
  NA%

World:
  4.8% (2000 est.)

Yemen:
  6% (2000 est.)

Yugoslavia:
  15% (2000 est.)

Zambia:
  4% (2000 est.)

Zimbabwe:
  -6.1% (2000 est.)

Taiwan:
  6.3% (2000 est.)

======================================================================

@Geographic coordinates



Afghanistan:
  33 00 N, 65 00 E

Albania:
  41 00 N, 20 00 E

Algeria:
  28 00 N, 3 00 E

American Samoa:
  14 20 S, 170 00 W

Andorra:
  42 30 N, 1 30 E

Angola:
  12 30 S, 18 30 E

Anguilla:
  18 15 N, 63 10 W

Antarctica:
  90 00 S, 0 00 E

Antigua and Barbuda:
  17 03 N, 61 48 W

Arctic Ocean:
  90 00 N, 0 00 E

Argentina:
  34 00 S, 64 00 W

Armenia:
  40 00 N, 45 00 E

Aruba:
  12 30 N, 69 58 W

Ashmore and Cartier Islands:
  12 14 S, 123 05 E

Atlantic Ocean:
  0 00 N, 25 00 W

Australia:
  27 00 S, 133 00 E

Austria:
  47 20 N, 13 20 E

Azerbaijan:
  40 30 N, 47 30 E

Bahamas, The:
  24 15 N, 76 00 W

Bahrain:
  26 00 N, 50 33 E

Baker Island:
  0 13 N, 176 31 W

Bangladesh:
  24 00 N, 90 00 E

Barbados:
  13 10 N, 59 32 W

Bassas da India:
  21 30 S, 39 50 E

Belarus:
  53 00 N, 28 00 E

Belgium:
  50 50 N, 4 00 E

Belize:
  17 15 N, 88 45 W

Benin:
  9 30 N, 2 15 E

Bermuda:
  32 20 N, 64 45 W

Bhutan:
  27 30 N, 90 30 E

Bolivia:
  17 00 S, 65 00 W

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  44 00 N, 18 00 E

Botswana:
  22 00 S, 24 00 E

Bouvet Island:
  54 26 S, 3 24 E

Brazil:
  10 00 S, 55 00 W

British Indian Ocean Territory:
  6 00 S, 71 30 E

British Virgin Islands:
  18 30 N, 64 30 W

Brunei:
  4 30 N, 114 40 E

Bulgaria:
  43 00 N, 25 00 E

Burkina Faso:
  13 00 N, 2 00 W

Burma:
  22 00 N, 98 00 E

Burundi:
  3 30 S, 30 00 E

Cambodia:
  13 00 N, 105 00 E

Cameroon:
  6 00 N, 12 00 E

Canada:
  60 00 N, 95 00 W

Cape Verde:
  16 00 N, 24 00 W

Cayman Islands:
  19 30 N, 80 30 W

Central African Republic:
  7 00 N, 21 00 E

Chad:
  15 00 N, 19 00 E

Chile:
  30 00 S, 71 00 W

China:
  35 00 N, 105 00 E

Christmas Island:
  10 30 S, 105 40 E

Clipperton Island:
  10 17 N, 109 13 W

Cocos (Keeling) Islands:
  12 30 S, 96 50 E

Colombia:
  4 00 N, 72 00 W

Comoros:
  12 10 S, 44 15 E

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  0 00 N, 25 00 E

Congo, Republic of the:
  1 00 S, 15 00 E

Cook Islands:
  21 14 S, 159 46 W

Coral Sea Islands:
  18 00 S, 152 00 E

Costa Rica:
  10 00 N, 84 00 W

Cote d'Ivoire:
  8 00 N, 5 00 W

Croatia:
  45 10 N, 15 30 E

Cuba:
  21 30 N, 80 00 W

Cyprus:
  35 00 N, 33 00 E

Czech Republic:
  49 45 N, 15 30 E

Denmark:
  56 00 N, 10 00 E

Djibouti:
  11 30 N, 43 00 E

Dominica:
  15 25 N, 61 20 W

Dominican Republic:
  19 00 N, 70 40 W

Ecuador:
  2 00 S, 77 30 W

Egypt:
  27 00 N, 30 00 E

El Salvador:
  13 50 N, 88 55 W

Equatorial Guinea:
  2 00 N, 10 00 E

Eritrea:
  15 00 N, 39 00 E

Estonia:
  59 00 N, 26 00 E

Ethiopia:
  8 00 N, 38 00 E

Europa Island:
  22 20 S, 40 22 E

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas):
  51 45 S, 59 00 W

Faroe Islands:
  62 00 N, 7 00 W

Fiji:
  18 00 S, 175 00 E

Finland:
  64 00 N, 26 00 E

France:
  46 00 N, 2 00 E

French Guiana:
  4 00 N, 53 00 W

French Polynesia:
  15 00 S, 140 00 W

French Southern and Antarctic Lands:
  43 00 S, 67 00 E

Gabon:
  1 00 S, 11 45 E

Gambia, The:
  13 28 N, 16 34 W

Gaza Strip:
  31 25 N, 34 20 E

Georgia:
  42 00 N, 43 30 E

Germany:
  51 00 N, 9 00 E

Ghana:
  8 00 N, 2 00 W

Gibraltar:
  36 11 N, 5 22 W

Glorioso Islands:
  11 30 S, 47 20 E

Greece:
  39 00 N, 22 00 E

Greenland:
  72 00 N, 40 00 W

Grenada:
  12 07 N, 61 40 W

Guadeloupe:
  16 15 N, 61 35 W

Guam:
  13 28 N, 144 47 E

Guatemala:
  15 30 N, 90 15 W

Guernsey:
  49 28 N, 2 35 W

Guinea:
  11 00 N, 10 00 W

Guinea-Bissau:
  12 00 N, 15 00 W

Guyana:
  5 00 N, 59 00 W

Haiti:
  19 00 N, 72 25 W

Heard Island and McDonald Islands:
  53 06 S, 72 31 E

Holy See (Vatican City):
  41 54 N, 12 27 E

Honduras:
  15 00 N, 86 30 W

Hong Kong:
  22 15 N, 114 10 E

Howland Island:
  0 48 N, 176 38 W

Hungary:
  47 00 N, 20 00 E

Iceland:
  65 00 N, 18 00 W

India:
  20 00 N, 77 00 E

Indian Ocean:
  20 00 S, 80 00 E

Indonesia:
  5 00 S, 120 00 E

Iran:
  32 00 N, 53 00 E

Iraq:
  33 00 N, 44 00 E

Ireland:
  53 00 N, 8 00 W

Israel:
  31 30 N, 34 45 E

Italy:
  42 50 N, 12 50 E

Jamaica:
  18 15 N, 77 30 W

Jan Mayen:
  71 00 N, 8 00 W

Japan:
  36 00 N, 138 00 E

Jarvis Island:
  0 22 S, 160 03 W

Jersey:
  49 15 N, 2 10 W

Johnston Atoll:
  16 45 N, 169 31 W

Jordan:
  31 00 N, 36 00 E

Juan de Nova Island:
  17 03 S, 42 45 E

Kazakhstan:
  48 00 N, 68 00 E

Kenya:
  1 00 N, 38 00 E

Kingman Reef:
  6 24 N, 162 24 W

Kiribati:
  1 25 N, 173 00 E

Korea, North:
  40 00 N, 127 00 E

Korea, South:
  37 00 N, 127 30 E

Kuwait:
  29 30 N, 45 45 E

Kyrgyzstan:
  41 00 N, 75 00 E

Laos:
  18 00 N, 105 00 E

Latvia:
  57 00 N, 25 00 E

Lebanon:
  33 50 N, 35 50 E

Lesotho:
  29 30 S, 28 30 E

Liberia:
  6 30 N, 9 30 W

Libya:
  25 00 N, 17 00 E

Liechtenstein:
  47 10 N, 9 32 E

Lithuania:
  56 00 N, 24 00 E

Luxembourg:
  49 45 N, 6 10 E

Macau:
  22 10 N, 113 33 E

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  41 50 N, 22 00 E

Madagascar:
  20 00 S, 47 00 E

Malawi:
  13 30 S, 34 00 E

Malaysia:
  2 30 N, 112 30 E

Maldives:
  3 15 N, 73 00 E

Mali:
  17 00 N, 4 00 W

Malta:
  35 50 N, 14 35 E

Man, Isle of:
  54 15 N, 4 30 W

Marshall Islands:
  9 00 N, 168 00 E

Martinique:
  14 40 N, 61 00 W

Mauritania:
  20 00 N, 12 00 W

Mauritius:
  20 17 S, 57 33 E

Mayotte:
  12 50 S, 45 10 E

Mexico:
  23 00 N, 102 00 W

Micronesia, Federated States of:
  6 55 N, 158 15 E

Midway Islands:
  28 13 N, 177 22 W

Moldova:
  47 00 N, 29 00 E

Monaco:
  43 44 N, 7 24 E

Mongolia:
  46 00 N, 105 00 E

Montserrat:
  16 45 N, 62 12 W

Morocco:
  32 00 N, 5 00 W

Mozambique:
  18 15 S, 35 00 E

Namibia:
  22 00 S, 17 00 E

Nauru:
  0 32 S, 166 55 E

Navassa Island:
  18 25 N, 75 02 W

Nepal:
  28 00 N, 84 00 E

Netherlands:
  52 30 N, 5 45 E

Netherlands Antilles:
  12 15 N, 68 45 W

New Caledonia:
  21 30 S, 165 30 E

New Zealand:
  41 00 S, 174 00 E

Nicaragua:
  13 00 N, 85 00 W

Niger:
  16 00 N, 8 00 E

Nigeria:
  10 00 N, 8 00 E

Niue:
  19 02 S, 169 52 W

Norfolk Island:
  29 02 S, 167 57 E

Northern Mariana Islands:
  15 12 N, 145 45 E

Norway:
  62 00 N, 10 00 E

Oman:
  21 00 N, 57 00 E

Pacific Ocean:
  0 00 N, 160 00 W

Pakistan:
  30 00 N, 70 00 E

Palau:
  7 30 N, 134 30 E

Palmyra Atoll:
  5 52 N, 162 06 W

Panama:
  9 00 N, 80 00 W

Papua New Guinea:
  6 00 S, 147 00 E

Paracel Islands:
  16 30 N, 112 00 E

Paraguay:
  23 00 S, 58 00 W

Peru:
  10 00 S, 76 00 W

Philippines:
  13 00 N, 122 00 E

Pitcairn Islands:
  25 04 S, 130 06 W

Poland:
  52 00 N, 20 00 E

Portugal:
  39 30 N, 8 00 W

Puerto Rico:
  18 15 N, 66 30 W

Qatar:
  25 30 N, 51 15 E

Reunion:
  21 06 S, 55 36 E

Romania:
  46 00 N, 25 00 E

Russia:
  60 00 N, 100 00 E

Rwanda:
  2 00 S, 30 00 E

Saint Helena:
  15 56 S, 5 42 W

Saint Kitts and Nevis:
  17 20 N, 62 45 W

Saint Lucia:
  13 53 N, 60 68 W

Saint Pierre and Miquelon:
  46 50 N, 56 20 W

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:
  13 15 N, 61 12 W

Samoa:
  13 35 S, 172 20 W

San Marino:
  43 46 N, 12 25 E

Sao Tome and Principe:
  1 00 N, 7 00 E

Saudi Arabia:
  25 00 N, 45 00 E

Senegal:
  14 00 N, 14 00 W

Seychelles:
  4 35 S, 55 40 E

Sierra Leone:
  8 30 N, 11 30 W

Singapore:
  1 22 N, 103 48 E

Slovakia:
  48 40 N, 19 30 E

Slovenia:
  46 00 N, 15 00 E

Solomon Islands:
  8 00 S, 159 00 E

Somalia:
  10 00 N, 49 00 E

South Africa:
  29 00 S, 24 00 E

South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands:
  54 30 S, 37 00 W

Southern Ocean:
  65 00 S, 0 00 E (nominally), but the Southern Ocean
  has the unique distinction of being a large circumpolar body of
  water totally encircling the continent of Antarctica; this ring of
  water lies between 60 degrees south latitude and the coast of
  Antarctica, and encompasses 360 degrees of longitude

Spain:
  40 00 N, 4 00 W

Spratly Islands:
  8 38 N, 111 55 E

Sri Lanka:
  7 00 N, 81 00 E

Sudan:
  15 00 N, 30 00 E

Suriname:
  4 00 N, 56 00 W

Svalbard:
  78 00 N, 20 00 E

Swaziland:
  26 30 S, 31 30 E

Sweden:
  62 00 N, 15 00 E

Switzerland:
  47 00 N, 8 00 E

Syria:
  35 00 N, 38 00 E

Tajikistan:
  39 00 N, 71 00 E

Tanzania:
  6 00 S, 35 00 E

Thailand:
  15 00 N, 100 00 E

Togo:
  8 00 N, 1 10 E

Tokelau:
  9 00 S, 172 00 W

Tonga:
  20 00 S, 175 00 W

Trinidad and Tobago:
  11 00 N, 61 00 W

Tromelin Island:
  15 52 S, 54 25 E

Tunisia:
  34 00 N, 9 00 E

Turkey:
  39 00 N, 35 00 E

Turkmenistan:
  40 00 N, 60 00 E

Turks and Caicos Islands:
  21 45 N, 71 35 W

Tuvalu:
  8 00 S, 178 00 E

Uganda:
  1 00 N, 32 00 E

Ukraine:
  49 00 N, 32 00 E

United Arab Emirates:
  24 00 N, 54 00 E

United Kingdom:
  54 00 N, 2 00 W

United States:
  38 00 N, 97 00 W

Uruguay:
  33 00 S, 56 00 W

Uzbekistan:
  41 00 N, 64 00 E

Vanuatu:
  16 00 S, 167 00 E

Venezuela:
  8 00 N, 66 00 W

Vietnam:
  16 00 N, 106 00 E

Virgin Islands:
  18 20 N, 64 50 W

Wake Island:
  19 17 N, 166 36 E

Wallis and Futuna:
  13 18 S, 176 12 W

West Bank:
  32 00 N, 35 15 E

Western Sahara:
  24 30 N, 13 00 W

Yemen:
  15 00 N, 48 00 E

Yugoslavia:
  44 00 N, 21 00 E

Zambia:
  15 00 S, 30 00 E

Zimbabwe:
  20 00 S, 30 00 E

Taiwan:
  23 30 N, 121 00 E

======================================================================

@Geography - note



Afghanistan:
  landlocked

Albania:
  strategic location along Strait of Otranto (links Adriatic
  Sea to Ionian Sea and Mediterranean Sea)

Algeria:
  second-largest country in Africa (after Sudan)

American Samoa:
  Pago Pago has one of the best natural deepwater
  harbors in the South Pacific Ocean, sheltered by shape from rough
  seas and protected by peripheral mountains from high winds;
  strategic location in the South Pacific Ocean

Andorra:
  landlocked

Angola:
  Cabinda is separated from rest of country by the Democratic
  Republic of the Congo

Antarctica:
  the coldest, windiest, highest (on average), and driest
  continent; during summer, more solar radiation reaches the surface
  at the South Pole than is received at the Equator in an equivalent
  period; mostly uninhabitable

Arctic Ocean:
  major chokepoint is the southern Chukchi Sea (northern
  access to the Pacific Ocean via the Bering Strait); strategic
  location between North America and Russia; shortest marine link
  between the extremes of eastern and western Russia; floating
  research stations operated by the US and Russia; maximum snow cover
  in March or April about 20 to 50 centimeters over the frozen ocean;
  snow cover lasts about 10 months

Argentina:
  second-largest country in South America (after Brazil);
  strategic location relative to sea lanes between South Atlantic and
  South Pacific Oceans (Strait of Magellan, Beagle Channel, Drake
  Passage)

Armenia:
  landlocked

Ashmore and Cartier Islands:
  Ashmore Reef National Nature Reserve
  established in August 1983

Atlantic Ocean:
  major chokepoints include the Dardanelles, Strait of
  Gibraltar, access to the Panama and Suez Canals; strategic straits
  include the Strait of Dover, Straits of Florida, Mona Passage, The
  Sound (Oresund), and Windward Passage; the Equator divides the
  Atlantic Ocean into the North Atlantic Ocean and South Atlantic Ocean

Australia:
  world's smallest continent but sixth-largest country;
  population concentrated along the eastern and southeastern coasts;
  regular, tropical, invigorating, sea breeze known as "the Doctor"
  occurs along the west coast in the summer

Austria:
  landlocked; strategic location at the crossroads of central
  Europe with many easily traversable Alpine passes and valleys; major
  river is the Danube; population is concentrated on eastern lowlands
  because of steep slopes, poor soils, and low temperatures elsewhere

Azerbaijan:
  landlocked

Bahamas, The:
  strategic location adjacent to US and Cuba; extensive
  island chain

Bahrain:
  close to primary Middle Eastern petroleum sources;
  strategic location in Persian Gulf which much of Western world's
  petroleum must transit to reach open ocean

Baker Island:
  treeless, sparse, and scattered vegetation consisting
  of grasses, prostrate vines, and low growing shrubs; primarily a
  nesting, roosting, and foraging habitat for seabirds, shorebirds,
  and marine wildlife

Barbados:
  easternmost Caribbean island

Belarus:
  landlocked

Belgium:
  crossroads of Western Europe; majority of West European
  capitals within 1,000 km of Brussels which is the seat of both the
  EU and NATO

Belize:
  only country in Central America without a coastline on the
  North Pacific Ocean

Benin:
  no natural harbors

Bermuda:
  consists of about 360 small coral islands with ample
  rainfall, but no rivers or freshwater lakes; some land, reclaimed
  and otherwise, was leased by US Government from 1941 to 1995

Bhutan:
  landlocked; strategic location between China and India;
  controls several key Himalayan mountain passes

Bolivia:
  landlocked; shares control of Lago Titicaca, world's
  highest navigable lake (elevation 3,805 m), with Peru

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  within Bosnia and Herzegovina's recognized
  borders, the country is divided into a joint Bosniak/Croat
  Federation (about 51% of the territory) and the Bosnian Serb-led
  Republika Srpska or RS (about 49% of the territory); the region
  called Herzegovina is contiguous to Croatia and traditionally has
  been settled by an ethnic Croat majority

Botswana:
  landlocked; population concentrated in eastern part of the
  country

Bouvet Island:
  covered by glacial ice; declared a nature reserve

Brazil:
  largest country in South America; shares common boundaries
  with every South American country except Chile and Ecuador

British Indian Ocean Territory:
  archipelago of 2,300 islands; Diego
  Garcia, largest and southernmost island, occupies strategic location
  in central Indian Ocean; island is site of joint US-UK military
  facility

British Virgin Islands:
  strong ties to nearby US Virgin Islands and
  Puerto Rico

Brunei:
  close to vital sea lanes through South China Sea linking
  Indian and Pacific Oceans; two parts physically separated by
  Malaysia; almost an enclave of Malaysia

Bulgaria:
  strategic location near Turkish Straits; controls key land
  routes from Europe to Middle East and Asia

Burkina Faso:
  landlocked

Burma:
  strategic location near major Indian Ocean shipping lanes

Burundi:
  landlocked; straddles crest of the Nile-Congo watershed

Cambodia:
  a land of paddies and forests dominated by the Mekong
  River and Tonle Sap

Cameroon:
  sometimes referred to as the hinge of Africa

Canada:
  second-largest country in world (after Russia); strategic
  location between Russia and US via north polar route; approximately
  85% of the population is concentrated within 300 km of the US/Canada
  border

Cape Verde:
  strategic location 500 km from west coast of Africa near
  major north-south sea routes; important communications station;
  important sea and air refueling site

Cayman Islands:
  important location between Cuba and Central America

Central African Republic:
  landlocked; almost the precise center of
  Africa

Chad:
  landlocked; Lake Chad is the most significant water body in
  the Sahel

Chile:
  strategic location relative to sea lanes between Atlantic and
  Pacific Oceans (Strait of Magellan, Beagle Channel, Drake Passage);
  Atacama Desert is one of world's driest regions

China:
  world's fourth-largest country (after Russia, Canada, and US)

Christmas Island:
  located along major sea lanes of Indian Ocean

Clipperton Island:
  reef about 8 km in circumference

Cocos (Keeling) Islands:
  two coral atolls thickly covered with
  coconut palms and other vegetation

Colombia:
  only South American country with coastlines on both North
  Pacific Ocean and Caribbean Sea

Comoros:
  important location at northern end of Mozambique Channel

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  straddles Equator; very narrow
  strip of land that controls the lower Congo river and is only outlet
  to South Atlantic Ocean; dense tropical rain forest in central river
  basin and eastern highlands

Congo, Republic of the:
  about 70% of the population lives in
  Brazzaville, Pointe-Noire, or along the railroad between them

Coral Sea Islands:
  important nesting area for birds and turtles

Croatia:
  controls most land routes from Western Europe to Aegean Sea
  and Turkish Straits

Cuba:
  largest country in Caribbean

Czech Republic:
  landlocked; strategically located astride some of
  oldest and most significant land routes in Europe; Moravian Gate is
  a traditional military corridor between the North European Plain and
  the Danube in central Europe

Denmark:
  controls Danish Straits (Skagerrak and Kattegat) linking
  Baltic and North Seas; about one-quarter of the population lives in
  greater Copenhagen

Djibouti:
  strategic location near world's busiest shipping lanes and
  close to Arabian oilfields; terminus of rail traffic into Ethiopia;
  mostly wasteland

Dominican Republic:
  shares island of Hispaniola with Haiti (eastern
  two-thirds is the Dominican Republic, western one-third is Haiti)

Ecuador:
  Cotopaxi in Andes is highest active volcano in world

Egypt:
  controls Sinai Peninsula, only land bridge between Africa and
  remainder of Eastern Hemisphere; controls Suez Canal, shortest sea
  link between Indian Ocean and Mediterranean Sea; size, and
  juxtaposition to Israel, establish its major role in Middle Eastern
  geopolitics; dependence on upstream neighbors; dominance of Nile
  basin issues; prone to influxes of refugees

El Salvador:
  smallest Central American country and only one without
  a coastline on Caribbean Sea

Equatorial Guinea:
  insular and continental regions rather widely
  separated

Eritrea:
  strategic geopolitical position along world's busiest
  shipping lanes; Eritrea retained the entire coastline of Ethiopia
  along the Red Sea upon de jure independence from Ethiopia on 24 May
  1993

Ethiopia:
  landlocked - entire coastline along the Red Sea was lost
  with the de jure independence of Eritrea on 24 May 1993

Europa Island:
  wildlife sanctuary

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas):
  deeply indented coast provides
  good natural harbors; short growing season

Faroe Islands:
  archipelago of 17 inhabited islands and one
  uninhabited island, and a few uninhabited islets; strategically
  located along important sea lanes in northeastern Atlantic;
  precipitous terrain limits habitation to small coastal lowlands

Fiji:
  includes 332 islands of which approximately 110 are inhabited

Finland:
  long boundary with Russia; Helsinki is northernmost
  national capital on European continent; population concentrated on
  small southwestern coastal plain

France:
  largest West European nation

French Guiana:
  mostly an unsettled wilderness

French Polynesia:
  includes five archipelagoes; Makatea in French
  Polynesia is one of the three great phosphate rock islands in the
  Pacific Ocean - the others are Banaba (Ocean Island) in Kiribati and
  Nauru

French Southern and Antarctic Lands:
  islands component is widely
  scattered across remote locations in the southern Indian Ocean

Gambia, The:
  almost an enclave of Senegal; smallest country on the
  continent of Africa

Gaza Strip:
  there are 25 Israeli settlements and civilian land use
  sites in the Gaza Strip (August 2000 est.)

Germany:
  strategic location on North European Plain and along the
  entrance to the Baltic Sea

Ghana:
  Lake Volta is the world's largest artificial lake;
  northeasterly harmattan wind (January to March)

Gibraltar:
  strategic location on Strait of Gibraltar that links the
  North Atlantic Ocean and Mediterranean Sea

Greece:
  strategic location dominating the Aegean Sea and southern
  approach to Turkish Straits; a peninsular country, possessing an
  archipelago of about 2,000 islands

Greenland:
  dominates North Atlantic Ocean between North America and
  Europe; sparse population confined to small settlements along coast,
  but close to one-quarter of the population lives in the capital,
  Nuuk; world's second largest ice cap

Grenada:
  the administration of the islands of the Grenadines group
  is divided between Saint Vincent and the Grenadines and Grenada

Guam:
  largest and southernmost island in the Mariana Islands
  archipelago; strategic location in western North Pacific Ocean

Guatemala:
  no natural harbors on west coast

Guernsey:
  large, deepwater harbor at Saint Peter Port

Haiti:
  shares island of Hispaniola with Dominican Republic (western
  one-third is Haiti, eastern two-thirds is the Dominican Republic)

Heard Island and McDonald Islands:
  primarily used for research
  stations

Holy See (Vatican City):
  urban; landlocked; enclave of Rome, Italy;
  world's smallest state; outside the Vatican City, 13 buildings in
  Rome and Castel Gandolfo (the pope's summer residence) enjoy
  extraterritorial rights

Hong Kong:
  more than 200 islands

Howland Island:
  almost totally covered with grasses, prostrate
  vines, and low-growing shrubs; small area of trees in the center;
  primarily a nesting, roosting, and foraging habitat for seabirds,
  shorebirds, and marine wildlife

Hungary:
  landlocked; strategic location astride main land routes
  between Western Europe and Balkan Peninsula as well as between
  Ukraine and Mediterranean basin

Iceland:
  strategic location between Greenland and Europe;
  westernmost European country; Reykjavik is the northernmost national
  capital in the world; more land covered by glaciers than in all of
  continental Europe

India:
  dominates South Asian subcontinent; near important Indian
  Ocean trade routes

Indian Ocean:
  major chokepoints include Bab el Mandeb, Strait of
  Hormuz, Strait of Malacca, southern access to the Suez Canal, and
  the Lombok Strait

Indonesia:
  archipelago of 17,000 islands (6,000 inhabited);
  straddles Equator; strategic location astride or along major sea
  lanes from Indian Ocean to Pacific Ocean

Ireland:
  strategic location on major air and sea routes between
  North America and northern Europe; over 40% of the population
  resides within 97 km of Dublin

Israel:
  there are 231 Israeli settlements and civilian land use
  sites in the West Bank, 42 in the Israeli-occupied Golan Heights, 25
  in the Gaza Strip, and 29 in East Jerusalem (August 2000 est.)

Italy:
  strategic location dominating central Mediterranean as well
  as southern sea and air approaches to Western Europe

Jamaica:
  strategic location between Cayman Trench and Jamaica
  Channel, the main sea lanes for Panama Canal

Jan Mayen:
  barren volcanic island with some moss and grass

Japan:
  strategic location in northeast Asia

Jarvis Island:
  sparse bunch grass, prostrate vines, and low-growing
  shrubs; primarily a nesting, roosting, and foraging habitat for
  seabirds, shorebirds, and marine wildlife

Jersey:
  largest and southernmost of Channel Islands; about 30% of
  population concentrated in Saint Helier

Johnston Atoll:
  strategic location in the North Pacific Ocean;
  Johnston Island and Sand Island are natural islands, which have been
  expanded by coral dredging; North Island (Akau) and East Island
  (Hikina) are manmade islands formed from coral dredging; egg-shaped
  reef is 34 km in circumference; closed to the public; former US
  nuclear weapons test site; site of Johnston Atoll Chemical Agent
  Disposal System (JACADS); some low-growing vegetation

Juan de Nova Island:
  wildlife sanctuary

Kazakhstan:
  landlocked; Russia leases approximately 6,000 sq km of
  territory enclosing the Baykonur Cosmodrome

Kenya:
  the Kenyan Highlands comprise one of the most successful
  agricultural production regions in Africa; glaciers on Mt. Kenya;
  unique physiography supports abundant and varied wildlife of
  scientific and economic value

Kingman Reef:
  barren coral atoll with deep interior lagoon; closed
  to the public

Kiribati:
  20 of the 33 islands are inhabited; Banaba (Ocean Island)
  in Kiribati is one of the three great phosphate rock islands in the
  Pacific Ocean - the others are Makatea in French Polynesia, and Nauru

Korea, North:
  strategic location bordering China, South Korea, and
  Russia; mountainous interior is isolated and sparsely populated

Kuwait:
  strategic location at head of Persian Gulf

Kyrgyzstan:
  landlocked

Laos:
  landlocked

Lebanon:
  Nahr al Litani only major river in Near East not crossing
  an international boundary; rugged terrain historically helped
  isolate, protect, and develop numerous factional groups based on
  religion, clan, and ethnicity

Lesotho:
  landlocked; surrounded by South Africa

Liechtenstein:
  along with Uzbekistan, one of only two doubly
  landlocked countries in the world; variety of microclimatic
  variations based on elevation

Luxembourg:
  landlocked

Macau:
  essentially urban; one causeway and two bridges connect the
  two islands of Coloane and Taipa to the peninsula on mainland

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  landlocked; major
  transportation corridor from Western and Central Europe to Aegean
  Sea and Southern Europe to Western Europe

Madagascar:
  world's fourth-largest island; strategic location along
  Mozambique Channel

Malawi:
  landlocked

Malaysia:
  strategic location along Strait of Malacca and southern
  South China Sea

Maldives:
  1,190 coral islands grouped into 26 atolls (200 inhabited
  islands, plus 80 islands with tourist resorts); archipelago of
  strategic location astride and along major sea lanes in Indian Ocean

Mali:
  landlocked

Malta:
  the country comprises an archipelago, with only the three
  largest islands (Malta, Ghawdex or Gozo, and Kemmuna or Comino)
  being inhabited; numerous bays provide good harbors; Malta and
  Tunisia are discussing the commercial exploitation of the
  continental shelf between their countries, particularly for oil
  exploration

Man, Isle of:
  one small islet, the Calf of Man, lies to the
  southwest, and is a bird sanctuary

Marshall Islands:
  two archipelagic island chains of 30 atolls and
  1,152 islands; Bikini and Enewetak are former US nuclear test sites;
  Kwajalein, the famous World War II battleground, is now used as a US
  missile test range

Mauritania:
  most of the population concentrated in the cities of
  Nouakchott and Nouadhibou and along the Senegal River in the
  southern part of the country

Mayotte:
  part of Comoro Archipelago; 18 islands

Mexico:
  strategic location on southern border of US

Micronesia, Federated States of:
  four major island groups totaling
  607 islands

Midway Islands:
  a coral atoll managed as a national wildlife refuge
  and open to the public for wildlife-related recreation in the form
  of wildlife observation and photography, sport fishing, snorkeling,
  and scuba diving

Moldova:
  landlocked

Monaco:
  second smallest independent state in the world (after Holy
  See); almost entirely urban

Mongolia:
  landlocked; strategic location between China and Russia

Morocco:
  strategic location along Strait of Gibraltar

Nauru:
  Nauru is one of the three great phosphate rock islands in the
  Pacific Ocean - the others are Banaba (Ocean Island) in Kiribati and
  Makatea in French Polynesia; only 53 km south of Equator

Navassa Island:
  strategic location 160 km south of the US Naval Base
  at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba; mostly exposed rock, but enough grassland
  to support goat herds; dense stands of fig-like trees, scattered
  cactus

Nepal:
  landlocked; strategic location between China and India;
  contains eight of world's 10 highest peaks

Netherlands:
  located at mouths of three major European rivers
  (Rhine, Maas or Meuse, and Schelde)

New Zealand:
  about 80% of the population lives in cities; Wellington
  is the southernmost national capital in the world

Niger:
  landlocked

Niue:
  one of world's largest coral islands

Northern Mariana Islands:
  strategic location in the North Pacific
  Ocean

Norway:
  about two-thirds mountains; some 50,000 islands off its much
  indented coastline; strategic location adjacent to sea lanes and air
  routes in North Atlantic; one of most rugged and longest coastlines
  in world; Norway is the only NATO member having a land boundary with
  Russia

Oman:
  strategic location on Musandam Peninsula adjacent to Strait of
  Hormuz, a vital transit point for world crude oil

Pacific Ocean:
  the major chokepoints are the Bering Strait, Panama
  Canal, Luzon Strait, and the Singapore Strait; the Equator divides
  the Pacific Ocean into the North Pacific Ocean and the South Pacific
  Ocean; dotted with low coral islands and rugged volcanic islands in
  the southwestern Pacific Ocean

Pakistan:
  controls Khyber Pass and Bolan Pass, traditional invasion
  routes between Central Asia and the Indian Subcontinent

Palau:
  includes World War II battleground of Beliliou (Peleliu) and
  world-famous rock islands; archipelago of six island groups totaling
  over 200 islands in the Caroline chain

Palmyra Atoll:
  about 50 islets covered with dense vegetation,
  coconut trees, and balsa-like trees up to 30 meters tall

Panama:
  strategic location on eastern end of isthmus forming land
  bridge connecting North and South America; controls Panama Canal
  that links North Atlantic Ocean via Caribbean Sea with North Pacific
  Ocean

Papua New Guinea:
  shares island of New Guinea with Indonesia; one of
  world's largest swamps along southwest coast

Paraguay:
  landlocked; lies between Argentina, Bolivia, and Brazil

Peru:
  shares control of Lago Titicaca, world's highest navigable
  lake, with Bolivia

Poland:
  historically, an area of conflict because of flat terrain
  and the lack of natural barriers on the North European Plain

Portugal:
  Azores and Madeira Islands occupy strategic locations
  along western sea approaches to Strait of Gibraltar

Puerto Rico:
  important location along the Mona Passage - a key
  shipping lane to the Panama Canal; San Juan is one of the biggest
  and best natural harbors in the Caribbean; many small rivers and
  high central mountains ensure land is well watered; south coast
  relatively dry; fertile coastal plain belt in north

Qatar:
  strategic location in central Persian Gulf near major
  petroleum deposits

Romania:
  controls most easily traversable land route between the
  Balkans, Moldova, and Ukraine

Russia:
  largest country in the world in terms of area but
  unfavorably located in relation to major sea lanes of the world;
  despite its size, much of the country lacks proper soils and
  climates (either too cold or too dry) for agriculture

Rwanda:
  landlocked; predominantly rural population

Saint Helena:
  harbors at least 40 species of plants unknown anywhere
  else in the world; Ascension is a breeding ground for sea turtles
  and sooty terns

Saint Pierre and Miquelon:
  vegetation scanty

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:
  the administration of the islands
  of the Grenadines group is divided between Saint Vincent and the
  Grenadines and Grenada

San Marino:
  landlocked; smallest independent state in Europe after
  the Holy See and Monaco; dominated by the Apennines

Saudi Arabia:
  extensive coastlines on Persian Gulf and Red Sea
  provide great leverage on shipping (especially crude oil) through
  Persian Gulf and Suez Canal

Senegal:
  The Gambia is almost an enclave of Senegal

Seychelles:
  40 granitic and about 50 coralline islands

Singapore:
  focal point for Southeast Asian sea routes

Slovakia:
  landlocked

Somalia:
  strategic location on Horn of Africa along southern
  approaches to Bab el Mandeb and route through Red Sea and Suez Canal

South Africa:
  South Africa completely surrounds Lesotho and almost
  completely surrounds Swaziland

South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands:
  the north coast of
  South Georgia has several large bays, which provide good anchorage;
  reindeer, introduced early in this century, live on South Georgia

Southern Ocean:
  the major chokepoint is the Drake Passage between
  South America and Antarctica; the Polar Front (Antarctic
  Convergence) is the best natural definition of the northern extent
  of the Southern Ocean; it is a distinct region at the middle of the
  Antarctic Circumpolar Current that separates the very cold polar
  surface waters to the south from the warmer waters to the north; the
  Front and the Current extend entirely around Antarctica, reaching
  south of 60 degrees south near New Zealand and near 48 degrees south
  in the far South Atlantic coinciding with the path of the maximum
  westerly winds

Spain:
  strategic location along approaches to Strait of Gibraltar

Spratly Islands:
  strategically located near several primary shipping
  lanes in the central South China Sea; includes numerous small
  islands, atolls, shoals, and coral reefs

Sri Lanka:
  strategic location near major Indian Ocean sea lanes

Sudan:
  largest country in Africa; dominated by the Nile and its
  tributaries

Suriname:
  mostly tropical rain forest; great diversity of flora and
  fauna that, for the most part, is increasingly threatened by new
  development; relatively small population, most of which lives along
  the coast

Svalbard:
  northernmost part of the Kingdom of Norway; consists of
  nine main islands; glaciers and snowfields cover 60% of the total
  area

Swaziland:
  landlocked; almost completely surrounded by South Africa

Sweden:
  strategic location along Danish Straits linking Baltic and
  North Seas

Switzerland:
  landlocked; crossroads of northern and southern Europe;
  along with southeastern France and northern Italy, contains the
  highest elevations in Europe

Syria:
  there are 42 Israeli settlements and civilian land use sites
  in the Israeli-occupied Golan Heights (August 1999 est.)

Tajikistan:
  landlocked

Tanzania:
  Kilimanjaro is highest point in Africa

Thailand:
  controls only land route from Asia to Malaysia and
  Singapore

Tonga:
  archipelago of 170 islands (36 inhabited)

Tromelin Island:
  climatologically important location for forecasting
  cyclones; wildlife sanctuary

Tunisia:
  strategic location in central Mediterranean; Malta and
  Tunisia are discussing the commercial exploitation of the
  continental shelf between their countries, particularly for oil
  exploration

Turkey:
  strategic location controlling the Turkish Straits
  (Bosporus, Sea of Marmara, Dardanelles) that link Black and Aegean
  Seas

Turkmenistan:
  landlocked

Turks and Caicos Islands:
  30 islands (eight inhabited)

Uganda:
  landlocked

Ukraine:
  strategic position at the crossroads between Europe and
  Asia; second-largest country in Europe

United Arab Emirates:
  strategic location along southern approaches
  to Strait of Hormuz, a vital transit point for world crude oil

United Kingdom:
  lies near vital North Atlantic sea lanes; only 35 km
  from France and now linked by tunnel under the English Channel;
  because of heavily indented coastline, no location is more than 125
  km from tidal waters

United States:
  world's third-largest country (after Russia and
  Canada)

Uzbekistan:
  along with Liechtenstein, one of the only two doubly
  landlocked countries in the world

Venezuela:
  on major sea and air routes linking North and South
  America

Virgin Islands:
  important location along the Anegada Passage - a key
  shipping lane for the Panama Canal; Saint Thomas has one of the best
  natural, deepwater harbors in the Caribbean

Wake Island:
  strategic location in the North Pacific Ocean;
  emergency landing location for transpacific flights

Wallis and Futuna:
  both island groups have fringing reefs

West Bank:
  landlocked; highlands are main recharge area for Israel's
  coastal aquifers; there are 231 Israeli settlements and civilian
  land use sites in the West Bank and 29 in East Jerusalem (August
  1999 est.)

Yemen:
  strategic location on Bab el Mandeb, the strait linking the
  Red Sea and the Gulf of Aden, one of world's most active shipping
  lanes

Yugoslavia:
  controls one of the major land routes from Western
  Europe to Turkey and the Near East; strategic location along the
  Adriatic coast

Zambia:
  landlocked

Zimbabwe:
  landlocked

======================================================================

@Government - note



Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  The Dayton Agreement, signed in Paris on 14
  December 1995, retained Bosnia and Herzegovina's exterior border and
  created a joint multi-ethnic and democratic government. This
  national government - based on proportional representation similar
  to that which existed in the former socialist regime - is charged
  with conducting foreign, economic, and fiscal policy. The Dayton
  Agreement also recognized a second tier of government, comprised of
  two entities - a joint Bosniak/Croat Federation of Bosnia and
  Herzegovina and the Bosnian Serb Republika Srpska (RS) - each
  presiding over roughly one-half the territory. The Federation and RS
  governments are charged with overseeing internal functions. The
  Dayton Agreement established the Office of the High Representative
  (OHR) to oversee the implementation of the civilian aspects of the
  agreement. About 250 international and 450 local staff members are
  employed by the OHR.

Malawi:
  the executive exerts considerable influence over the
  legislature

Somalia:
  An interim Transitional National Government - with a
  president, prime minister, and 245-member National Assembly - was
  formed in October 2000. However, other governing bodies continue to
  exist and control various cities and regions of the country,
  including Somaliland, Puntland, and traditional clan and faction
  strongholds.

======================================================================

@Government type



Afghanistan:
  no functioning central government, administered by
  factions

Albania:
  emerging democracy

Algeria:
  republic

American Samoa:
  NA

Andorra:
  parliamentary democracy (since March 1993) that retains as
  its heads of state a coprincipality; the two princes are the
  president of France and bishop of Seo de Urgel, Spain, who are
  represented locally by coprinces' representatives

Angola:
  transitional government, nominally a multiparty democracy
  with a strong presidential system

Anguilla:
  NA

Antarctica:
  Antarctic Treaty Summary - the Antarctic Treaty, signed
  on 1 December 1959 and entered into force on 23 June 1961,
  establishes the legal framework for the management of Antarctica.
  The 23rd Antarctic Treaty Consultative Meeting was held in Peru in
  May 1999. At the end of 2000, there were 44 treaty member nations:
  27 consultative and 17 non-consultative. Consultative (voting)
  members include the seven nations that claim portions of Antarctica
  as national territory (some claims overlap) and 20 nonclaimant
  nations. The US and Russia have reserved the right to make claims.
  The US does not recognize the claims of others. Antarctica is
  administered through meetings of the consultative member nations.
  Decisions from these meetings are carried out by these member
  nations (within their areas) in accordance with their own national
  laws. The year in parentheses indicates when an acceding nation was
  voted to full consultative (voting) status, while no date indicates
  the country was an original 1959 treaty signatory. Claimant nations
  are - Argentina, Australia, Chile, France, New Zealand, Norway, and
  the UK. Nonclaimant consultative nations are - Belgium, Brazil
  (1983), Bulgaria (1998) China (1985), Ecuador (1990), Finland
  (1989), Germany (1981), India (1983), Italy (1987), Japan, South
  Korea (1989), Netherlands (1990), Peru (1989), Poland (1977),
  Russia, South Africa, Spain (1988), Sweden (1988), Uruguay (1985),
  and the US. Non-consultative (nonvoting) members, with year of
  accession in parentheses, are - Austria (1987), Canada (1988),
  Colombia (1989), Cuba (1984), Czech Republic (1993), Denmark (1965),
  Greece (1987), Guatemala (1991), Hungary (1984), North Korea (1987),
  Papua New Guinea (1981), Romania (1971), Slovakia (1993),
  Switzerland (1990), Turkey (1995), Ukraine (1992), and Venezuela
  (1999). Article 1 - area to be used for peaceful purposes only;
  military activity, such as weapons testing, is prohibited, but
  military personnel and equipment may be used for scientific research
  or any other peaceful purpose; Article 2 - freedom of scientific
  investigation and cooperation shall continue; Article 3 - free
  exchange of information and personnel, cooperation with the UN and
  other international agencies; Article 4 - does not recognize,
  dispute, or establish territorial claims and no new claims shall be
  asserted while the treaty is in force; Article 5 - prohibits nuclear
  explosions or disposal of radioactive wastes; Article 6 - includes
  under the treaty all land and ice shelves south of 60 degrees 00
  minutes south and reserves high seas rights; Article 7 -
  treaty-state observers have free access, including aerial
  observation, to any area and may inspect all stations,
  installations, and equipment; advance notice of all expeditions and
  of the introduction of military personnel must be given; Article 8 -
  allows for jurisdiction over observers and scientists by their own
  states; Article 9 - frequent consultative meetings take place among
  member nations; Article 10 - treaty states will discourage
  activities by any country in Antarctica that are contrary to the
  treaty; Article 11 - disputes to be settled peacefully by the
  parties concerned or, ultimately, by the ICJ; Articles 12, 13, 14 -
  deal with upholding, interpreting, and amending the treaty among
  involved nations. Other agreements - some 200 recommendations
  adopted at treaty consultative meetings and ratified by governments
  include - Agreed Measures for Fauna and Flora (1964) which were
  later incorporated into the Environmental Protocol; Convention for
  the Conservation of Antarctic Seals (1972); Convention on the
  Conservation of Antarctic Marine Living Resources (1980); a mineral
  resources agreement was signed in 1988 but remains unratified; the
  Protocol on Environmental Protection to the Antarctic Treaty was
  signed 4 October 1991 and entered into force 14 January 1998; this
  agreement provides for the protection of the Antarctic environment
  through five specific annexes: 1) marine pollution, 2) fauna and
  flora, 3) environmental impact assessments, 4) waste management, and
  5) protected area management; it prohibits all activities relating
  to mineral resources except scientific research.

Antigua and Barbuda:
  constitutional monarchy with UK-style parliament

Argentina:
  republic

Armenia:
  republic

Aruba:
  parliamentary democracy

Australia:
  democratic, federal-state system recognizing the British
  monarch as sovereign

Austria:
  federal republic

Azerbaijan:
  republic

Bahamas, The:
  constitutional parliamentary democracy

Bahrain:
  constitutional monarchy

Bangladesh:
  parliamentary democracy

Barbados:
  parliamentary democracy; independent sovereign state
  within the Commonwealth

Belarus:
  republic

Belgium:
  federal parliamentary democracy under a constitutional
  monarch

Belize:
  parliamentary democracy

Benin:
  republic under multiparty democratic rule; dropped
  Marxism-Leninism December 1989; democratic reforms adopted February
  1990; transition to multiparty system completed 4 April 1991

Bermuda:
  parliamentary British overseas territory with internal
  self-government

Bhutan:
  monarchy; special treaty relationship with India

Bolivia:
  republic

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  emerging democracy

Botswana:
  parliamentary republic

Brazil:
  federative republic

British Virgin Islands:
  NA

Brunei:
  constitutional sultanate

Bulgaria:
  parliamentary democracy

Burkina Faso:
  parliamentary

Burma:
  military regime

Burundi:
  republic

Cambodia:
  multiparty liberal democracy under a constitutional
  monarchy established in September 1993

Cameroon:
  unitary republic; multiparty presidential regime
  (opposition parties legalized in 1990)

  note:  preponderance of power remains with the president

Canada:
  confederation with parliamentary democracy

Cape Verde:
  republic

Cayman Islands:
  British crown colony

Central African Republic:
  republic

Chad:
  republic

Chile:
  republic

China:
  Communist state

Christmas Island:
  NA

Cocos (Keeling) Islands:
  NA

Colombia:
  republic; executive branch dominates government structure

Comoros:
  independent republic

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  dictatorship; presumably
  undergoing a transition to representative government

Congo, Republic of the:
  republic

Cook Islands:
  self-governing parliamentary democracy

Costa Rica:
  democratic republic

Cote d'Ivoire:
  republic; multiparty presidential regime established
  1960

Croatia:
  presidential/parliamentary democracy

Cuba:
  Communist state

Cyprus:
  republic

  note:  a disaggregation of the two ethnic communities inhabiting the
  island began following the outbreak of communal strife in 1963; this
  separation was further solidified after the Turkish intervention in
  July 1974 after a Greek junta-based coup attempt gave the Turkish
  Cypriots de facto control in the north; Greek Cypriots control the
  only internationally recognized government; on 15 November 1983
  Turkish Cypriot "President" Rauf DENKTASH declared independence and
  the formation of a "Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus" (TRNC),
  recognized only by Turkey; both sides publicly support a settlement
  based on a federation (Greek Cypriot position) or confederation
  (Turkish Cypriot position)

Czech Republic:
  parliamentary democracy

Denmark:
  constitutional monarchy

Djibouti:
  republic

Dominica:
  parliamentary democracy; republic within the Commonwealth

Dominican Republic:
  representative democracy

Ecuador:
  republic

Egypt:
  republic

El Salvador:
  republic

Equatorial Guinea:
  republic

Eritrea:
  transitional government

  note:  following a successful referendum on independence for the
  Autonomous Region of Eritrea on 23-25 April 1993, a National
  Assembly, composed entirely of the People's Front for Democracy and
  Justice or PFDJ, was established as a transitional legislature; a
  Constitutional Commission was also established to draft a
  constitution; ISAIAS Afworki was elected president by the
  transitional legislature; the constitution, ratified in May 1997,
  did not enter into effect, pending parliamentary and presidential
  elections; parliamentary elections have now been scheduled to take
  place in December 2001

Estonia:
  parliamentary democracy

Ethiopia:
  federal republic

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas):
  NA

Faroe Islands:
  NA

Fiji:
  republic

  note:  military coup leader Maj. Gen. Sitiveni RABUKA formally
  declared Fiji a republic on 6 October 1987

Finland:
  republic

France:
  republic

French Guiana:
  NA

French Polynesia:
  NA

Gabon:
  republic; multiparty presidential regime (opposition parties
  legalized in 1990)

Gambia, The:
  republic under multiparty democratic rule

Georgia:
  republic

Germany:
  federal republic

Ghana:
  constitutional democracy

Gibraltar:
  NA

Greece:
  parliamentary republic; monarchy rejected by referendum 8
  December 1974

Greenland:
  parliamentary democracy within a constitutional monarchy

Grenada:
  constitutional monarchy with Westminster-style parliament

Guadeloupe:
  NA

Guam:
  NA

Guatemala:
  constitutional democratic republic

Guernsey:
  NA

Guinea:
  republic

Guinea-Bissau:
  republic, multiparty since mid-1991

Guyana:
  republic within the Commonwealth

Haiti:
  elected government

Holy See (Vatican City):
  ecclesiastical

Honduras:
  democratic constitutional republic

Hong Kong:
  NA

Hungary:
  parliamentary democracy

Iceland:
  constitutional republic

India:
  federal republic

Indonesia:
  republic

Iran:
  theocratic republic

Iraq:
  republic

Ireland:
  republic

Israel:
  parliamentary democracy

Italy:
  republic

Jamaica:
  constitutional parliamentary democracy

Japan:
  constitutional monarchy with a parliamentary government

Jersey:
  NA

Jordan:
  constitutional monarchy

Kazakhstan:
  republic

Kenya:
  republic

Kiribati:
  republic

Korea, North:
  authoritarian socialist; one-man dictatorship

Korea, South:
  republic

Kuwait:
  nominal constitutional monarchy

Kyrgyzstan:
  republic

Laos:
  Communist state

Latvia:
  parliamentary democracy

Lebanon:
  republic

Lesotho:
  parliamentary constitutional monarchy

Liberia:
  republic

Libya:
  Jamahiriya (a state of the masses) in theory, governed by the
  populace through local councils; in fact, a military dictatorship

Liechtenstein:
  hereditary constitutional monarchy

Lithuania:
  parliamentary democracy

Luxembourg:
  constitutional monarchy

Macau:
  NA

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  emerging democracy

Madagascar:
  republic

Malawi:
  multiparty democracy

Malaysia:
  constitutional monarchy

  note:  Malaya (what is now Peninsular Malaysia) formed 31 August
  1957; Federation of Malaysia (Malaya, Sabah, Sarawak, and Singapore)
  formed 9 July 1963 (Singapore left the federation on 9 August 1965);
  nominally headed by the paramount ruler and a bicameral Parliament
  consisting of a nonelected upper house and an elected lower house;
  Peninsular Malaysian states - hereditary rulers in all but Melaka,
  Penang, Sabah, and Sarawak, where governors are appointed by the
  Malaysian Government; powers of state governments are limited by the
  federal constitution; under terms of the federation, Sabah and
  Sarawak retain certain constitutional prerogatives (e.g., the right
  to maintain their own immigration controls); Sabah - holds 20 seats
  in House of Representatives, with foreign affairs, defense, internal
  security, and other powers delegated to federal government; Sarawak
  - holds 28 seats in House of Representatives, with foreign affairs,
  defense, internal security, and other powers delegated to federal
  government

Maldives:
  republic

Mali:
  republic

Malta:
  republic

Man, Isle of:
  parliamentary democracy

Marshall Islands:
  constitutional government in free association with
  the US; the Compact of Free Association entered into force 21
  October 1986

Martinique:
  NA

Mauritania:
  republic

Mauritius:
  parliamentary democracy

Mayotte:
  NA

Mexico:
  federal republic

Micronesia, Federated States of:
  constitutional government in free
  association with the US; the Compact of Free Association entered
  into force 3 November 1986

Moldova:
  republic

Monaco:
  constitutional monarchy

Mongolia:
  parliamentary

Montserrat:
  NA

Morocco:
  constitutional monarchy

Mozambique:
  republic

Namibia:
  republic

Nauru:
  republic

Nepal:
  parliamentary democracy and constitutional monarchy

Netherlands:
  constitutional monarchy

Netherlands Antilles:
  parliamentary

New Caledonia:
  NA

New Zealand:
  parliamentary democracy

Nicaragua:
  republic

Niger:
  republic

Nigeria:
  republic transitioning from military to civilian rule

Niue:
  self-governing parliamentary democracy

Norfolk Island:
  NA

Northern Mariana Islands:
  commonwealth; self-governing with locally
  elected governor, lieutenant governor, and legislature

Norway:
  constitutional monarchy

Oman:
  monarchy

Pakistan:
  federal republic

Palau:
  constitutional government in free association with the US;
  the Compact of Free Association entered into force 1 October 1994

Panama:
  constitutional democracy

Papua New Guinea:
  constitutional monarchy with parliamentary
  democracy

Paraguay:
  constitutional republic

Peru:
  constitutional republic

Philippines:
  republic

Pitcairn Islands:
  NA

Poland:
  republic

Portugal:
  parliamentary democracy

Puerto Rico:
  commonwealth

Qatar:
  traditional monarchy

Reunion:
  NA

Romania:
  republic

Russia:
  federation

Rwanda:
  republic; presidential, multiparty system

Saint Helena:
  NA

Saint Kitts and Nevis:
  constitutional monarchy with
  Westminster-style parliament

Saint Lucia:
  Westminster-style parliamentary democracy

Saint Pierre and Miquelon:
  NA

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:
  parliamentary democracy;
  independent sovereign state within the Commonwealth

Samoa:
  constitutional monarchy under native chief

San Marino:
  independent republic

Sao Tome and Principe:
  republic

Saudi Arabia:
  monarchy

Senegal:
  republic under multiparty democratic rule

Seychelles:
  republic

Sierra Leone:
  constitutional democracy

Singapore:
  parliamentary republic

Slovakia:
  parliamentary democracy

Slovenia:
  parliamentary democratic republic

Solomon Islands:
  parliamentary democracy

Somalia:
  parliamentary

South Africa:
  republic

Spain:
  parliamentary monarchy

Sri Lanka:
  republic

Sudan:
  transitional - ruling military junta took power in 1989;
  government is dominated by members of Sudan's National Islamic Front
  (NIF), a fundamentalist political organization, which uses the
  National Congress Party (NCP) as its legal front

Suriname:
  constitutional democracy

Svalbard:
  NA

Swaziland:
  monarchy; independent member of Commonwealth

Sweden:
  constitutional monarchy

Switzerland:
  federal republic

Syria:
  republic under military regime since March 1963

Tajikistan:
  republic

Tanzania:
  republic

Thailand:
  constitutional monarchy

Togo:
  republic under transition to multiparty democratic rule

Tokelau:
  NA

Tonga:
  hereditary constitutional monarchy

Trinidad and Tobago:
  parliamentary democracy

Tunisia:
  republic

Turkey:
  republican parliamentary democracy

Turkmenistan:
  republic

Turks and Caicos Islands:
  NA

Tuvalu:
  constitutional monarchy with a parliamentary democracy;
  began debating republic status in 1992

Uganda:
  republic

Ukraine:
  republic

United Arab Emirates:
  federation with specified powers delegated to
  the UAE federal government and other powers reserved to member
  emirates

United Kingdom:
  constitutional monarchy

United States:
  federal republic; strong democratic tradition

Uruguay:
  constitutional republic

Uzbekistan:
  republic; effectively authoritarian presidential rule,
  with little power outside the executive branch

Vanuatu:
  republic

Venezuela:
  federal republic

Vietnam:
  Communist state

Virgin Islands:
  NA

Wallis and Futuna:
  NA

Western Sahara:
  legal status of territory and question of
  sovereignty unresolved; territory contested by Morocco and Polisario
  Front (Popular Front for the Liberation of the Saguia el Hamra and
  Rio de Oro), which in February 1976 formally proclaimed a
  government-in-exile of the Sahrawi Arab Democratic Republic (SADR);
  territory partitioned between Morocco and Mauritania in April 1976,
  with Morocco acquiring northern two-thirds; Mauritania, under
  pressure from Polisario guerrillas, abandoned all claims to its
  portion in August 1979; Morocco moved to occupy that sector shortly
  thereafter and has since asserted administrative control; the
  Polisario's government-in-exile was seated as an OAU member in 1984;
  guerrilla activities continued sporadically, until a UN-monitored
  cease-fire was implemented 6 September 1991

Yemen:
  republic

Yugoslavia:
  republic

Zambia:
  republic

Zimbabwe:
  parliamentary democracy

Taiwan:
  multiparty democratic regime headed by popularly elected
  president

======================================================================

@Heliports



Afghanistan:
  3 (2000 est.)

Albania:
  1 (2000 est.)

Algeria:
  1 (2000 est.)

Antarctica:
  27 stations have helicopter landing facilities
  (helipads) (2001 est.)

Austria:
  1 (2000 est.)

Bahamas, The:
  1 (2000 est.)

Bahrain:
  1 (2000 est.)

Belgium:
  1 (2000 est.)

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  4 (2000 est.)

Brunei:
  3 (2000 est.)

Bulgaria:
  1 (2000 est.)

Burma:
  1 (2000 est.)

Cambodia:
  3 (2000 est.)

Canada:
  18 (2000 est.)

Croatia:
  1 (2000 est.)

Cyprus:
  7 (2000 est.)

Czech Republic:
  1 (2000 est.)

Ecuador:
  1 (2000 est.)

Egypt:
  2 (2000 est.)

El Salvador:
  1 (2000 est.)

France:
  3 (2000 est.)

Germany:
  59 (2000 est.)

Greece:
  2 (2000 est.)

Holy See (Vatican City):
  1 (2000 est.)

Hong Kong:
  2 (2000 est.)

Hungary:
  5 (2000 est.)

India:
  16 (2000 est.)

Indonesia:
  4 (2000 est.)

Iran:
  11 (2000 est.)

Iraq:
  4 (2000 est.)

Israel:
  2 (2000 est.)

Italy:
  4 (2000 est.)

Japan:
  16 (2000 est.)

Jordan:
  1 (2000 est.)

Korea, South:
  203 (2000 est.)

Kuwait:
  3 (2000 est.)

Luxembourg:
  1 (2000 est.)

Malaysia:
  1 (2000 est.)

Mexico:
  2 (2000 est.)

Monaco:
  1 (shuttle service between the international airport at
  Nice, France, and Monaco's heliport at Fontvieille)

Morocco:
  1 (2000 est.)

Netherlands:
  1 (2000 est.)

New Caledonia:
  6 (2000 est.)

Nigeria:
  1 (2000 est.)

Northern Mariana Islands:
  1 (2000 est.)

Norway:
  1 (2000 est.)

Oman:
  1 (2000 est.)

Pakistan:
  8 (2000 est.)

Papua New Guinea:
  2 (2000 est.)

Philippines:
  1 (2000 est.)

Poland:
  3 (2000 est.)

Qatar:
  1 (2000 est.)

Romania:
  1 (2000 est.)

Saudi Arabia:
  5 (2000 est.)

Sierra Leone:
  1 (2000 est.)

Singapore:
  1 (2000 est.)

Spain:
  2 (2000 est.)

Sudan:
  1 (2000 est.)

Sweden:
  1 (2000 est.)

Syria:
  2 (2000 est.)

Thailand:
  2 (2000 est.)

Turkey:
  2 (2000 est.)

Uganda:
  1 (2000 est.)

United Arab Emirates:
  2 (2000 est.)

United Kingdom:
  11 (2000 est.)

United States:
  131 (2000 est.)

Venezuela:
  1 (2000 est.)

Western Sahara:
  1 (2000 est.)

Yugoslavia:
  2 (2000 est.)

Taiwan:
  3 (2000 est.)

======================================================================

@Highways



Afghanistan:
  total:  21,000 km

  paved:  2,793 km

  unpaved:  18,207 km (1998 est.)

Albania:
  total:  18,000 km

  paved:  5,400 km

  unpaved:  12,600 km (1998 est.)

Algeria:
  total:  104,000 km

  paved:  71,656 km (including 640 km of expressways)

  unpaved:  32,344 km (1996 est.)

American Samoa:
  total:  350 km

  paved:  150 km

  unpaved:  200 km

Andorra:
  total:  269 km

  paved:  198 km

  unpaved:  71 km (1994 est.)

Angola:
  total:  76,626 km

  paved:  19,156 km

  unpaved:  57,470 km (1997)

Anguilla:
  total:  279 km

  paved:  253 km

  unpaved:  26 km (1998 est.)

Antigua and Barbuda:
  total:  1,165 km

  paved:  384 km

  unpaved:  781 km (1999 est.)

Argentina:
  total:  215,434 km

  paved:  63,553 km (including 734 km of expressways)

  unpaved:  151,881 km (1998 est.)

Armenia:
  total:  8,431 km ()

  paved:  NA

  unpaved:  NA (1997)

Aruba:
  total:  800 km

  paved:  513 km

  unpaved:  287 km

  note:  most coastal roads are paved, while unpaved roads serve large
  tracts of the interior (1995)

Australia:
  total:  913,000 km

  paved:  353,331 km (including 1,363 km of expressways)

  unpaved:  559,669 km (1996)

Austria:
  total:  133,361 km

  paved:  133,361 km (including 1,613 km of expressways)

  unpaved:  0 km (1998)

Azerbaijan:
  total:  24,981 km

  paved:  23,057 km (these roads are said to be hard-surfaced, and
  include, in addition to conventionally paved roads, some that are
  surfaced with gravel or other coarse aggregate, making them
  trafficable in all weather)

  unpaved:  1,924 km (these roads are made of unstabilized earth and
  are difficult to negotiate in wet weather) (1998)

Bahamas, The:
  total:  2,693 km

  paved:  1,546 km

  unpaved:  1,147 km (1997)

Bahrain:
  total:  3,164 km

  paved:  2,433 km

  unpaved:  731 km

  note:  there is a paved causeway connecting Bahrain to Saudi Arabia
  (1997)

Bangladesh:
  total:  201,182 km

  paved:  19,112 km

  unpaved:  182,070 km (1997)

Barbados:
  total:  1,600 km

  paved:  1,578 km

  unpaved:  22 km (1998)

Belarus:
  total:  63,355 km

  paved:  60,567 km (these roads are said to be hard-surfaced, and
  include, in addition to conventionally paved roads, some that are
  surfaced with gravel or other coarse aggregate, making them
  trafficable in all weather)

  unpaved:  2,788 km (these roads are made of unstabilized earth and
  are difficult to negotiate in wet weather) (1998)

Belgium:
  total:  145,774 km

  paved:  116,182 km (including 1,674 km of expressways)

  unpaved:  29,592 km (1999)

Belize:
  total:  2,872 km

  paved:  488 km

  unpaved:  2,384 km (1998 est.)

Benin:
  total:  6,787 km

  paved:  1,357 km (including 10 km of expressways)

  unpaved:  5,430 km (1997 est.)

Bermuda:
  total:  225 km

  paved:  225 km

  unpaved:  0 km

  note:  in addition, there are 232 km of paved and unpaved roads that
  are privately owned (1997)

Bhutan:
  total:  3,285 km

  paved:  1,994 km

  unpaved:  1,291 km (1996)

Bolivia:
  total:  49,400 km

  paved:  2,500 km (including 30 km of expressways)

  unpaved:  46,900 km (1996)

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  total:  21,846 km

  paved:  14,020 km

  unpaved:  7,826 km

  note:  road system is in need of maintenance and repair (2001)

Botswana:
  total:  18,482 km

  paved:  4,343 km

  unpaved:  14,139 km (1996)

Brazil:
  total:  1.98 million km

  paved:  184,140 km

  unpaved:  1,795,860 km (1996)

British Indian Ocean Territory:
  total:  NA km

  paved:  short stretch of paved road of NA km between port and
  airfield on Diego Garcia

  unpaved:  NA km

British Virgin Islands:
  total:  132 km

  paved:  132 km

  unpaved:  0 km (1997)

Brunei:
  total:  1,712 km

  paved:  1,284 km

  unpaved:  428 km (1996)

Bulgaria:
  total:  36,724 km

  paved:  33,786 km (including 314 km of expressways)

  unpaved:  2,938 km (1999)

Burkina Faso:
  total:  12,506 km

  paved:  2,001 km

  unpaved:  10,505 km (1996)

Burma:
  total:  28,200 km

  paved:  3,440 km

  unpaved:  24,760 km (1996)

Burundi:
  total:  14,480 km

  paved:  1,028 km

  unpaved:  13,452 km (1996)

Cambodia:
  total:  35,769 km

  paved:  4,165 km

  unpaved:  31,604 km (1997)

Cameroon:
  total:  34,300 km

  paved:  4,288 km

  unpaved:  30,012 km (1995)

Canada:
  total:  901,902 km

  paved:  318,371 km (including 16,571 km of expressways)

  unpaved:  583,531 km (1999)

Cape Verde:
  total:  1,100 km

  paved:  858 km

  unpaved:  242 km (1996)

Cayman Islands:
  total:  406 km

  paved:  304 km

  unpaved:  102 km

Central African Republic:
  total:  23,810 km

  paved:  429 km

  unpaved:  23,381 km (2000)

Chad:
  total:  33,400 km

  paved:  267 km

  unpaved:  33,133 km (1996)

Chile:
  total:  79,800 km

  paved:  11,012 km

  unpaved:  68,788 km (1996)

China:
  total:  1.4 million km

  paved:  271,300 km (with at least 16,000 km of expressways)

  unpaved:  1,128,700 km (1999)

Christmas Island:
  total:  140 km (not including 100 km that is
  maintained by private industry)

  paved:  30 km

  unpaved:  110 km (1999)

Cocos (Keeling) Islands:
  total:  15 km

  paved:  NA km

  unpaved:  NA km (2001)

Colombia:
  total:  110,000 km

  paved:  26,000 km

  unpaved:  84,000 km (2000)

Comoros:
  total:  880 km

  paved:  673 km

  unpaved:  207 km (1996)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  total:  157,000 km (including 30
  km of expressways)(1996)

  paved:  NA km

  unpaved:  NA km

Congo, Republic of the:
  total:  12,800 km

  paved:  1,242 km

  unpaved:  11,558 km (1996)

Cook Islands:
  total:  320 km (1992)

  paved:  NA

  unpaved:  NA

Costa Rica:
  total:  37,273 km

  paved:  7,827 km

  unpaved:  29,446 km (1998 est.)

Cote d'Ivoire:
  total:  50,400 km

  paved:  4,889 km

  unpaved:  45,511 km (1996)

Croatia:
  total:  27,840 km

  paved:  23,497 km (including 330 km of expressways)

  unpaved:  4,343 km (1998)

Cuba:
  total:  60,858 km

  paved:  29,820 km (including 638 km of expressway)

  unpaved:  31,038 km (1997)

Cyprus:
  total:  Greek Cypriot area: 10,663 km (1998 est.); Turkish
  Cypriot area: 2,350 km (1996 est.)

  paved:  Greek Cypriot area: 6,249 km (1998 est.); Turkish Cypriot
  area: 1,370 km (1996 est.)

  unpaved:  Greek Cypriot area: 4,414 km (1998 est.); Turkish Cypriot
  area: 980 km (1996 est.)

Czech Republic:
  total:  55,432 km

  paved:  55,432 km (including 499 km of expressways)

  unpaved:  0 km (2000)

Denmark:
  total:  71,474 km

  paved:  71,474 km (including 880 km of expressways)

  unpaved:  0 km (1999)

Djibouti:
  total:  2,890 km

  paved:  364 km

  unpaved:  2,526 km (1996)

Dominica:
  total:  750 km

  paved:  375 km

  unpaved:  375 km (2001)

Dominican Republic:
  total:  12,600 km

  paved:  6,224 km

  unpaved:  6,376 km (1996)

Ecuador:
  total:  43,197 km

  paved:  8,165 km

  unpaved:  35,032 km (1999 est.)

Egypt:
  total:  64,000 km

  paved:  50,000 km

  unpaved:  14,000 km (1996)

El Salvador:
  total:  10,029 km

  paved:  1,986 km (including 327 km of expressways)

  unpaved:  8,043 km (1997)

Equatorial Guinea:
  total:  2,880 km

  paved:  0 km

  unpaved:  2,880 km (1996)

Eritrea:
  total:  3,850 km

  paved:  810 km

  unpaved:  3,040 km (2000)

Estonia:
  total:  30,300 km

  paved:  29,200 km (including 75 km of expressways); note - these
  roads are said to be hard-surfaced, and include, in addition to
  conventionally paved roads, some that are surfaced with gravel or
  other coarse aggregate, making them trafficable in all weather

  unpaved:  1,100 km (2000)

Ethiopia:
  total:  24,145 km

  paved:  3,290 km

  unpaved:  20,855 km (1998)

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas):
  total:  440 km

  paved:  50 km

  unpaved:  390 km

Faroe Islands:
  total:  463 km

  paved:  454 km

  unpaved:  9 km (1999)

Fiji:
  total:  3,440 km

  paved:  1,692 km

  unpaved:  1,748 km (1996)

Finland:
  total:  77,796 km

  paved:  49,789 km (including 444 km of expressways)

  unpaved:  28,042 km (1999)

France:
  total:  892,900 km

  paved:  892,900 km (including 9,900 km of expressways)

  unpaved:  0 km (1999)

French Guiana:
  total:  1,817 km

  paved:  817 km

  unpaved:  1,000 km (1998)

French Polynesia:
  total:  792 km

  paved:  264 km

  unpaved:  528 km (2000)

Gabon:
  total:  7,670 km

  paved:  629 km (including 30 km of expressways)

  unpaved:  7,041 km (1996)

Gambia, The:
  total:  2,700 km

  paved:  956 km

  unpaved:  1,744 km (1996)

Gaza Strip:
  total:  NA km

  paved:  NA km

  unpaved:  NA km

  note:  small, poorly developed road network

Georgia:
  total:  33,900 km

  paved:  29,500 km (these roads are said to be hard-surfaced, and
  include, in addition to conventionally paved roads, some that are
  surfaced with gravel or other coarse aggregate, making them
  trafficable in all weather)

  unpaved:  4,400 km (these roads are made of unstabilized earth and
  are difficult to negotiate in wet weather) (1990)

Germany:
  total:  656,140 km

  paved:  650,891 km (including 11,400 km of expressways)

  unpaved:  5,249 km (all-weather) (1998 est.)

Ghana:
  total:  39,409 km

  paved:  11,653 km (including 30 km of expressways)

  unpaved:  27,756 km (1997)

Gibraltar:
  total:  46.25 km

  paved:  46.25 km

  unpaved:  0 km (2001)

Greece:
  total:  117,000 km

  paved:  107,406 km (including 470 km of expressways)

  unpaved:  9,594 km (1996)

Greenland:
  total:  150 km

  paved:  60 km

  unpaved:  90 km

Grenada:
  total:  1,040 km

  paved:  638 km

  unpaved:  402 km (1996)

Guadeloupe:
  total:  2,560 km

  paved:  965 km

  unpaved:  1,595 km (1996)

Guam:
  total:  885 km

  paved:  675 km

  unpaved:  210 km

  note:  there are also 685 km of roads classified non-public,
  including roads located on federal government installations

Guatemala:
  total:  13,856 km

  paved:  4,370 km (including 140 km of expressways)

  unpaved:  9,486 km (1998)

Guernsey:
  total:  NA km

  paved:  NA km

  unpaved:  NA km

Guinea:
  total:  30,500 km

  paved:  5,033 km

  unpaved:  25,467 km (1996)

Guinea-Bissau:
  total:  4,400 km

  paved:  453 km

  unpaved:  3,947 km (1996)

Guyana:
  total:  7,970 km

  paved:  590 km

  unpaved:  7,380 km (1996)

Haiti:
  total:  4,160 km

  paved:  1,011 km

  unpaved:  3,149 km (1996)

Holy See (Vatican City):
  none; all city streets

Honduras:
  total:  15,400 km

  paved:  3,126 km

  unpaved:  12,274 km (1999 est.)

Hong Kong:
  total:  1,831 km

  paved:  1,831 km

  unpaved:  0 km (1997)

Hungary:
  total:  188,203 km

  paved:  81,680 km (including 448 km of expressways)

  unpaved:  106,523 km (1998 est.)

Iceland:
  total:  12,691 km

  paved:  3,262 km

  unpaved:  9,429 km (1999)

India:
  total:  3,319,644 km

  paved:  1,517,077 km

  unpaved:  1,802,567 km (1996)

Indonesia:
  total:  342,700 km

  paved:  158,670 km

  unpaved:  184,030 km (1997)

Iran:
  total:  140,200 km

  paved:  49,440 km (including 470 km of expressways)

  unpaved:  90,760 km (1998 est.)

Iraq:
  total:  45,550 km

  paved:  38,400 km

  unpaved:  7,150 km (1996 est.)

Ireland:
  total:  92,500 km

  paved:  87,043 km (including 115 km of expressways)

  unpaved:  5,457 km (1999 est.)

Israel:
  total:  15,965 km

  paved:  15,965 km (including 56 km of expressways)

  unpaved:  0 km (1998 est.)

Italy:
  total:  654,676 km

  paved:  654,676 km (including 6460 km of expressways)

  unpaved:  0 km (1997)

Jamaica:
  total:  19,000 km

  paved:  13,433 km

  unpaved:  5,567 km (1997)

Japan:
  total:  1,152,207 km

  paved:  863,003 km (including 6,114 km of expressways)

  unpaved:  289,204 km (1997 est.)

Jersey:
  total:  577 km (1995)

  paved:  NA km

  unpaved:  NA km

Jordan:
  total:  8,000 km

  paved:  8,000 km

  unpaved:  0 km (2000 est.)

Kazakhstan:
  total:  NA km

  paved:  150,000 km (these roads are said to be hard-surfaced, and
  include, in addition to conventionally paved roads, some that are
  surfaced with gravel or other coarse aggregate, making them
  trafficable in all weather) (2000)

  unpaved:  NA km (these roads are made of unstabilized earth and are
  difficult to negotiate in wet weather)

Kenya:
  total:  63,800 km

  paved:  8,868 km

  unpaved:  54,932 km (1996)

Kiribati:
  total:  670 km (1996)

  paved:  NA km

  unpaved:  NA km

Korea, North:
  total:  31,200 km

  paved:  1,997 km

  unpaved:  29,203 km (1996)

Korea, South:
  total:  87,534 km

  paved:  65,388 km (including 1,996 km of expressways)

  unpaved:  22,146 km (1999)

Kuwait:
  total:  4,450 km

  paved:  3,590 km

  unpaved:  860 km (1999 est.)

Kyrgyzstan:
  total:  18,500 km (including 140 km of expressways)

  paved:  16,854 km (these roads are said to be hard-surfaced, and
  include, in addition to conventionally paved roads, some that are
  surfaced with gravel or other coarse aggregate, making them
  trafficable in all weather)

  unpaved:  1,646 km (these roads are made of unstabilized earth and
  are difficult to negotiate in wet weather) (1996)

Laos:
  total:  14,000 km

  paved:  3,360 km

  unpaved:  10,640 km (1991)

Latvia:
  total:  59,178 km

  paved:  22,843 km

  unpaved:  36,335 km (1998 est.)

Lebanon:
  total:  7,300 km

  paved:  6,350 km

  unpaved:  950 km (1999 est.)

Lesotho:
  total:  4,955 km

  paved:  887 km

  unpaved:  4,068 km (1996)

Liberia:
  total:  10,600 km

  paved:  657 km

  unpaved:  9,943 km

  note:  (there is major deterioration on all highways due to heavy
  rains and lack of maintenance) (1996 est.)

Libya:
  total:  24,484 km

  paved:  6,800 km

  unpaved:  17,684 km (1996)

Liechtenstein:
  total:  250 km

  paved:  250 km

  unpaved:  0 km

Lithuania:
  total:  44,000 km

  paved:  35,500 km

  unpaved:  8,500 km (2000)

Luxembourg:
  total:  5,166 km

  paved:  5,166 km (including 118 km of expressways)

  unpaved:  0 km (1999)

Macau:
  total:  50 km

  paved:  50 km

  unpaved:  0 km (2001)

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  total:  8,684 km

  paved:  5,540 km (including 133 km of expressways)

  unpaved:  3,144 km (1997)

Madagascar:
  total:  49,837 km

  paved:  5,781 km

  unpaved:  44,056 km (1996)

Malawi:
  total:  16,451 km

  paved:  3,126 km

  unpaved:  13,325 km (1997)

Malaysia:
  total:  64,672 km

  paved:  48,707 km (including 1,192 km of expressways)

  unpaved:  15,965 km

  note:  in addition to these national and main regional roads,
  Malaysia has thousands of kilometers of local roads that are
  maintained by local jurisdictions (1999)

Maldives:
  total:  NA km

  paved:  NA km

  unpaved:  NA km; note - Male has 9.6 km of coral highways within the
  city (1988 est.)

Mali:
  total:  15,100 km

  paved:  1,827 km

  unpaved:  13,273 km (1996)

Malta:
  total:  1,742 km

  paved:  1,677 km

  unpaved:  65 km (1997)

Man, Isle of:
  total:  800 km

  paved:  800 km

  unpaved:  0 km (1999)

Marshall Islands:
  total:  NA km

  paved:  NA km

  unpaved:  NA km

  note:  paved roads on major islands (Majuro, Kwajalein), otherwise
  stone-, coral-, or laterite-surfaced roads and tracks

Martinique:
  total:  2,105 km (2000)

  paved:  NA km

  unpaved:  NA km

Mauritania:
  total:  7,660 km

  paved:  866 km

  unpaved:  6,794 km (1996)

Mauritius:
  total:  1,910 km

  paved:  1,834 km (including 36 km of expressways)

  unpaved:  76 km (1998)

Mayotte:
  total:  93 km

  paved:  72 km

  unpaved:  21 km

Mexico:
  total:  323,977 km

  paved:  96,221 km (including 6,335 km of expressways)

  unpaved:  227,756 km (1997)

Micronesia, Federated States of:
  total:  240 km

  paved:  42 km

  unpaved:  198 km (1996)

Midway Islands:
  total:  NA km

  paved:  NA km

  unpaved:  NA km

Moldova:
  total:  20,000 km

  paved:  13,900 km (these roads are said to be hard-surfaced, and
  include, in addition to conventionally paved roads, some that are
  surfaced with gravel or other coarse aggregate, making them
  trafficable in all weather)

  unpaved:  6,100 km (these roads are made of unstabilized earth and
  are difficult to negotiate in wet weather) (1990)

Monaco:
  total:  50 km

  paved:  50 km

  unpaved:  0 km (2001)

Mongolia:
  total:  3,387 km

  paved:  1,563 km

  unpaved:  1,824 km

  note:  there are also 45,862 km of rural roads that consist of
  rough, unimproved, cross-country tracks (2000)

Montserrat:
  total:  269 km

  paved:  203 km

  unpaved:  66 km (1995)

Morocco:
  total:  57,847 km

  paved:  30,254 km (including 327 km of expressways)

  unpaved:  27,593 km (1998)

Mozambique:
  total:  30,400 km

  paved:  5,685 km

  unpaved:  24,715 km (1996)

Namibia:
  total:  63,258 km

  paved:  5,250 km

  unpaved:  58,008 km (1997 est.)

Nauru:
  total:  30 km

  paved:  24 km

  unpaved:  6 km (1998 est.)

Nepal:
  total:  13,223 km

  paved:  4,073 km

  unpaved:  9,150 km (April 1999)

Netherlands:
  total:  125,575 km

  paved:  113,018 km (including 2,235 km of expressways)

  unpaved:  12,557 km (1998)

Netherlands Antilles:
  total:  600 km

  paved:  300 km

  unpaved:  300 km (1992)

New Caledonia:
  total:  4,825 km

  paved:  2,287 km

  unpaved:  2,538 km (1999)

New Zealand:
  total:  92,200 km

  paved:  53,568 km (including at least 144 km of expressways)

  unpaved:  38,632 km (1996)

Nicaragua:
  total:  16,382 km

  paved:  1,818 km

  unpaved:  14,564 km (1998)

Niger:
  total:  10,100 km

  paved:  798 km

  unpaved:  9,302 km (1996)

Nigeria:
  total:  194,394 km

  paved:  60,068 km (including 1,194 km of expressways)

  unpaved:  134,326 km

  note:  many of the roads reported as paved may be graveled; because
  of poor maintenance and years of heavy freight traffic - in part the
  result of the failure of the railroad system - much of the road
  system is barely usable (1997)

Niue:
  total:  234 km

  paved:  86 km

  unpaved:  148 km (106 km of which is access and plantation road)
  (2001)

Norfolk Island:
  total:  80 km

  paved:  53 km

  unpaved:  27 km (2001)

Northern Mariana Islands:
  total:  362 km

  paved:  NA km

  unpaved:  NA km (1991)

Norway:
  total:  91,180 km

  paved:  67,838 km (including 109 km of expressways)

  unpaved:  23,342 km (1999)

Oman:
  total:  32,800 km

  paved:  9,840 km (including 550 km of expressways)

  unpaved:  22,960 km (1996)

Pakistan:
  total:  247,811 km

  paved:  141,252 km (including 339 km of expressways)

  unpaved:  106,559 km (1998)

Palau:
  total:  61 km

  paved:  36 km

  unpaved:  25 km

Palmyra Atoll:
  much of the road and many causeways built during
  World War II are unserviceable and overgrown (2001)

Panama:
  total:  11,592 km

  paved:  4,079 km (including 30 km of expressways)

  unpaved:  7,513 km (2000)

Papua New Guinea:
  total:  19,600 km

  paved:  686 km

  unpaved:  18,914 km (1996)

Paraguay:
  total:  25,901 km

  paved:  3,067 km

  unpaved:  22,834 km (2001)

Peru:
  total:  72,900 km

  paved:  8,700 km

  unpaved:  64,200 km (1999 est.)

Philippines:
  total:  199,950 km

  paved:  39,590 km

  unpaved:  160,360 km (1998 est.)

Pitcairn Islands:
  total:  6.4 km

  paved:  0 km

  unpaved:  6.4 km

Poland:
  total:  381,046 km

  paved:  249,966 km (including 268 km of expressways)

  unpaved:  131,080 km (1998)

Portugal:
  total:  68,732 km

  paved:  59,110 km (including 797 km of expressways)

  unpaved:  9,622 km (1999)

Puerto Rico:
  total:  14,400 km

  paved:  14,400 km

  unpaved:  0 km (1996)

Qatar:
  total:  1,230 km

  paved:  1,107 km

  unpaved:  123 km (1996)

Reunion:
  total:  2,724 km

  paved:  1,300 km (including 73 km of four-lane road)

  unpaved:  1,424 km

  note:  370 km of road are maintained by national authorities, 754 km
  by departmental authorities and 1600 km by local authorities (1994)

Romania:
  total:  153,359 km

  paved:  103,671 km (including 133 km of expressways)

  unpaved:  49,688 km (1998 est.)

Russia:
  total:  952,000 km

  paved:  752,000 km (including, in addition to about 336,000 km of
  conventionally paved roads, about 416,000 km of roads, the surfaces
  of which have been stabilized with gravel or other coarse
  aggregates, making them trafficable in wet weather)

  unpaved:  200,000 km (these roads are made of unstabilized earth and
  are difficult to negotiate in wet weather) (1998)

Rwanda:
  total:  12,000 km

  paved:  1,000 km

  unpaved:  11,000 km (1997 est.)

Saint Helena:
  total:  158 km (Saint Helena 118 km, Ascension 40 km,
  Tristan da Cunha 0 km)

  paved:  138 km (Saint Helena 98km, Ascension 40 km, Tristan da Cunha
  0 km)

  unpaved:  NA km 20 km (Saint Helena 20 km, Ascension 0 km, Tristan
  da Cunha 0 km)

Saint Kitts and Nevis:
  total:  320 km

  paved:  136 km

  unpaved:  184 km (2000)

Saint Lucia:
  total:  1,210 km

  paved:  63 km

  unpaved:  1,147 km (1996)

Saint Pierre and Miquelon:
  total:  114 km

  paved:  69 km

  unpaved:  45 km (1994 est.)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:
  total:  1,040 km

  paved:  320 km

  unpaved:  720 km (1996)

Samoa:
  total:  835 km

  paved:  267 km

  unpaved:  569 km (1983)

San Marino:
  total:  220 km

  paved:  220 km

  unpaved:  0 km (2001)

Sao Tome and Principe:
  total:  320 km

  paved:  218 km

  unpaved:  102 km (1996)

Saudi Arabia:
  total:  146,524 km

  paved:  44,104 km

  unpaved:  102,420 km (1997 est.)

Senegal:
  total:  14,576 km

  paved:  4,271 km

  unpaved:  10,305 km (1996)

Seychelles:
  total:  373 km

  paved:  315 km

  unpaved:  58 km (1997)

Sierra Leone:
  total:  11,300 km

  paved:  904 km

  unpaved:  10,396 km (1997)

Singapore:
  total:  3,150 km

  paved:  3,066 km (including 150 km of expressways)

  unpaved:  84 km (2000)

Slovakia:
  total:  17,710 km

  paved:  17,533 km (including 288 km of expressways)

  unpaved:  177 km (1998 est.)

Slovenia:
  total:  19,586 km

  paved:  17,745 km (including 249 km of expressways)

  unpaved:  1,841 km (1998 est.)

Solomon Islands:
  total:  1,360 km

  paved:  34 km

  unpaved:  1,326 km (includes about 800 km of private plantation
  roads) (1996 est.)

Somalia:
  total:  22,100 km

  paved:  2,608 km

  unpaved:  19,492 km (1996)

South Africa:
  total:  358,596 km

  paved:  59,753 km (including 1927 km of expressways)

  unpaved:  298,843 km (1996)

Spain:
  total:  346,858 km

  paved:  343,389 km (including 9,063 km of expressways)

  unpaved:  3,469 km (1997)

Sri Lanka:
  total:  11,285 km

  paved:  10,721 km

  unpaved:  564 km (1998 est.)

Sudan:
  total:  11,900 km

  paved:  4,320 km

  unpaved:  7,580 km (1996)

Suriname:
  total:  4,530 km

  paved:  1,178 km

  unpaved:  3,352 km (1996)

Svalbard:
  total:  NA km

  paved:  NA km

  unpaved:  NA km

Swaziland:
  total:  3,000 km

  paved:  850 km

  unpaved:  2,150 km (1997)

Sweden:
  total:  210,760 km

  paved:  162,707 km (including 1,428 km of expressways)

  unpaved:  48,053 km (1999)

Switzerland:
  total:  71,059 km (including 1,638 km of expressways)

  paved:  71,059 km

  unpaved:  0 km (1999)

Syria:
  total:  41,451 km

  paved:  9,575 km (including 877 km of expressways)

  unpaved:  31,876 km (1997)

Tajikistan:
  total:  29,900 km

  paved:  21,400 km (these roads are said to be hard-surfaced, and
  include, in addition to conventionally paved roads, some that are
  surfaced with gravel or other coarse aggregate, making them
  trafficable in all weather)

  unpaved:  8,500 km (these roads are made of unstabilized earth and
  are difficult to negotiate in wet weather) (1990)

Tanzania:
  total:  88,200 km

  paved:  3,704 km

  unpaved:  84,496 km (1996)

Thailand:
  total:  64,600 km

  paved:  62,985 km

  unpaved:  1,615 km (1996)

Togo:
  total:  7,520 km

  paved:  2,376 km

  unpaved:  5,144 km (1996)

Tokelau:
  total:  NA km

  paved:  NA km

  unpaved:  NA km

Tonga:
  total:  680 km

  paved:  184 km

  unpaved:  496 km (1996)

Trinidad and Tobago:
  total:  8,320 km

  paved:  4,252 km

  unpaved:  4,068 km (1996)

Tunisia:
  total:  23,100 km

  paved:  18,226 km

  unpaved:  4,874 km (1996)

Turkey:
  total:  382,059 km

  paved:  106,976 km (including 1,726 km of expressways)

  unpaved:  275,083 km (1999 est.)

Turkmenistan:
  total:  22,000 km

  paved:  18,000 km (these roads are said to be hard-surfaced, and
  include, in addition to conventionally paved roads, some that are
  surfaced with gravel or other coarse aggregate, making them
  trafficable in all weather)

  unpaved:  4,000 km (these roads are made of unstabilized earth and
  are difficult to negotiate in wet weather) (1996)

Turks and Caicos Islands:
  total:  121 km

  paved:  24 km

  unpaved:  97 km (2000)

Tuvalu:
  total:  8 km

  paved:  0 km

  unpaved:  8 km (1996)

Uganda:
  total:  27,000 km

  paved:  1,800 km

  unpaved:  25,200 km (of which about 4200 km are all-weather roads)
  (1990)

Ukraine:
  total:  273,700 km

  paved:  236,400 km (including 1,770 km of expressways); note -
  (these roads are said to be hard-surfaced, and include, in addition
  to conventionally paved roads, some that are surfaced with gravel or
  other coarse aggregate, making them trafficable in all weather)

  unpaved:  37,300 km (these roads are made of unstabilized earth and
  are difficult to negotiate in wet weather) (1990)

United Arab Emirates:
  total:  4,835 km

  paved:  4,835 km

  unpaved:  0 km (1998 est.)

United Kingdom:
  total:  371,603 km

  paved:  371,603 km (including 3,303 km of expressways)

  unpaved:  0 km (1998 est.)

United States:
  total:  6,370,031 km

  paved:  5,733,028 km (including 74,091 km of expressways)

  unpaved:  637,003 km (1997)

Uruguay:
  total:  8,983 km

  paved:  8,085 km

  unpaved:  898 km (1999)

Uzbekistan:
  total:  81,600 km

  paved:  71,237 km (these roads are said to be hard-surfaced, and
  include, in addition to conventionally paved roads, some that are
  surfaced with gravel or other coarse aggregate, making them
  trafficable in all weather)

  unpaved:  10,363 km (these roads are made of unstabilized earth and
  are difficult to negotiate in wet weather) (1996)

Vanuatu:
  total:  1,070 km

  paved:  256 km

  unpaved:  814 km (1996)

Venezuela:
  total:  96,155 km

  paved:  32,308 km

  unpaved:  63,847 km (1997 est.)

Vietnam:
  total:  93,300 km

  paved:  23,418 km

  unpaved:  69,882 km (1996)

Virgin Islands:
  total:  856 km

  paved:  NA km

  unpaved:  NA km (2000)

Wallis and Futuna:
  total:  120 km (Ile Uvea 100 km, Ile Futuna 20 km)

  paved:  16 km (all on Ile Uvea)

  unpaved:  104 km (Ile Uvea 84 km, Ile Futuna 20 km)

West Bank:
  total:  4,500 km

  paved:  2,700 km

  unpaved:  1,800 km (1997 est.)

  note:  Israelis have developed many highways to service Jewish
  settlements

Western Sahara:
  total:  6,200 km

  paved:  1,350 km

  unpaved:  4,850 km (1991 est.)

World:
  total:  NA km

  paved:  NA km

  unpaved:  NA km

Yemen:
  total:  69,263 km

  paved:  9,963 km

  unpaved:  59,300 km (1999)

Yugoslavia:
  total:  48,603 km

  paved:  28,822 km (including 560 km of expressways)

  unpaved:  19,781 km (1998 est.)

  note:  because of the 1999 Kosovo conflict, many road bridges were
  destroyed; since the end of the conflict in June 1999, there has
  been an intensive program to either rebuild bridges or build by-pass
  routes

Zambia:
  total:  66,781 km

  paved:  NA km

  unpaved:  NA km (1997 est.)

Zimbabwe:
  total:  18,338 km

  paved:  8,692 km

  unpaved:  9,646 km (1996 est.)

Taiwan:
  total:  34,901 km

  paved:  31,271 km (including 538 km of expressways)

  unpaved:  3,630 km (1998 est.)

======================================================================

@HIV/AIDS - adult prevalence rate



Afghanistan:
  less than 0.01% (1999 est.)

Albania:
  less than 0.01% (1999 est.)

Algeria:
  0.07% (1999 est.)

American Samoa:
  NA%

Andorra:
  NA%

Angola:
  2.78% (1999 est.)

Anguilla:
  NA%

Antigua and Barbuda:
  NA%

Argentina:
  0.69% (1999 est.)

Armenia:
  0.01% (1999 est.)

Aruba:
  NA%

Australia:
  0.15% (1999 est.)

Austria:
  0.23% (1999 est.)

Azerbaijan:
  less than 0.01% (1999 est.)

Bahamas, The:
  4.13% (1999 est.)

Bahrain:
  0.15% (1999 est.)

Bangladesh:
  0.02% (1999 est.)

Barbados:
  1.17% (1999 est.)

Belarus:
  0.28% (1999 est.)

Belgium:
  0.15% (1999 est.)

Belize:
  2.01% (1999 est.)

Benin:
  2.45% (1999 est.)

Bermuda:
  NA%

Bhutan:
  less than 0.01% (1999 est.)

Bolivia:
  0.1% (1999 est.)

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  0.04% (1999 est.)

Botswana:
  35.8% (1999 est.)

Brazil:
  0.57% (1999 est.)

British Virgin Islands:
  NA%

Brunei:
  0.2% (1999 est.)

Bulgaria:
  0.01% (1999 est.)

Burkina Faso:
  6.44% (1999 est.)

Burma:
  1.99% (1999 est.)

Burundi:
  11.32% (1999 est.)

Cambodia:
  4.04% (1999 est.)

Cameroon:
  7.73% (1999 est.)

Canada:
  0.3% (1999 est.)

Cape Verde:
  NA%

Cayman Islands:
  NA%

Central African Republic:
  13.84% (1999 est.)

Chad:
  2.69% (1999 est.)

Chile:
  0.19% (1999 est.)

China:
  0.07% (1999 est.)

Christmas Island:
  NA%

Cocos (Keeling) Islands:
  NA%

Colombia:
  0.31% (1999 est.)

Comoros:
  0.12% (1999 est.)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  5.07% (1999 est.)

Congo, Republic of the:
  6.43% (1999 est.)

Cook Islands:
  NA%

Costa Rica:
  0.54% (1999 est.)

Cote d'Ivoire:
  10.76% (1999 est.)

Croatia:
  0.02% (1999 est.)

Cuba:
  0.03% (1999 est.)

Cyprus:
  0.1% (1999 est.)

Czech Republic:
  0.04% (1999 est.)

Denmark:
  0.17% (1999 est.)

Djibouti:
  11.75% (1999 est.)

Dominica:
  NA%

Dominican Republic:
  2.8% (1999 est.)

Ecuador:
  0.29% (1999 est.)

Egypt:
  0.02% (1999 est.)

El Salvador:
  0.6% (1999 est.)

Equatorial Guinea:
  0.51% (1999 est.)

Eritrea:
  2.87% (1999 est.)

Estonia:
  0.04% (1999 est.)

Ethiopia:
  10.63% (1999 est.)

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas):
  NA%

Faroe Islands:
  NA%

Fiji:
  0.07% (1999 est.)

Finland:
  0.05% (1999 est.)

France:
  0.44% (1999 est.)

French Guiana:
  NA%

French Polynesia:
  NA%

Gabon:
  4.16% (1999 est.)

Gambia, The:
  1.95% (1999 est.)

Gaza Strip:
  NA%

Georgia:
  less than 0.01% (1999 est.)

Germany:
  0.1% (1999 est.)

Ghana:
  3.6% (1999 est.)

Gibraltar:
  NA%

Greece:
  0.16% (1999 est.)

Greenland:
  NA%

Grenada:
  NA%

Guadeloupe:
  NA%

Guam:
  NA%

Guatemala:
  1.38% (1999 est.)

Guernsey:
  NA%

Guinea:
  1.54% (1999 est.)

Guinea-Bissau:
  2.5% (1999 est.)

Guyana:
  3.01% (1999 est.)

Haiti:
  5.17% (1999 est.)

Holy See (Vatican City):
  NA%

Honduras:
  1.92% (1999 est.)

Hong Kong:
  0.06% (1999 est.)

Hungary:
  0.05% (1999 est.)

Iceland:
  0.14% (1999 est.)

India:
  0.7% (1999 est.)

Indonesia:
  0.05% (1999 est.)

Iran:
  less than 0.01% (1999 est.)

Iraq:
  less than 0.01% (1999 est.)

Ireland:
  0.1% (1999 est.)

Israel:
  0.08% (1999 est.)

Italy:
  0.35% (1999 est.)

Jamaica:
  0.71% (1999 est.)

Japan:
  0.02% (1999 est.)

Jersey:
  NA%

Jordan:
  0.02% (1999 est.)

Kazakhstan:
  0.04% (1999 est.)

Kenya:
  13.95% (1999 est.)

Kiribati:
  NA%

Korea, North:
  NA%

Korea, South:
  0.01% (1999 est.)

Kuwait:
  0.12% (1999 est.)

Kyrgyzstan:
  less than 0.01% (1999 est.)

Laos:
  0.05% (1999 est.)

Latvia:
  0.11% (1999 est.)

Lebanon:
  0.09% (1999 est.)

Lesotho:
  23.57% (1999 est.)

Liberia:
  2.8% (1999 est.)

Libya:
  0.05% (1999 est.)

Liechtenstein:
  NA%

Lithuania:
  0.02% (1999 est.)

Luxembourg:
  0.16% (1999 est.)

Macau:
  NA%

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  less than 0.01% (1999
  est.)

Madagascar:
  0.15% (1999 est.)

Malawi:
  15.96% (1999 est.)

Malaysia:
  0.42% (1999 est.)

Maldives:
  0.05% (1999 est.)

Mali:
  2.03% (1999 est.)

Malta:
  0.52% (1999 est.)

Man, Isle of:
  NA%

Marshall Islands:
  NA%

Martinique:
  NA%

Mauritania:
  1.8% (2000 est.)

Mauritius:
  0.08% (1999 est.)

Mayotte:
  NA%

Mexico:
  0.29% (1999 est.)

Micronesia, Federated States of:
  NA%

Moldova:
  0.2% (1999 est.)

Monaco:
  NA%

Mongolia:
  less than 0.01% (1999 est.)

Montserrat:
  NA%

Morocco:
  0.03% (1999 est.)

Mozambique:
  13.22% (1999 est.)

Namibia:
  19.54% (1999 est.)

Nauru:
  NA%

Nepal:
  0.29% (1999 est.)

Netherlands:
  0.19% (1999 est.)

Netherlands Antilles:
  NA%

New Caledonia:
  NA%

New Zealand:
  0.06% (1999 est.)

Nicaragua:
  0.2% (1999 est.)

Niger:
  1.35% (1999 est.)

Nigeria:
  5.06% (1999 est.)

Niue:
  NA%

Norfolk Island:
  NA%

Northern Mariana Islands:
  NA%

Norway:
  less than 100 (1999 est.)

Oman:
  0.11% (1999 est.)

Pakistan:
  0.1% (1999 est.)

Palau:
  NA%

Panama:
  1.54% (1999 est.)

Papua New Guinea:
  0.22% (1999 est.)

Paraguay:
  0.11% (1999 est.)

Peru:
  0.35% (1999 est.)

Philippines:
  0.07% (1999 est.)

Pitcairn Islands:
  NA%

Poland:
  0.07% (1999 est.)

Portugal:
  0.74% (1999 est.)

Puerto Rico:
  NA%

Qatar:
  0.09% (1999 est.)

Reunion:
  NA%

Romania:
  0.02% (1999 est.)

Russia:
  0.18% (1999 est.)

Rwanda:
  11.21% (1999 est.)

Saint Helena:
  NA%

Saint Kitts and Nevis:
  NA%

Saint Lucia:
  NA%

Saint Pierre and Miquelon:
  NA%

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:
  NA%

Samoa:
  NA%

San Marino:
  NA%

Sao Tome and Principe:
  NA%

Saudi Arabia:
  0.01% (1999 est.)

Senegal:
  1.77% (1999 est.)

Seychelles:
  NA%

Sierra Leone:
  2.99% (1999 est.)

Singapore:
  0.19% (1999 est.)

Slovakia:
  less than 0.01% (1999 est.)

Slovenia:
  0.02% (1999 est.)

Solomon Islands:
  NA%

Somalia:
  NA%

South Africa:
  19.94% (1999 est.)

Spain:
  0.58% (1999 est.)

Sri Lanka:
  0.07% (1999 est.)

Sudan:
  0.99% (1999 est.)

Suriname:
  1.26% (1999 est.)

Svalbard:
  0% (2001)

Swaziland:
  25.25% (1999 est.)

Sweden:
  0.08% (1999 est.)

Switzerland:
  0.46% (1999 est.)

Syria:
  0.01% (1999 est.)

Tajikistan:
  less than 0.01% (1999 est.)

Tanzania:
  8.09% (1999 est.)

Thailand:
  2.15% (1999 est.)

Togo:
  5.98% (1999 est.)

Tokelau:
  NA%

Tonga:
  NA%

Trinidad and Tobago:
  1.05% (1999 est.)

Tunisia:
  0.04% (1999 est.)

Turkey:
  0.01% (1999 est.)

Turkmenistan:
  0.01% (1999 est.)

Turks and Caicos Islands:
  NA%

Tuvalu:
  NA%

Uganda:
  8.3% (1999 est.)

Ukraine:
  0.96% (1999 est.)

United Arab Emirates:
  0.18% (1999 est.)

United Kingdom:
  0.11% (1999 est.)

United States:
  0.61% (1999 est.)

Uruguay:
  0.33% (1999 est.)

Uzbekistan:
  less than 0.01% (1999 est.)

Vanuatu:
  NA%

Venezuela:
  0.49% (1999 est.)

Vietnam:
  0.24% (1999 est.)

Virgin Islands:
  NA%

Wallis and Futuna:
  NA%

West Bank:
  NA%

Western Sahara:
  NA%

World:
  NA%

Yemen:
  0.01% (1999 est.)

Yugoslavia:
  NA%

Zambia:
  19.95% (1999 est.)

Zimbabwe:
  25.06% (1999 est.)

======================================================================

@HIV/AIDS - deaths



Afghanistan:
  NA

Albania:
  less than 100 (1999 est.)

Algeria:
  NA

American Samoa:
  NA

Andorra:
  NA

Angola:
  15,000 (1999 est.)

Anguilla:
  NA

Antigua and Barbuda:
  NA

Argentina:
  1,800 (1999 est.)

Armenia:
  less than 100 (1999 est.)

Aruba:
  NA

Australia:
  100 (1999 est.)

Austria:
  less than 100 (1999 est.)

Azerbaijan:
  less than 100 (1999 est.)

Bahamas, The:
  500 (1999 est.)

Bahrain:
  NA

Bangladesh:
  1,000 (1999 est.)

Barbados:
  130 (1999 est.)

Belarus:
  400 (1999 est.)

Belgium:
  less than 100 (1999 est.)

Belize:
  170 (1999 est.)

Benin:
  5,600 (1999 est.)

Bermuda:
  NA

Bhutan:
  NA

Bolivia:
  380 (1999 est.)

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  less than 100 (1999 est.)

Botswana:
  24,000 (1999 est.)

Brazil:
  18,000 (1999 est.)

British Virgin Islands:
  NA

Brunei:
  NA

Bulgaria:
  less than 100 (1999 est.)

Burkina Faso:
  43,000 (1999 est.)

Burma:
  48,000 (1999 est.)

Burundi:
  39,000 (1999 est.)

Cambodia:
  14,000 (1999 est.)

Cameroon:
  52,000 (1999 est.)

Canada:
  400 (1999 est.)

Cape Verde:
  NA

Cayman Islands:
  NA

Central African Republic:
  23,000 (1999 est.)

Chad:
  10,000 (1999 est.)

Chile:
  1,000 (1999 est.)

China:
  17,000 (1999 est.)

Christmas Island:
  NA

Cocos (Keeling) Islands:
  NA

Colombia:
  1,700 (1999 est.)

Comoros:
  NA

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  95,000 (1999 est.)

Congo, Republic of the:
  8,600 (1999 est.)

Cook Islands:
  NA

Costa Rica:
  750 (1999 est.)

Cote d'Ivoire:
  72,000 (1999 est.)

Croatia:
  less than 100 (1999 est.)

Cuba:
  120 (1999 est.)

Cyprus:
  NA

Czech Republic:
  less than 100 (1999 est.)

Denmark:
  less than 100 (1999 est.)

Djibouti:
  3,100 (1999 est.)

Dominica:
  NA

Dominican Republic:
  4,900 (1999 est.)

Ecuador:
  1,400 (1999 est.)

Egypt:
  NA

El Salvador:
  1,300 (1999 est.)

Equatorial Guinea:
  120 (1999 est.)

Eritrea:
  NA

Estonia:
  less than 100 (1999 est.)

Ethiopia:
  280,000 (1999 est.)

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas):
  NA

Faroe Islands:
  NA

Fiji:
  NA

Finland:
  less than 100 (1999 est.)

France:
  2,000 (1999 est.)

French Guiana:
  NA

French Polynesia:
  NA

Gabon:
  2,000 (1999 est.)

Gambia, The:
  1,400 (1999 est.)

Gaza Strip:
  NA

Georgia:
  less than 100 (1999 est.)

Germany:
  600 (1999 est.)

Ghana:
  33,000 (1999 est.)

Gibraltar:
  NA

Greece:
  less than 100 (1999 est.)

Greenland:
  NA

Grenada:
  NA

Guadeloupe:
  NA

Guam:
  NA

Guatemala:
  3,600 (1999 est.)

Guernsey:
  NA

Guinea:
  5,600 (1999 est.)

Guinea-Bissau:
  1,300 (1999 est.)

Guyana:
  900 (1999 est.)

Haiti:
  23,000 (1999 est.)

Holy See (Vatican City):
  NA

Honduras:
  4,200 (1999 est.)

Hong Kong:
  less than 100 (1999 est.)

Hungary:
  less than 100 (1999 est.)

Iceland:
  less than 100 (1999 est.)

India:
  310,000 (1999 est.)

Indonesia:
  3,100 (1999 est.)

Iran:
  NA

Iraq:
  NA

Ireland:
  less than 100 (1999 est.)

Israel:
  less than 100 (1999 est.)

Italy:
  1,000 (1999 est.)

Jamaica:
  650 (1999 est.)

Japan:
  150 (1999 est.)

Jersey:
  NA

Jordan:
  NA

Kazakhstan:
  less than 100 (1999 est.)

Kenya:
  180,000 (1999 est.)

Kiribati:
  NA

Korea, North:
  NA

Korea, South:
  180 (1999 est.)

Kuwait:
  NA

Kyrgyzstan:
  less than 100 (1999 est.)

Laos:
  130 (1999 est.)

Latvia:
  less than 100 (1999 est.)

Lebanon:
  NA

Lesotho:
  16,000 (1999 est.)

Liberia:
  4,500 (1999 est.)

Libya:
  NA

Liechtenstein:
  NA

Lithuania:
  less than 100 (1999 est.)

Luxembourg:
  less than 100 (1999 est.)

Macau:
  NA

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  less than 100 (1999 est.)

Madagascar:
  870 (1999 est.)

Malawi:
  70,000 (1999 est.)

Malaysia:
  1,900 (1999 est.)

Maldives:
  NA

Mali:
  9,900 (1999 est.)

Malta:
  less than 100 (1999 est.)

Man, Isle of:
  NA

Marshall Islands:
  NA

Martinique:
  NA

Mauritania:
  610 (1999 est.)

Mauritius:
  NA

Mayotte:
  NA

Mexico:
  4,700 (1999 est.)

Micronesia, Federated States of:
  NA

Moldova:
  less than 100 (1999 est.)

Monaco:
  NA

Mongolia:
  NA

Montserrat:
  NA

Morocco:
  NA

Mozambique:
  98,000 (1999 est.)

Namibia:
  18,000 (1999 est.)

Nauru:
  NA

Nepal:
  2,500 (1999 est.)

Netherlands:
  100 (1999 est.)

Netherlands Antilles:
  NA

New Caledonia:
  NA

New Zealand:
  less than 100 (1999 est.)

Nicaragua:
  360 (1999 est.)

Niger:
  6,500 (1999 est.)

Nigeria:
  250,000 (1999 est.)

Niue:
  NA

Norfolk Island:
  NA

Northern Mariana Islands:
  NA

Norway:
  8 (1999)

Oman:
  NA

Pakistan:
  6,500 (1999 est.)

Palau:
  NA

Panama:
  1,200 (1999 est.)

Papua New Guinea:
  450 (1999 est.)

Paraguay:
  220 (1999 est.)

Peru:
  4,100 (1999 est.)

Philippines:
  1,200 (1999 est.)

Pitcairn Islands:
  NA

Poland:
  less than 100 (1999 est.)

Portugal:
  280 (1999 est.)

Puerto Rico:
  NA

Qatar:
  NA

Reunion:
  NA

Romania:
  350 (1999 est.)

Russia:
  850 (1999 est.)

Rwanda:
  40,000 (1999 est.)

Saint Helena:
  NA

Saint Kitts and Nevis:
  NA

Saint Lucia:
  NA

Saint Pierre and Miquelon:
  NA

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:
  NA

Samoa:
  NA

San Marino:
  NA

Sao Tome and Principe:
  NA

Saudi Arabia:
  NA

Senegal:
  7,800 (1999 est.)

Seychelles:
  NA

Sierra Leone:
  8,200 (1999 est.)

Singapore:
  210 (1999 est.)

Slovakia:
  less than 100 (1999 est.)

Slovenia:
  less than 100 (1999 est.)

Solomon Islands:
  NA

Somalia:
  NA

South Africa:
  250,000 (1999 est.)

Spain:
  2,000 (1999 est.)

Sri Lanka:
  490 (1999 est.)

Sudan:
  NA

Suriname:
  210 (1999 est.)

Svalbard:
  0 (2001)

Swaziland:
  7,100 (1999 est.)

Sweden:
  less than 100 (1999 est.)

Switzerland:
  150 (1999 est.)

Syria:
  NA

Tajikistan:
  less than 100 (1999 est.)

Tanzania:
  140,000 (1999 est.)

Thailand:
  66,000 (1999 est.)

Togo:
  14,000 (1999 est.)

Tokelau:
  NA

Tonga:
  NA

Trinidad and Tobago:
  530 (1999 est.)

Tunisia:
  NA

Turkey:
  NA

Turkmenistan:
  less than 100 (1999 est.)

Turks and Caicos Islands:
  NA

Tuvalu:
  NA

Uganda:
  110,000 (1999 est.)

Ukraine:
  4,000 (1999 est.)

United Arab Emirates:
  NA

United Kingdom:
  450 (1999 est.)

United States:
  20,000 (1999 est.)

Uruguay:
  150 (1999 est.)

Uzbekistan:
  less than 100 (1999 est.)

Vanuatu:
  NA

Venezuela:
  2,000 (1999 est.)

Vietnam:
  2,500 (1999 est.)

Virgin Islands:
  NA

Wallis and Futuna:
  NA

West Bank:
  NA

Western Sahara:
  NA

World:
  NA

Yemen:
  NA

Yugoslavia:
  NA

Zambia:
  99,000 (1999 est.)

Zimbabwe:
  160,000 (1999 est.)

Taiwan:
  NA

======================================================================

@HIV/AIDS - people living with HIV/AIDS



Afghanistan:
  NA

Albania:
  less than 100 (2000 est.)

Algeria:
  NA

American Samoa:
  NA

Andorra:
  NA

Angola:
  160,000 (1999 est.)

Anguilla:
  NA

Antigua and Barbuda:
  NA

Argentina:
  130,000 (1999 est.)

Armenia:
  less than 500 (1999 est.)

Aruba:
  NA

Australia:
  14,000 (1999 est.)

Austria:
  9,000 (1999 est.)

Azerbaijan:
  less than 500 (1999 est.)

Bahamas, The:
  6,900 (1999 est.)

Bahrain:
  NA

Bangladesh:
  13,000 (1999 est.)

Barbados:
  1,800 (1999 est.)

Belarus:
  14,000 (1999 est.)

Belgium:
  7,700 (1999 est.)

Belize:
  2,400 (1999 est.)

Benin:
  70,000 (1999 est.)

Bermuda:
  NA

Bhutan:
  less than 100 (1999 est.)

Bolivia:
  4,200 (1999 est.)

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  NA

Botswana:
  290,000 (1999 est.)

Brazil:
  540,000 (1999 est.)

British Virgin Islands:
  NA

Brunei:
  less than 100 (1999 est.)

Bulgaria:
  NA

Burkina Faso:
  350,000 (1999 est.)

Burma:
  530,000 (1999 est.)

Burundi:
  360,000 (1999 est.)

Cambodia:
  220,000 (1999 est.)

Cameroon:
  540,000 (1999 est.)

Canada:
  49,000 (1999 est.)

Cape Verde:
  NA

Cayman Islands:
  NA

Central African Republic:
  240,000 (1999 est.)

Chad:
  92,000 (1999 est.)

Chile:
  15,000 (1999 est.)

China:
  500,000 (1999 est.)

Christmas Island:
  NA

Cocos (Keeling) Islands:
  NA

Colombia:
  71,000 (1999 est.)

Comoros:
  NA

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  1.1 million (1999 est.)

Congo, Republic of the:
  86,000 (1999 est.)

Cook Islands:
  NA

Costa Rica:
  12,000 (1999 est.)

Cote d'Ivoire:
  760,000 (1999 est.)

Croatia:
  350 (1999 est.)

Cuba:
  1,950 (1999 est.)

Cyprus:
  400 (1999 est.)

Czech Republic:
  2,200 (1999 est.)

Denmark:
  4,300 (1999 est.)

Djibouti:
  37,000 (1999 est.)

Dominica:
  NA

Dominican Republic:
  130,000 (1999 est.)

Ecuador:
  19,000 (1999 est.)

Egypt:
  NA

El Salvador:
  20,000 (1999 est.)

Equatorial Guinea:
  1,100 (1999 est.)

Eritrea:
  NA

Estonia:
  less than 500 (1999 est.)

Ethiopia:
  3 million (1999 est.)

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas):
  NA

Faroe Islands:
  NA

Fiji:
  NA

Finland:
  1,100 (1999 est.)

France:
  130,000 (1999 est.)

French Guiana:
  NA

French Polynesia:
  NA

Gabon:
  23,000 (1999 est.)

Gambia, The:
  13,000 (1999 est.)

Gaza Strip:
  NA

Georgia:
  less than 500 (1999 est.)

Germany:
  37,000 (1999 est.)

Ghana:
  340,000 (1999 est.)

Gibraltar:
  NA

Greece:
  8,000 (1999 est.)

Greenland:
  100 (1999)

Grenada:
  NA

Guadeloupe:
  NA

Guam:
  NA

Guatemala:
  73,000 (1999 est.)

Guernsey:
  NA

Guinea:
  55,000 (1999 est.)

Guinea-Bissau:
  14,000 (1999 est.)

Guyana:
  15,000 (1999 est.)

Haiti:
  210,000 (1999 est.)

Holy See (Vatican City):
  NA

Honduras:
  63,000 (1999 est.)

Hong Kong:
  2,500 (1999 est.)

Hungary:
  2,500 (1999 est.)

Iceland:
  200 (1999 est.)

India:
  3.7 million (1999 est.)

Indonesia:
  52,000 (1999 est.)

Iran:
  NA

Iraq:
  NA

Ireland:
  2,200 (1999 est.)

Israel:
  2,400 (1999 est.)

Italy:
  95,000 (1999 est.)

Jamaica:
  9,900 (1999 est.)

Japan:
  10,000 (1999 est.)

Jersey:
  NA

Jordan:
  NA

Kazakhstan:
  3,500 (1999 est.)

Kenya:
  2.1 million (1999 est.)

Kiribati:
  NA

Korea, North:
  NA

Korea, South:
  3,800 (1999 est.)

Kuwait:
  NA

Kyrgyzstan:
  less than 100 (1999 est.)

Laos:
  1,400 (1999 est.)

Latvia:
  1,250 (1999 est.)

Lebanon:
  NA

Lesotho:
  240,000 (1999 est.)

Liberia:
  39,000 (1999 est.)

Libya:
  NA

Liechtenstein:
  NA

Lithuania:
  less than 500 (1999 est.)

Luxembourg:
  NA

Macau:
  NA

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  less than 100 (1999 est.)

Madagascar:
  11,000 (1999 est.)

Malawi:
  800,000 (1999 est.)

Malaysia:
  49,000 (1999 est.)

Maldives:
  NA

Mali:
  100,000 (1999 est.)

Malta:
  NA

Man, Isle of:
  NA

Marshall Islands:
  NA

Martinique:
  NA

Mauritania:
  6,600 (1999 est.)

Mauritius:
  NA

Mayotte:
  NA

Mexico:
  150,000 (1999 est.)

Micronesia, Federated States of:
  NA

Moldova:
  4,500 (1999 est.)

Monaco:
  NA

Mongolia:
  less than 100 (1999 est.)

Montserrat:
  NA

Morocco:
  NA

Mozambique:
  1.2 million (1999 est.)

Namibia:
  160,000 (1999 est.)

Nauru:
  NA

Nepal:
  34,000 (1999 est.)

Netherlands:
  15,000 (1999 est.)

Netherlands Antilles:
  NA

New Caledonia:
  NA

New Zealand:
  1,200 (1999 est.)

Nicaragua:
  4,900 (1999 est.)

Niger:
  64,000 (1999 est.)

Nigeria:
  2.7 million (1999 est.)

Niue:
  NA

Norfolk Island:
  NA

Northern Mariana Islands:
  NA

Norway:
  1,600 (1999 est.)

Oman:
  NA

Pakistan:
  74,000 (1999 est.)

Palau:
  NA

Panama:
  24,000 (1999 est.)

Papua New Guinea:
  5,400 (1999 est.)

Paraguay:
  3,000 (1999 est.)

Peru:
  48,000 (1999 est.)

Philippines:
  28,000 (1999 est.)

Pitcairn Islands:
  NA

Poland:
  NA

Portugal:
  36,000 (1999 est.)

Puerto Rico:
  NA

Qatar:
  NA

Reunion:
  NA

Romania:
  7,000 (1999 est.)

Russia:
  130,000 (1999 est.)

Rwanda:
  400,000 (1999 est.)

Saint Helena:
  NA

Saint Kitts and Nevis:
  NA

Saint Lucia:
  NA

Saint Pierre and Miquelon:
  NA

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:
  NA

Samoa:
  NA

San Marino:
  NA

Sao Tome and Principe:
  NA

Saudi Arabia:
  NA

Senegal:
  79,000 (1999 est.)

Seychelles:
  NA

Sierra Leone:
  68,000 (1999 est.)

Singapore:
  4,000 (1999 est.)

Slovakia:
  400 (1999 est.)

Slovenia:
  200 (1999 est.)

Solomon Islands:
  NA

Somalia:
  NA

South Africa:
  4.2 million (1999 est.)

Spain:
  120,000 (1999 est.)

Sri Lanka:
  7,500 (1999 est.)

Sudan:
  NA

Suriname:
  3,000 (1999 est.)

Svalbard:
  0 (2001)

Swaziland:
  130,000 (1999 est.)

Sweden:
  3,000 (1999 est.)

Switzerland:
  17,000 (1999 est.)

Syria:
  NA

Tajikistan:
  less than 100 (1999 est.)

Tanzania:
  1.3 million (1999 est.)

Thailand:
  755,000 (1999 est.)

Togo:
  130,000 (1999 est.)

Tokelau:
  NA

Tonga:
  NA

Trinidad and Tobago:
  7,800 (1999 est.)

Tunisia:
  NA

Turkey:
  NA

Turkmenistan:
  less than 100 (1999 est.)

Turks and Caicos Islands:
  NA

Tuvalu:
  NA

Uganda:
  820,000 (1999 est.)

Ukraine:
  240,000 (1999 est.)

United Arab Emirates:
  NA

United Kingdom:
  31,000 (1999 est.)

United States:
  850,000 (1999 est.)

Uruguay:
  6,000 (1999 est.)

Uzbekistan:
  less than 100 (1999 est.)

Vanuatu:
  NA

Venezuela:
  62,000 (1999 est.)

Vietnam:
  100,000 (1999 est.)

Virgin Islands:
  NA

Wake Island:
  NA

Wallis and Futuna:
  NA

West Bank:
  NA

Western Sahara:
  NA

World:
  NA

Yemen:
  NA

Yugoslavia:
  NA

Zambia:
  870,000 (1999 est.)

Zimbabwe:
  1.5 million (1999 est.)

Taiwan:
  NA

======================================================================

@Household income or consumption by




  Household income or consumption by percentage share

Country profile category: Economy

  A  B  C  D  E  F  G  H  I  J  K  L  M  N  O  P  Q  R  S  T  U  V  W
  Y  Z


Afghanistan:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Albania:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Algeria:
  lowest 10%:  2.8%

  highest 10%:  26.8% (1995)

American Samoa:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Andorra:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Angola:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Anguilla:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Antigua and Barbuda:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Argentina:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Armenia:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Aruba:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Australia:
  lowest 10%:  2%

  highest 10%:  25.4% (1994)

Azerbaijan:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Bahamas, The:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Bahrain:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Bangladesh:
  lowest 10%:  3.9%

  highest 10%:  28.6% (1995-96 est.)

Barbados:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Belarus:
  lowest 10%:  4.9%

  highest 10%:  19.4% (1993)

Belgium:
  lowest 10%:  3.7%

  highest 10%:  20.2% (1992)

Belize:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Benin:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Bermuda:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Bhutan:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Bolivia:
  lowest 10%:  2.3%

  highest 10%:  31.7% (1990)

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Botswana:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Brazil:
  lowest 10%:  1%

  highest 10%:  47.6% (1996)

British Virgin Islands:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Brunei:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Bulgaria:
  lowest 10%:  3.4%

  highest 10%:  22.5% (1995)

Burkina Faso:
  lowest 10%:  2.2%

  highest 10%:  39.5% (1994)

Burma:
  lowest 10%:  2.8%

  highest 10%:  32.4% (1998)

Burundi:
  lowest 10%:  3.4%

  highest 10%:  26.6% (1992)

Cambodia:
  lowest 10%:  2.9%

  highest 10%:  33.8% (1997)

Cameroon:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Canada:
  lowest 10%:  2.8%

  highest 10%:  23.8% (1994)

Cape Verde:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Cayman Islands:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Central African Republic:
  lowest 10%:  0.7%

  highest 10%:  47.7% (1993)

Chad:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Chile:
  lowest 10%:  1.2%

  highest 10%:  41.3% (1998)

China:
  lowest 10%:  2.4%

  highest 10%:  30.4% (1998)

Christmas Island:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Cocos (Keeling) Islands:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Colombia:
  lowest 10%:  1%

  highest 10%:  44% (1999)

Comoros:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Congo, Republic of the:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Cook Islands:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Costa Rica:
  lowest 10%:  1.3%

  highest 10%:  34.7% (1996)

Cote d'Ivoire:
  lowest 10%:  3.1%

  highest 10%:  28.8% (1995)

Croatia:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Cuba:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Cyprus:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Czech Republic:
  lowest 10%:  4.3%

  highest 10%:  22.4% (1996)

Denmark:
  lowest 10%:  2%

  highest 10%:  24% (2000 est.)

Djibouti:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Dominica:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Dominican Republic:
  lowest 10%:  1.6%

  highest 10%:  39.6% (1989)

Ecuador:
  lowest 10%:  2.2%

  highest 10%:  33.8% (1995)

Egypt:
  lowest 10%:  4.4%

  highest 10%:  25% (1995)

El Salvador:
  lowest 10%:  1.2%

  highest 10%:  38.3% (1995)

Equatorial Guinea:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Eritrea:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Estonia:
  lowest 10%:  3.2%

  highest 10%:  28.5% (1996)

Ethiopia:
  lowest 10%:  3%

  highest 10%:  33.7% (1995)

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas):
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Faroe Islands:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Fiji:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Finland:
  lowest 10%:  4.2%

  highest 10%:  21.6% (1991)

France:
  lowest 10%:  2.8%

  highest 10%:  25.1% (1995)

French Guiana:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

French Polynesia:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Gabon:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Gambia, The:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Gaza Strip:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Georgia:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Ghana:
  lowest 10%:  3.6%

  highest 10%:  26.1% (1997)

Gibraltar:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Greece:
  lowest 10%:  3%

  highest 10%:  25.3% (1993 est.)

Greenland:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Grenada:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Guadeloupe:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Guam:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Guatemala:
  lowest 10%:  0.6%

  highest 10%:  46.6% (1989)

Guernsey:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Guinea:
  lowest 10%:  2.6%

  highest 10%:  32% (1994)

Guinea-Bissau:
  lowest 10%:  0.5%

  highest 10%:  42.4% (1991)

Guyana:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Haiti:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Holy See (Vatican City):
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Honduras:
  lowest 10%:  1.2%

  highest 10%:  42.1% (1996)

Hong Kong:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Hungary:
  lowest 10%:  3.9%

  highest 10%:  24.8% (1996)

Iceland:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

India:
  lowest 10%:  3.5%

  highest 10%:  33.5% (1997)

Indonesia:
  lowest 10%:  3.6%

  highest 10%:  30.3% (1996)

Iran:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Iraq:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Ireland:
  lowest 10%:  2%

  highest 10%:  27.3% (1997)

Israel:
  lowest 10%:  2.8%

  highest 10%:  26.9% (1992)

Italy:
  lowest 10%:  3.5%

  highest 10%:  21.8% (1995)

Jamaica:
  lowest 10%:  2.9%

  highest 10%:  28.9% (1996)

Japan:
  lowest 10%:  4.8%

  highest 10%:  21.7% (1993)

Jersey:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Jordan:
  lowest 10%:  2.4%

  highest 10%:  34.7% (1991)

Kazakhstan:
  lowest 10%:  2.7%

  highest 10%:  26.3% (1996)

Kenya:
  lowest 10%:  1.8%

  highest 10%:  34.9% (1994)

Kiribati:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Korea, North:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Korea, South:
  lowest 10%:  2.9%

  highest 10%:  24.3% (1993)

Kuwait:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Kyrgyzstan:
  lowest 10%:  2.7%

  highest 10%:  31.7% (1997)

Laos:
  lowest 10%:  4.2%

  highest 10%:  26.4% (1992)

Latvia:
  lowest 10%:  2.9%

  highest 10%:  25.9% (1998)

Lebanon:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Lesotho:
  lowest 10%:  0.9%

  highest 10%:  43.4% (1986-87)

Liberia:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Libya:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Liechtenstein:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Lithuania:
  lowest 10%:  3.1%

  highest 10%:  25.6% (1996)

Luxembourg:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Macau:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Madagascar:
  lowest 10%:  1.9%

  highest 10%:  36.7% (1993)

Malawi:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Malaysia:
  lowest 10%:  1.4%

  highest 10%:  20.4% (1997 est.)

Maldives:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Mali:
  lowest 10%:  1.8%

  highest 10%:  40.4% (1994)

Malta:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Man, Isle of:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Marshall Islands:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Martinique:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Mauritania:
  lowest 10%:  2.3%

  highest 10%:  29.9% (1995)

Mauritius:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Mayotte:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Mexico:
  lowest 10%:  1.8%

  highest 10%:  36.6% (1996)

Micronesia, Federated States of:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Moldova:
  lowest 10%:  2.7%

  highest 10%:  25.8% (1992)

Monaco:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Mongolia:
  lowest 10%:  2.9%

  highest 10%:  24.5% (1995)

Montserrat:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Morocco:
  lowest 10%:  2.6%

  highest 10%:  30.9% (1998-99)

Mozambique:
  lowest 10%:  2.5%

  highest 10%:  31.7% (1996-97)

Namibia:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Nauru:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Nepal:
  lowest 10%:  3.2%

  highest 10%:  29.8% (1995-96)

Netherlands:
  lowest 10%:  2.8%

  highest 10%:  25.1% (1994)

Netherlands Antilles:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

New Caledonia:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

New Zealand:
  lowest 10%:  0.3%

  highest 10%:  29.8% (1991 est.)

Nicaragua:
  lowest 10%:  1.6%

  highest 10%:  39.8% (1993)

Niger:
  lowest 10%:  0.8%

  highest 10%:  35.4% (1995)

Nigeria:
  lowest 10%:  1.6%

  highest 10%:  40.8% (1996-97)

Niue:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Norfolk Island:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Northern Mariana Islands:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Norway:
  lowest 10%:  4.1%

  highest 10%:  21.8% (1995)

Oman:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Pakistan:
  lowest 10%:  4.1%

  highest 10%:  27.7% (1996)

Palau:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Panama:
  lowest 10%:  1.2%

  highest 10%:  35.7% (1997)

Papua New Guinea:
  lowest 10%:  1.7%

  highest 10%:  40.5% (1996)

Paraguay:
  lowest 10%:  0.7%

  highest 10%:  46.6% (1995)

Peru:
  lowest 10%:  1.9%

  highest 10%:  34.3% (1994)

Philippines:
  lowest 10%:  1.5%

  highest 10%:  39.3% (1998)

Pitcairn Islands:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Poland:
  lowest 10%:  3%

  highest 10%:  26.3% (1996)

Portugal:
  lowest 10%:  3.1%

  highest 10%:  28.4% (1995 est.)

Puerto Rico:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Qatar:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Reunion:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Romania:
  lowest 10%:  3.8%

  highest 10%:  20.2% (1992)

Russia:
  lowest 10%:  1.7%

  highest 10%:  38.7% (1998)

Rwanda:
  lowest 10%:  4.2%

  highest 10%:  24.2% (1983-85)

Saint Helena:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Saint Kitts and Nevis:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Saint Lucia:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Saint Pierre and Miquelon:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Samoa:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

San Marino:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Sao Tome and Principe:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Saudi Arabia:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Senegal:
  lowest 10%:  1.4%

  highest 10%:  42.8% (1991)

Seychelles:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Sierra Leone:
  lowest 10%:  0.5%

  highest 10%:  43.6% (1989)

Singapore:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Slovakia:
  lowest 10%:  5.1%

  highest 10%:  18.2% (1992)

Slovenia:
  lowest 10%:  3.2%

  highest 10%:  20.7% (1995)

Solomon Islands:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Somalia:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

South Africa:
  lowest 10%:  1.1%

  highest 10%:  45.9% (1994)

Spain:
  lowest 10%:  2.8%

  highest 10%:  25.2% (1990)

Sri Lanka:
  lowest 10%:  1.8%

  highest 10%:  39.7% (1995-96 est.)

Sudan:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Suriname:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Svalbard:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Swaziland:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Sweden:
  lowest 10%:  3.7%

  highest 10%:  20.1% (1992)

Switzerland:
  lowest 10%:  2.8%

  highest 10%:  25.2% (1992)

Syria:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Tajikistan:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Tanzania:
  lowest 10%:  2.9%

  highest 10%:  30.2% (1993)

Thailand:
  lowest 10%:  2.5%

  highest 10%:  37.1% (1992)

Togo:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Tokelau:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Tonga:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Trinidad and Tobago:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Tunisia:
  lowest 10%:  2.3%

  highest 10%:  30.7% (1990)

Turkey:
  lowest 10%:  2.3%

  highest 10%:  32.3% (1994)

Turkmenistan:
  lowest 10%:  2.6%

  highest 10%:  31.7% (1998)

Turks and Caicos Islands:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Tuvalu:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Uganda:
  lowest 10%:  3%

  highest 10%:  33.4% (1992)

Ukraine:
  lowest 10%:  3.9%

  highest 10%:  26.4% (1996)

United Arab Emirates:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

United Kingdom:
  lowest 10%:  2.6%

  highest 10%:  27.3% (1991)

United States:
  lowest 10%:  1.8%

  highest 10%:  30.5% (1997)

Uruguay:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Uzbekistan:
  lowest 10%:  3.1%

  highest 10%:  25.2% (1993)

Vanuatu:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Venezuela:
  lowest 10%:  1.5%

  highest 10%:  35.6% (1995)

Vietnam:
  lowest 10%:  3.5%

  highest 10%:  29% (1993)

Virgin Islands:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Wallis and Futuna:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

West Bank:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Western Sahara:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

World:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Yemen:
  lowest 10%:  2.3%

  highest 10%:  30.8% (1992)

Yugoslavia:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

Zambia:
  lowest 10%:  1.6%

  highest 10%:  39.2% (1995)

Zimbabwe:
  lowest 10%:  1.8%

  highest 10%:  46.9% (1990)

Taiwan:
  lowest 10%:  NA%

  highest 10%:  NA%

======================================================================

@Illicit drugs



Afghanistan:
  world's largest illicit opium producer, surpassing
  Burma (potential production in 1999 - 1,670 metric tons; cultivation
  in 1999 - 51,500 hectares, a 23% increase over 1998); a major source
  of hashish; increasing number of heroin-processing laboratories
  being set up in the country; major political factions in the country
  profit from drug trade

Albania:
  increasingly active transshipment point for Southwest Asian
  opiates, hashish, and cannabis transiting the Balkan route and - to
  a far lesser extent - cocaine from South America destined for
  Western Europe; limited opium and cannabis production; ethnic
  Albanian narcotrafficking organizations active and rapidly expanding
  in Europe

Angola:
  increasingly used as a transshipment point for cocaine and
  heroin destined for Western Europe and other African states

Anguilla:
  transshipment point for South American narcotics destined
  for the US and Europe

Antigua and Barbuda:
  considered a minor transshipment point for
  narcotics bound for the US and Europe; more significant as a
  drug-money-laundering center

Argentina:
  use as a transshipment country for cocaine headed for
  Europe and the US; increasing use as a money-laundering center;
  domestic consumption of drugs in urban centers is increasing

Armenia:
  illicit cultivator of cannabis mostly for domestic
  consumption; increasingly used as a transshipment point for illicit
  drugs - mostly opium and hashish - to Western Europe and the US via
  Iran, Central Asia, and Russia

Aruba:
  drug-money-laundering center and transit point for narcotics
  bound for the US and Europe

Australia:
  Tasmania is one of the world's major suppliers of licit
  opiate products; government maintains strict controls over areas of
  opium poppy cultivation and output of poppy straw concentrate

Austria:
  transshipment point for Southwest Asian heroin and South
  American cocaine destined for Western Europe

Azerbaijan:
  limited illicit cultivation of cannabis and opium poppy,
  mostly for CIS consumption; limited government eradication program;
  transshipment point for opiates via Iran, Central Asia, and Russia
  to Western Europe

Bahamas, The:
  transshipment point for cocaine and marijuana bound
  for US and Europe; banking industry vulnerable to money laundering

Bangladesh:
  transit country for illegal drugs produced in
  neighboring countries

Barbados:
  one of many Caribbean transshipment points for narcotics
  bound for Europe and the US

Belarus:
  limited cultivation of opium poppy and cannabis, mostly for
  the domestic market; transshipment point for illicit drugs to and
  via Russia, and to the Baltics and Western Europe

Belgium:
  growing producer of synthetic drugs; transit point for
  US-bound ecstasy; source of precursor chemicals for South American
  cocaine processors; transshipment point for cocaine, heroin,
  hashish, and marijuana entering Western Europe

Belize:
  minor transshipment point for cocaine; small-scale illicit
  producer of cannabis for the international drug trade; minor
  money-laundering center

Benin:
  transshipment point for narcotics associated with Nigerian
  trafficking organizations and most commonly destined for Western
  Europe and the US

Bolivia:
  world's third-largest cultivator of coca (after Colombia
  and Peru, a distant second) with an estimated 14,600 hectares under
  cultivation in 2000, a 33% decrease in overall cultivation of coca
  from 1999 levels; intermediate coca products and cocaine exported to
  or through Colombia, Brazil, Argentina, and Chile to the US and
  other international drug markets; eradication and alternative crop
  programs have slashed illicit coca cultivation during the BANZER
  administration beginning in 1997

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  minor transit point for marijuana and opiate
  trafficking routes to Western Europe

Brazil:
  limited illicit producer of cannabis, minor coca cultivation
  in the Amazon region, mostly used for domestic consumption;
  government has a large-scale eradication program to control
  cannabis; important transshipment country for Bolivian, Colombian,
  and Peruvian cocaine headed for the US and Europe; also used by
  traffickers as a way station for narcotics air transshipments
  between Peru and Colombia; upsurge in drug-related violence and
  weapons smuggling; important market for Bolivian, Peruvian, and
  Colombian cocaine

British Virgin Islands:
  transshipment point for South American
  narcotics destined for the US and Europe

Brunei:
  drug trafficking and illegally importing controlled
  substances are serious offenses in Brunei and carry a mandatory
  death penalty

Bulgaria:
  major European transshipment point for Southwest Asian
  heroin and, to a lesser degree, South American cocaine for the
  European market; limited producer of precursor chemicals

Burma:
  world's second largest producer of illicit opium, after
  Afghanistan (potential production in 1999 - 1,090 metric tons, down
  38% due to drought; cultivation in 1999 - 89,500 hectares, a 31%
  decline from 1998); surrender of drug warlord KHUN SA's Mong Tai
  Army in January 1996 was hailed by Rangoon as a major
  counternarcotics success, but lack of government will and ability to
  take on major narcotrafficking groups and lack of serious commitment
  against money laundering continues to hinder the overall antidrug
  effort; becoming a major source of methamphetamine for regional
  consumption

Cambodia:
  possible money laundering; narcotics-related corruption
  reportedly involving some in the government, military, and police;
  possible small-scale opium, heroin, and amphetamine production;
  large producer of cannabis for the international market

Canada:
  illicit producer of cannabis for the domestic drug market;
  use of hydroponics technology permits growers to plant large
  quantities of high-quality marijuana indoors; transit point for
  heroin and cocaine entering the US market

Cape Verde:
  used as a transshipment point for illicit drugs moving
  from Latin America and Africa destined for Western Europe

Cayman Islands:
  vulnerable to drug money laundering and drug
  transshipment to the US and Europe

Chile:
  a growing transshipment country for cocaine destined for the
  US and Europe; economic prosperity has made Chile more attractive to
  traffickers seeking to launder drug profits; imported precursors
  passed on to Bolivia; domestic cocaine consumption is rising

China:
  major transshipment point for heroin produced in the Golden
  Triangle; growing domestic drug abuse problem; source country for
  chemical precursors and methamphetamine

Colombia:
  illicit producer of coca, opium poppies, and cannabis;
  world's leading coca cultivator (cultivation of coca in 1999 -
  122,500 hectares, a 20.3% increase over 1998); cultivation of opium
  in 1999 increased to 7,500 hectares from 6,100 hectares in 1998;
  potential production of opium in 1999 - 75 metric tons, a 25%
  increase over 1998; potential production of heroin in 1999 - nearly
  8 metric tons, as compared with 6 tons in 1998; the world's largest
  processor of coca derivatives into cocaine; supplier of about 90% of
  the cocaine to the US and the great majority of cocaine to other
  international drug markets, and an important supplier of heroin to
  the US market; active aerial eradication program

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  illicit producer of cannabis,
  mostly for domestic consumption

Costa Rica:
  transshipment country for cocaine and heroin from South
  America; illicit production of cannabis on small, scattered plots;
  domestic cocaine consumption is rising, particularly crack cocaine;
  those who previously only trafficked are now becoming users

Cote d'Ivoire:
  illicit producer of cannabis, mostly for local
  consumption; transshipment point for Southwest and Southeast Asian
  heroin to Europe and occasionally to the US, and for Latin American
  cocaine destined for Europe

Croatia:
  transit point along the Balkan route for Southwest Asian
  heroin to Western Europe; a minor transit point for maritime
  shipments of South American cocaine bound for Western Europe

Cuba:
  territorial waters and air space serve as transshipment zone
  for cocaine bound for the US and Europe; established the death
  penalty for certain drug-related crimes in 1999

Cyprus:
  minor transit point for heroin and hashish via air routes
  and container traffic to Europe, especially from Lebanon and Turkey;
  some cocaine transits as well

Czech Republic:
  major transshipment point for Southwest Asian heroin
  and minor transit point for Latin American cocaine to Western
  Europe; domestic consumption - especially of locally produced
  synthetic drugs - on the rise

Dominica:
  transshipment point for narcotics bound for the US and
  Europe; minor cannabis producer; banking industry is vulnerable to
  money laundering

Dominican Republic:
  transshipment point for South American drugs
  destined for the US and Europe; has become a transshipment point for
  ecstasy from the Netherlands and Belgium destined for US and Canada

Ecuador:
  significant transit country for cocaine and derivatives of
  coca originating in Colombia and Peru; importer of precursor
  chemicals used in production of illicit narcotics; important
  money-laundering hub; increased activity on the northern frontier by
  trafficking groups and Colombian insurgents

Egypt:
  a transit point for Southwest Asian and Southeast Asian
  heroin and opium moving to Europe, Africa, and the US; popular
  transit stop for Nigerian couriers

El Salvador:
  transshipment point for cocaine; marijuana produced for
  local consumption; domestic drug abuse on the rise

Estonia:
  transshipment point for opiates and cannabis from Southwest
  Asia and the Caucasus via Russia, cocaine from Latin America to
  Western Europe and Scandinavia, and synthetic drugs from Western
  Europe to Scandinavia; possible precursor manufacturing and/or
  trafficking; synthetic drug production growing, trafficked to
  Russia, Baltics, Finland

Ethiopia:
  transit hub for heroin originating in Southwest and
  Southeast Asia and destined for Europe and North America as well as
  cocaine destined for markets in southern Africa; cultivates qat
  (khat) for local use and regional export, principally to Djibouti
  and Somalia

France:
  transshipment point for and consumer of South American
  cocaine, Southwest Asian heroin, and European synthetics

French Guiana:
  small amount of marijuana grown for local
  consumption; minor transshipment point to Europe

Georgia:
  limited cultivation of cannabis and opium poppy, mostly for
  domestic consumption; used as transshipment point for opiates via
  Central Asia to Western Europe and Russia

Germany:
  source of precursor chemicals for South American cocaine
  processors; transshipment point for and consumer of Southwest Asian
  heroin, Latin American cocaine, and European-produced synthetic drugs

Ghana:
  illicit producer of cannabis for the international drug
  trade; transit hub for Southwest and Southeast Asian heroin and
  South American cocaine destined for Europe and the US

Greece:
  a gateway to Europe for traffickers smuggling cannabis and
  heroin from the Middle East and Southwest Asia to the West and
  precursor chemicals to the East; some South American cocaine
  transits or is consumed in Greece

Grenada:
  small-scale cannabis cultivation; lesser transshipment
  point for marijuana and cocaine to US

Guatemala:
  transit country for cocaine and heroin; minor producer of
  illicit opium poppy and cannabis for the international drug trade;
  proximity to Mexico makes Guatemala a major staging area for drugs
  (cocaine and heroin shipments); money laundering is probably
  increasing

Guyana:
  transshipment point for narcotics from South America -
  primarily Venezuela - to Europe and the US; producer of cannabis

Haiti:
  major Caribbean transshipment point for cocaine en route to
  the US and Europe; vulnerable to money laundering

Honduras:
  transshipment point for drugs and narcotics; illicit
  producer of cannabis, cultivated on small plots and used principally
  for local consumption; corruption is a major problem; vulnerable to
  money laundering

Hong Kong:
  a hub for Southeast Asian heroin and regional stimulants
  trade; transshipment and money-laundering center; increasing
  indigenous amphetamine abuse

Hungary:
  major transshipment point for Southwest Asian heroin and
  cannabis and transit point for South American cocaine destined for
  Western Europe; limited producer of precursor chemicals,
  particularly for amphetamine and methamphetamine

India:
  world's largest producer of licit opium for the
  pharmaceutical trade, but an undetermined quantity of opium is
  diverted to illicit international drug markets; transit country for
  illicit narcotics produced in neighboring countries; illicit
  producer of hashish and methaqualone

Indonesia:
  illicit producer of cannabis largely for domestic use;
  possible growing role as transshipment point for Golden Triangle
  heroin

Iran:
  despite substantial interdiction efforts, Iran remains a key
  transshipment point for Southwest Asian heroin to Europe; domestic
  consumption of narcotics remains a persistent problem and Iranian
  press reports estimate that there are at least 1.2 million drug
  users in the country

Ireland:
  transshipment point for and consumer of hashish from North
  Africa to the UK and Netherlands and of European-produced synthetic
  drugs; minor transshipment point for heroin and cocaine destined for
  Western Europe

Israel:
  increasingly concerned about cocaine and heroin abuse; drugs
  arrive in country from Lebanon and increasingly Jordan

Italy:
  important gateway for and consumer of Latin American cocaine
  and Southwest Asian heroin entering the European market

Jamaica:
  major transshipment point for cocaine from South America to
  North America and Europe; illicit cultivation of cannabis;
  government has an active manual cannabis eradication program;
  corruption is a major concern

Kazakhstan:
  significant illicit cultivation of cannabis and limited
  cultivation of opium poppy and ephedra (for the drug ephedrone);
  limited government eradication program; cannabis consumed largely in
  the CIS; used as transshipment point for illicit drugs to Russia,
  North America, and Western Europe from Southwest Asia; developing
  heroin addiction problem

Kenya:
  widespread harvesting of small plots of marijuana; transit
  country for South Asian heroin destined for Europe and North
  America; Indian methaqualone also transits on way to South Africa

Kyrgyzstan:
  limited illicit cultivator of cannabis and opium poppy,
  mostly for CIS consumption; limited government eradication program;
  increasingly used as transshipment point for illicit drugs to Russia
  and Western Europe from Southwest Asia

Laos:
  world's third-largest illicit opium producer (estimated
  cultivation in 1999 - 21,800 hectares, a 16% decrease over 1998;
  estimated potential production in 1999 - 140 metric tons, about the
  same as in 1998); potential heroin producer; transshipment point for
  heroin and methamphetamine produced in Burma; illicit producer of
  cannabis

Latvia:
  transshipment point for opiates and cannabis from Central
  and Southwest Asia to Western Europe and Scandinavia and Latin
  American cocaine and some synthetics from Western Europe to CIS;
  limited production of illicit amphetamine, ephedrine, and ecstasy
  for export

Lebanon:
  inconsequential producer of hashish; a Lebanese/Syrian
  eradication campaign started in the early 1990s has practically
  eliminated the opium and cannabis crops

Liberia:
  increasingly a transshipment point for Southeast and
  Southwest Asian heroin and South American cocaine for the European
  and US markets

Liechtenstein:
  multilateral organizations engaged in issuing
  international guidelines for financial sector oversight have found
  gaps in Liechtenstein's financial services controls that make it
  vulnerable to money laundering

Lithuania:
  transshipment point for opiates and other illicit drugs
  from Southwest Asia, Latin America, and Western Europe to Western
  Europe and Scandinavia; limited production of methamphetamine and
  ecstasy

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  increasing transshipment
  point for Southwest Asian heroin and hashish; minor transit point
  for South American cocaine destined for Europe

Madagascar:
  illicit producer of cannabis (cultivated and wild
  varieties) used mostly for domestic consumption; transshipment point
  for heroin

Malaysia:
  transit point for some illicit drugs; drug trafficking
  prosecuted vigorously and carries severe penalties

Malta:
  minor transshipment point for hashish from North Africa to
  Western Europe

Martinique:
  transshipment point for cocaine and marijuana bound for
  the US and Europe

Mauritius:
  minor consumer and transshipment point for heroin from
  South Asia; small amounts of cannabis produced and consumed locally

Mexico:
  illicit cultivation of opium poppy (cultivation in 2000 -
  1,900 hectares; potential heroin production - 2.4 metric tons) and
  cannabis cultivation in 2000 - 3,900 hectares; government
  eradication efforts have been key in keeping illicit crop levels
  low; major supplier of heroin and marijuana to the US market;
  continues as the primary transshipment country for US-bound cocaine
  from South America; two major drug syndicates control majority of
  drug trafficking throughout the country; primary supplier of
  methamphetamine to the US market; growing producer and distributor
  of ecstasy

Moldova:
  limited cultivation of opium poppy and cannabis, mostly for
  CIS consumption; transshipment point for illicit drugs from
  Southwest Asia via Central Asia to Russia, Western Europe, and
  possibly the US

Montserrat:
  transshipment point for South American narcotics
  destined for the US and Europe

Morocco:
  illicit producer of hashish; trafficking on the increase
  for both domestic and international drug markets; shipments of
  hashish mostly directed to Western Europe; transit point for cocaine
  from South America destined for Western Europe

Mozambique:
  Southern African transit point for South Asian hashish,
  South Asian heroin, and South American cocaine probably destined for
  the European and South African markets; producer of cannabis (for
  local consumption) and methaqualone (for export to South Africa)

Nepal:
  illicit producer of cannabis for the domestic and
  international drug markets; transit point for opiates from Southeast
  Asia to the West

Netherlands:
  major European producer of illicit amphetamine and
  other synthetic drugs; important gateway for cocaine, heroin, and
  hashish entering Europe; major source of US-bound ecstasy

Netherlands Antilles:
  money-laundering center; transshipment point
  for South American drugs bound for the US and Europe

Nicaragua:
  transshipment point for cocaine destined for the US and
  transshipment point for arms-for-drugs dealing

Nigeria:
  facilitates movement of heroin en route from Southeast and
  Southwest Asia to Western Europe and North America; increasingly a
  transit route for cocaine from South America intended for European,
  East Asian, and North American markets

Pakistan:
  key transit area for Southwest Asian heroin moving to
  Western markets; narcotics still move from Afghanistan into
  Balochistan Province

Panama:
  major cocaine transshipment point and major drug
  money-laundering center; no recent signs of coca cultivation;
  monitoring of financial transactions is improving; official
  corruption remains a major problem; Panama was cited by the
  Financial Action Task Force (FATF) an international organization
  that includes the US Government, for its lack of cooperation in the
  fight against international money laundering

Paraguay:
  illicit producer of cannabis, most or all of which is
  consumed in South America; transshipment country for Andean cocaine
  headed for Southern Cone markets and Europe

Peru:
  until 1996 the world's largest coca leaf producer, Peru
  reduced the area of coca under cultivation by 64% to 34,200 hectares
  between 1996 and the end of 2000; much of the cocaine base is
  shipped to neighboring Colombia for processing into cocaine for the
  international drug market; increasing amounts of finished cocaine,
  however, are being shipped to Europe or to Brazil and Bolivia for
  use in the Southern Cone or transshipped to world markets

Philippines:
  exports locally produced marijuana and hashish to East
  Asia, the US, and other Western markets; serves as a transit point
  for heroin and crystal methamphetamine

Poland:
  major illicit producer of amphetamine for the international
  market; minor transshipment point for Asian and Latin American
  illicit drugs to Western Europe

Portugal:
  important gateway country for Latin American cocaine and
  Southwest Asian heroin entering the European market; transshipment
  point for hashish from North Africa to Europe; consumer of Southwest
  Asian heroin

Romania:
  important transshipment point for Southwest Asian heroin
  transiting the Balkan route and small amounts of Latin American
  cocaine bound for Western Europe

Russia:
  limited cultivation of illicit cannabis and opium poppy and
  producer of amphetamine, mostly for domestic consumption; government
  has active eradication program; increasingly used as transshipment
  point for Southwest and Southeast Asian opiates and cannabis and
  Latin American cocaine to Western Europe, possibly to the US, and
  growing domestic market; major source of heroin precursor chemicals;
  corruption and organized crime are major concerns; heroin an
  increasing threat in domestic drug market

Saint Kitts and Nevis:
  transshipment point for South American drugs
  destined for the US and Europe

Saint Lucia:
  transit point for South American drugs destined for the
  US and Europe

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:
  transshipment point for South
  American drugs destined for the US and Europe

Saudi Arabia:
  death penalty for traffickers; increasing consumption
  of heroin and cocaine

Senegal:
  transshipment point for Southwest and Southeast Asian
  heroin moving to Europe and North America; illicit cultivator of
  cannabis

Singapore:
  as a transportation and financial services hub, Singapore
  is vulnerable, despite strict laws and enforcement, to use as a
  transit point for Golden Triangle heroin and as a venue for money
  laundering

Slovakia:
  transshipment point for Southwest Asian heroin bound for
  Western Europe

Slovenia:
  minor transit point for cocaine and Southwest Asian heroin
  bound for Western Europe, and for precursor chemicals

South Africa:
  transshipment center for heroin, hashish, marijuana,
  and possibly cocaine; cocaine consumption on the rise; world's
  largest market for illicit methaqualone, usually imported illegally
  from India through various east African countries; illicit
  cultivation of marijuana

Spain:
  key European gateway country for Latin American cocaine and
  North African hashish entering the European market; transshipment
  point for and consumer of Southwest Asian heroin

Suriname:
  transshipment point for South American drugs destined for
  Europe and Brazil; transshipment point for arms-for-drugs dealing

Switzerland:
  because of more stringent government regulations, used
  significantly less as a money-laundering center; transit country for
  and consumer of South American cocaine and Southwest Asian heroin

Syria:
  a transit point for opiates and hashish bound for regional
  and Western markets

Tajikistan:
  major transshipment zone for heroin and opiates from
  Afghanistan going to Russia and Western Europe; limited illicit
  cultivation of cannabis, mostly for domestic consumption

Tanzania:
  growing role in transshipment of Southwest and Southeast
  Asian heroin and South American cocaine destined for South African,
  European, and US markets and of South Asian methaqualone bound for
  Southern Africa

Thailand:
  a minor producer of opium, heroin, and marijuana; illicit
  transit point for heroin en route to the international drug market
  from Burma and Laos; eradication efforts have reduced the area of
  cannabis cultivation and shifted some production to neighboring
  countries; opium poppy cultivation has been reduced by eradication
  efforts; also a drug money-laundering center; minor role in
  amphetamine production for regional consumption; increasing
  indigenous abuse of methamphetamine

Togo:
  transit hub for Nigerian heroin and cocaine traffickers

Trinidad and Tobago:
  transshipment point for South American drugs
  destined for the US and Europe; producer of cannabis

Turkey:
  key transit route for Southwest Asian heroin to Western
  Europe and - to a far lesser extent the US - via air, land, and sea
  routes; major Turkish, Iranian, and other international trafficking
  organizations operate out of Istanbul; laboratories to convert
  imported morphine base into heroin are in remote regions of Turkey
  as well as near Istanbul; government maintains strict controls over
  areas of legal opium poppy cultivation and output of poppy straw
  concentrate

Turkmenistan:
  limited illicit cultivator of opium poppy, mostly for
  domestic consumption; limited government eradication program;
  increasingly used as transshipment point for illicit drugs from
  Southwest Asia to Russia and Western Europe; also a transshipment
  point for acetic anhydride destined for Afghanistan

Turks and Caicos Islands:
  transshipment point for South American
  narcotics destined for the US and Europe

Ukraine:
  limited cultivation of cannabis and opium poppy, mostly for
  CIS consumption; some synthetic drug production for export to West;
  limited government eradication program; used as transshipment point
  for opiates and other illicit drugs from Africa, Latin America, and
  Turkey, and to Europe and Russia; drug-related money laundering a
  minor, but growing, problem

United Arab Emirates:
  growing role as heroin transshipment and
  money-laundering center due to its proximity to southwest Asian
  producing countries and the bustling free trade zone in Dubai

United Kingdom:
  gateway country for Latin American cocaine entering
  the European market; major consumer of synthetic drugs, producer of
  limited amounts of synthetic drugs and synthetic precursor
  chemicals; major consumer of Southwest Asian heroin;
  money-laundering center

United States:
  consumer of cocaine shipped from Colombia through
  Mexico and the Caribbean; consumer of heroin, marijuana, and
  increasingly methamphetamine from Mexico; consumer of high-quality
  Southeast Asian heroin; illicit producer of cannabis, marijuana,
  depressants, stimulants, hallucinogens, and methamphetamine;
  money-laundering center

Uzbekistan:
  limited illicit cultivation of cannabis and very small
  amounts of opium poppy, mostly for domestic consumption, almost
  entirely eradicated by an effective government eradication program;
  increasingly used as transshipment point for illicit drugs from
  Afghanistan to Russia and Western Europe and for acetic anhydride
  destined for Afghanistan

Venezuela:
  illicit producer of opium for the international drug
  trade on a small scale; however, large quantities of cocaine,
  heroin, and marijuana transit the country from Colombia bound for US
  and Europe; important money-laundering center; active eradication
  program primarily targeting opium; increasing signs of drug-related
  activities by Colombian insurgents on border

Vietnam:
  minor producer of opium poppy with 2,100 hectares
  cultivated in 1999, capable of producing 11 metric tons of opium;
  probable minor transit point for Southeast Asian heroin;
  opium/heroin/methamphetamine addiction problems

Yugoslavia:
  transshipment point for Southwest Asian heroin moving to
  Western Europe on the Balkan route

Zambia:
  transshipment point for moderate amounts of methaqualone,
  small amounts of heroin, and cocaine bound for Southern Africa and
  possibly Europe; regional money-laundering center

Zimbabwe:
  significant transit point for African cannabis and South
  Asian heroin, mandrax, and methamphetamines destined for the South
  African and European markets

Taiwan:
  transit point for heroin and methamphetamine; major problem
  with domestic consumption of methamphetamine and heroin

======================================================================

@Imports



Afghanistan:
  $150 million (1996 est.)

Albania:
  $1 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Algeria:
  $9.2 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

American Samoa:
  $471 million (1996)

Andorra:
  $1.077 billion (c.i.f., 1998)

Angola:
  $2.5 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Anguilla:
  $57.6 million (1998)

Antigua and Barbuda:
  $330 million (1998)

Argentina:
  $25.2 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Armenia:
  $913 million (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Aruba:
  $2.5 billion (2000 est.)

Australia:
  $77 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Austria:
  $65.6 billion (2000 est.)

Azerbaijan:
  $1.4 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Bahamas, The:
  $1.73 billion (2000 est.)

Bahrain:
  $4.2 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Bangladesh:
  $8.1 billion (2000)

Barbados:
  $800.3 million (2000 est.)

Belarus:
  $8.3 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Belgium:
  $166 billion (c.i.f., 2000)

Belize:
  $413 million (c.i.f., 2000 est.)

Benin:
  $566 million (c.i.f., 1999)

Bermuda:
  $739 million (2000 est.)

Bhutan:
  $269 million (c.i.f., 2000 est.)

Bolivia:
  $1.86 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  $2.45 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Botswana:
  $2.2 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Brazil:
  $55.8 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

British Virgin Islands:
  $220 million (2000 est.)

Brunei:
  $1.3 billion (c.i.f., 1999 est.)

Bulgaria:
  $5.9 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Burkina Faso:
  $610 million (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Burma:
  $2.5 billion (f.o.b., 1999)

Burundi:
  $110 million (f.o.b., 2000)

Cambodia:
  $1.3 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Cameroon:
  $1.6 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Canada:
  $238.2 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Cape Verde:
  $250 million (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Cayman Islands:
  $507.6 million (1998)

Central African Republic:
  $154 million (f.o.b., 2000)

Chad:
  $223 million (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Chile:
  $17 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

China:
  $197 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Christmas Island:
  $NA

Cocos (Keeling) Islands:
  $NA

Colombia:
  $12.4 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Comoros:
  $55.1 million (f.o.b., 1999 est.)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  $660 million (c.i.f., 2000 est.)

Congo, Republic of the:
  $870 million (f.o.b., 2000)

Cook Islands:
  $85 million (c.i.f., 1994)

Costa Rica:
  $5.9 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Cote d'Ivoire:
  $2.5 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Croatia:
  $7.8 billion (c.i.f., 1999)

Cuba:
  $3.4 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Cyprus:
  Greek Cypriot area: $3.6 billion (f.o.b., 1999 est.);
  Turkish Cypriot area: $402 million (f.o.b., 1999)

Czech Republic:
  $31.4 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Denmark:
  $43.6 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Djibouti:
  $440 million (f.o.b., 1999 est.)

Dominica:
  $126 million (2000 est.)

Dominican Republic:
  $9.6 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Ecuador:
  $3.4 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Egypt:
  $17 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

El Salvador:
  $4.6 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Equatorial Guinea:
  $300 million (f.o.b., 1999)

Eritrea:
  $560 million (c.i.f., 1999)

Estonia:
  $4 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Ethiopia:
  $1.25 billion (f.o.b., 1999)

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas):
  $24.7 million (1995)

Faroe Islands:
  $469 million (c.i.f., 1999)

Fiji:
  $653 million (f.o.b., 1999)

Finland:
  $32.7 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

France:
  $320 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

French Guiana:
  $625 million (c.i.f., 1997)

French Polynesia:
  $749 million (f.o.b., 1999)

Gabon:
  $1 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Gambia, The:
  $202.5 million (f.o.b., 1999)

Gaza Strip:
  $2.5 billion (c.i.f., 1998 est.) (includes West Bank)

Georgia:
  $898 million (2000 est.)

Germany:
  $505 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Ghana:
  $2.2 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Gibraltar:
  $492 million (c.i.f., 1997)

Greece:
  $33.9 billion (c.i.f., 2000)

Greenland:
  $400 million (c.i.f., 1999)

Grenada:
  $217.5 million (2000 est.)

Guadeloupe:
  $1.7 billion (c.i.f., 1997)

Guam:
  $203 million (f.o.b., 1999 est.)

Guatemala:
  $4.4 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Guernsey:
  $NA

Guinea:
  $634 million (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Guinea-Bissau:
  $55.2 million (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Guyana:
  $660 million (c.i.f., 2000 est.)

Haiti:
  $1.2 billion (c.i.f., 1999)

Honduras:
  $2.8 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Hong Kong:
  $215 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Hungary:
  $27.6 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Iceland:
  $2.2 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

India:
  $60.8 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Indonesia:
  $40.4 billion (c.i.f., 2000 est.)

Iran:
  $15 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Iraq:
  $13.8 billion (2000 est.)

Ireland:
  $45.7 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Israel:
  $35.1 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Italy:
  $231.4 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Jamaica:
  $3 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Japan:
  $355 billion (c.i.f., 2000)

Jersey:
  $NA

Jordan:
  $4 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Kazakhstan:
  $6.9 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Kenya:
  $3 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Kiribati:
  $44 million (c.i.f., 1999)

Korea, North:
  $960 million (c.i.f., 1999 est.)

Korea, South:
  $160.5 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Kuwait:
  $7.6 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Kyrgyzstan:
  $579 million (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Laos:
  $540 million (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Latvia:
  $3.2 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Lebanon:
  $6.2 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Lesotho:
  $700 million (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Liberia:
  $170 million (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Libya:
  $7.6 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Liechtenstein:
  $917.3 million (1996)

Lithuania:
  $4.9 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Luxembourg:
  $10 billion (c.i.f., 2000)

Macau:
  $2.4 billion (c.i.f., 2000 est.)

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  $2 billion (f.o.b., 2000
  est.)

Madagascar:
  $693 million (f.o.b., 1998)

Malawi:
  $435 million (f.o.b., 2000)

Malaysia:
  $82.6 billion (2000 est.)

Maldives:
  $372 million (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Mali:
  $575 million (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Malta:
  $2.6 billion (f.o.b., 1999)

Man, Isle of:
  $NA

Marshall Islands:
  $58 million (f.o.b., 1997 est.)

Martinique:
  $2 billion (c.i.f., 1997)

Mauritania:
  $305 million (f.o.b., 1999)

Mauritius:
  $2.3 billion (f.o.b., 1999)

Mayotte:
  $141.3 million (f.o.b., 1997)

Mexico:
  $176 billion (f.o.b., 2000), includes in-bond industries
  (assembly plant operations)

Micronesia, Federated States of:
  $168 million (c.i.f., 1996 est.)

Moldova:
  $761 million (f.o.b., 2000)

Monaco:
  $NA; full customs integration with France, which collects
  and rebates Monegasque trade duties; also participates in EU market
  system through customs union with France

Mongolia:
  $510.7 million (c.i.f., 1999)

Montserrat:
  $26 million (1998)

Morocco:
  $12.2 billion (f.o.b., 1999 est.)

Mozambique:
  $1.4 billion (c.i.f., 2000 est.)

Namibia:
  $1.6 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Nauru:
  $21.1 million (c.i.f., 1991)

Nepal:
  $1.2 billion (f.o.b., 1998)

Netherlands:
  $201.2 billion (c.i.f., 2000 est.)

Netherlands Antilles:
  $1.5 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

New Caledonia:
  $843 million (f.o.b., 1999)

New Zealand:
  $14.3 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Nicaragua:
  $1.6 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Niger:
  $317 million (f.o.b., 1999)

Nigeria:
  $10.7 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Niue:
  $4.1 million (c.i.f., 1989)

Norfolk Island:
  $17.9 million (c.i.f., FY91/92)

Northern Mariana Islands:
  $NA

Norway:
  $35.2 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Oman:
  $4.5 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Pakistan:
  $9.6 billion (f.o.b., FY99/00)

Palau:
  $126 million (f.o.b., FY99/00)

Panama:
  $6.9 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Papua New Guinea:
  $1 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Paraguay:
  $3.3 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Peru:
  $7.4 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Philippines:
  $35 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Pitcairn Islands:
  $NA

Poland:
  $42.7 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Portugal:
  $41 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Puerto Rico:
  $27 billion (c.i.f., 2000)

Qatar:
  $3.8 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Reunion:
  $2.5 billion (c.i.f., 1997)

Romania:
  $11.9 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Russia:
  $44.2 billion (2000 est.)

Rwanda:
  $245.9 million (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Saint Helena:
  $14.434 million (c.i.f., 1995)

Saint Kitts and Nevis:
  $151.5 million (2000 est.)

Saint Lucia:
  $319.4 million (2000 est.)

Saint Pierre and Miquelon:
  $55 million (f.o.b., 1999)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:
  $185.6 million (2000 est.)

Samoa:
  $90 million (f.o.b., 2000)

San Marino:
  trade data are included with the statistics for Italy

Sao Tome and Principe:
  $40 million (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Saudi Arabia:
  $30.1 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Senegal:
  $1.3 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Seychelles:
  $440 million (c.i.f., 1999)

Sierra Leone:
  $145 million (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Singapore:
  $127 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Slovakia:
  $12.8 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Slovenia:
  $9.9 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Solomon Islands:
  $152 million (f.o.b., 1999 est.)

Somalia:
  $314 million (f.o.b., 1999 est.)

South Africa:
  $27.6 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Spain:
  $153.9 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Sri Lanka:
  $6.1 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Sudan:
  $1.2 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Suriname:
  $525 million (f.o.b., 1999)

Svalbard:
  $NA

Swaziland:
  $928 million (f.o.b., 2000)

Sweden:
  $80 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Switzerland:
  $91.6 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Syria:
  $3.5 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Tajikistan:
  $782 million (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Tanzania:
  $1.57 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Thailand:
  $61.8 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Togo:
  $452 million (f.o.b., 2000)

Tokelau:
  $323,400 (c.i.f., 1983)

Tonga:
  $69 million (f.o.b., 1998)

Trinidad and Tobago:
  $3 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Tunisia:
  $8.4 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Turkey:
  $55.7 billion (c.i.f., 2000 est.)

Turkmenistan:
  $1.65 billion (c.i.f., 2000 est.)

Turks and Caicos Islands:
  $46.6 million (1993)

Tuvalu:
  $4.4 million (c.i.f., 1989)

Uganda:
  $1.1 billion (f.o.b., 1999)

Ukraine:
  $15 billion (2000 est.)

United Arab Emirates:
  $34 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

United Kingdom:
  $324 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

United States:
  $1.223 trillion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Uruguay:
  $3.4 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Uzbekistan:
  $2.6 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Vanuatu:
  $77.2 million (f.o.b., 1999)

Venezuela:
  $14.7 billion (f.o.b., 2000)

Vietnam:
  $15.2 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Virgin Islands:
  $NA

Wallis and Futuna:
  $300,000 (f.o.b., 1999)

West Bank:
  $2.5 billion (includes Gaza Strip) (c.i.f., 1998 est.)

Western Sahara:
  $NA

World:
  $6 trillion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Yemen:
  $2.7 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Yugoslavia:
  $3.3 billion (1999)

Zambia:
  $1.05 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Zimbabwe:
  $1.3 billion (f.o.b., 2000 est.)

Taiwan:
  $140.01 billion (c.i.f., 2000)

======================================================================

@Imports - commodities



Afghanistan:
  capital goods, food and petroleum products; most
  consumer goods

Albania:
  machinery and equipment, foodstuffs, textiles, chemicals

Algeria:
  capital goods, food and beverages, consumer goods

American Samoa:
  materials for canneries 56%, food 8%, petroleum
  products 7%, machinery and parts 6%

Andorra:
  consumer goods, food, electricity

Angola:
  machinery and electrical equipment, vehicles and spare
  parts; medicines, food, textiles, military goods

Anguilla:
  NA

Antigua and Barbuda:
  food and live animals, machinery and transport
  equipment, manufactures, chemicals, oil

Argentina:
  machinery and equipment, motor vehicles, chemicals, metal
  manufactures, plastics

Armenia:
  natural gas, petroleum, tobacco products, foodstuffs,
  diamonds

Aruba:
  machinery and electrical equipment, crude oil for refining
  and reexport, chemicals; foodstuffs

Australia:
  machinery and transport equipment, computers and office
  machines, telecommunication equipment and parts; crude oil and
  petroleum products

Austria:
  machinery and equipment, chemicals, metal goods, oil and
  oil products; foodstuffs

Azerbaijan:
  machinery and equipment, foodstuffs, metals, chemicals

Bahamas, The:
  foodstuffs, manufactured goods, crude oil, vehicles,
  electronics

Bahrain:
  nonoil 59%, crude oil 41%

Bangladesh:
  machinery and equipment, chemicals, iron and steel,
  textiles, raw cotton, food, crude oil and petroleum products, cement

Barbados:
  consumer goods, machinery, foodstuffs, construction
  materials, chemicals, fuel, electrical components

Belarus:
  mineral products, machinery and equipment, metals,
  chemicals, foodstuffs

Belgium:
  machinery and equipment, chemicals, metals and metal
  products

Belize:
  machinery and transportation equipment, manufactured goods;
  food, beverages, tobacco; fuels, chemicals, pharmaceuticals

Benin:
  foodstuffs, tobacco, petroleum products, capital goods

Bermuda:
  machinery and transport equipment, construction materials,
  chemicals, food and live animals

Bhutan:
  fuel and lubricants, grain, machinery and parts, vehicles,
  fabrics, rice

Bolivia:
  capital goods, raw materials and semi-manufactures,
  chemicals, petroleum, food

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  NA

Botswana:
  foodstuffs, machinery and transport equipment, textiles,
  petroleum products

Brazil:
  machinery and equipment, chemical products, oil, electricity

British Virgin Islands:
  building materials, automobiles, foodstuffs,
  machinery

Brunei:
  machinery and transport equipment, manufactured goods, food,
  chemicals

Bulgaria:
  fuels, minerals, and raw materials; machinery and
  equipment; metals and ores; chemicals and plastics; food, textiles

Burkina Faso:
  machinery, food products, petroleum

Burma:
  machinery, transport equipment, construction materials, food
  products

Burundi:
  capital goods, petroleum products, foodstuffs

Cambodia:
  cigarettes, gold, construction materials, petroleum
  products, machinery, motor vehicles

Cameroon:
  machines and electrical equipment, transport equipment,
  fuel, food

Canada:
  machinery and equipment, crude oil, chemicals, motor
  vehicles and parts, durable consumer goods, electricity

Cape Verde:
  foodstuffs, industrial products, transport equipment,
  fuels

Cayman Islands:
  foodstuffs, manufactured goods

Central African Republic:
  food, textiles, petroleum products,
  machinery, electrical equipment, motor vehicles, chemicals,
  pharmaceuticals, consumer goods, industrial products

Chad:
  machinery and transportation equipment, industrial goods,
  petroleum products, foodstuffs, textiles

Chile:
  consumer goods, chemicals, motor vehicles, fuels, electrical
  machinery, heavy industrial machinery, food

China:
  machinery and equipment, mineral fuels, plastics, iron and
  steel, chemicals

Christmas Island:
  consumer goods

Cocos (Keeling) Islands:
  foodstuffs

Colombia:
  industrial equipment, transportation equipment, consumer
  goods, chemicals, paper products, fuels, electricity

Comoros:
  rice and other foodstuffs, consumer goods; petroleum
  products, cement, transport equipment

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  foodstuffs, mining and other
  machinery, transport equipment, fuels

Congo, Republic of the:
  petroleum products, capital equipment,
  construction materials, foodstuffs

Cook Islands:
  foodstuffs, textiles, fuels, timber, capital goods

Costa Rica:
  raw materials, consumer goods, capital equipment,
  petroleum

Cote d'Ivoire:
  food, consumer goods; capital goods, fuel, transport
  equipment

Croatia:
  machinery, transport and electrical equipment, chemicals,
  fuels and lubricants, foodstuffs

Cuba:
  petroleum, food, machinery, chemicals, semifinished goods,
  transport equipment, consumer goods

Cyprus:
  Greek Cypriot area: consumer goods, petroleum and
  lubricants, food and feed grains, machinery; Turkish Cypriot area:
  food, minerals, chemicals, machinery

Czech Republic:
  machinery and transport equipment 42%, other
  manufactured goods 33%, chemicals 12%, raw materials and fuels 10%
  (1999)

Denmark:
  machinery and equipment, raw materials and semimanufactures
  for industry, chemicals, grain and foodstuffs, consumer goods

Djibouti:
  foods, beverages, transport equipment, chemicals,
  petroleum products

Dominica:
  manufactured goods, machinery and equipment, food,
  chemicals

Dominican Republic:
  foodstuffs, petroleum, cotton and fabrics,
  chemicals and pharmaceuticals

Ecuador:
  machinery and equipment, raw materials, fuels; consumer
  goods

Egypt:
  machinery and equipment, foodstuffs, chemicals, wood
  products, fuels

El Salvador:
  raw materials, consumer goods, capital goods, fuels,
  foodstuffs, petroleum, electricity

Equatorial Guinea:
  manufactured goods and equipment

Eritrea:
  machinery, petroleum products, food, manufactured goods

Estonia:
  machinery and equipment 31%, chemical products 13%,
  foodstuffs 11%, metal products 8%, textiles 8% (1999)

Ethiopia:
  food and live animals, petroleum and petroleum products,
  chemicals, machinery, motor vehicles

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas):
  fuel, food and drink, building
  materials, clothing

Faroe Islands:
  machinery and transport equipment 29%, consumer goods
  36%, raw materials and semi-manufactures 32%, fuels, fish and salt
  (1999)

Fiji:
  manufactured goods, machinery and transport equipment,
  petroleum products, food, chemicals

Finland:
  foodstuffs, petroleum and petroleum products, chemicals,
  transport equipment, iron and steel, machinery, textile yarn and
  fabrics, grains

France:
  machinery and equipment, vehicles, crude oil, aircraft,
  plastics, chemicals

French Guiana:
  food (grains, processed meat), machinery and
  transport equipment, fuels and chemicals

French Polynesia:
  fuels, foodstuffs, equipment

Gabon:
  machinery and equipment, foodstuffs, chemicals, petroleum
  products, construction materials

Gambia, The:
  foodstuffs, manufactures, fuel, machinery and transport
  equipment

Gaza Strip:
  food, consumer goods, construction materials

Georgia:
  fuel, grain and other foods, machinery and parts, transport
  equipment

Germany:
  machinery, vehicles, chemicals, foodstuffs, textiles, metals

Ghana:
  capital equipment, petroleum, foodstuffs

Gibraltar:
  fuels, manufactured goods, and foodstuffs

Greece:
  manufactured goods, foodstuffs, fuels, chemicals

Greenland:
  machinery and transport equipment, manufactured goods,
  food, petroleum products

Grenada:
  food, manufactured goods, machinery, chemicals, fuel (1989)

Guadeloupe:
  foodstuffs, fuels, vehicles, clothing and other consumer
  goods, construction materials

Guam:
  petroleum and petroleum products, food, manufactured goods

Guatemala:
  fuels, machinery and transport equipment, construction
  materials, grain, fertilizers, electricity

Guernsey:
  coal, gasoline, oil, machinery and equipment

Guinea:
  petroleum products, metals, machinery, transport equipment,
  textiles, grain and other foodstuffs

Guinea-Bissau:
  foodstuffs, machinery and transport equipment,
  petroleum products (1996)

Guyana:
  manufactures, machinery, petroleum, food

Haiti:
  food, machinery and transport equipment, fuels, raw materials

Honduras:
  machinery and transport equipment, industrial raw
  materials, chemical products, fuels, foodstuffs

Hong Kong:
  foodstuffs, transport equipment, raw materials,
  semimanufactures, petroleum; a large share is reexported

Hungary:
  machinery and equipment 51.1%, other manufactures 35.9%,
  fuels and electricity 8.1%, food products 2.8%, raw materials 2.1%
  (2000)

Iceland:
  machinery and equipment, petroleum products; foodstuffs,
  textiles

India:
  crude oil, machinery, gems, fertilizer, chemicals

Indonesia:
  machinery and equipment; chemicals, fuels, foodstuffs

Iran:
  industrial raw materials and intermediate goods, capital
  goods, foodstuffs and other consumer goods, technical services,
  military supplies

Iraq:
  food, medicine, manufactures

Ireland:
  data processing equipment, other machinery and equipment,
  chemicals; petroleum and petroleum products, textiles, clothing

Israel:
  raw materials, military equipment, investment goods, rough
  diamonds, fuels, consumer goods

Italy:
  engineering products, chemicals, transport equipment, energy
  products, minerals and nonferrous metals, textiles and clothing;
  food, beverages and tobacco

Jamaica:
  machinery and transport equipment, construction materials,
  fuel, food, chemicals, fertilizers

Japan:
  fuels, foodstuffs, chemicals, textiles, office machinery

Jersey:
  machinery and transport equipment, manufactured goods,
  foodstuffs, mineral fuels, chemicals

Jordan:
  crude oil, machinery, transport equipment, food, live
  animals, manufactured goods

Kazakhstan:
  machinery and parts, industrial materials, oil and gas,
  vehicles

Kenya:
  machinery and transportation equipment, petroleum products,
  iron and steel

Kiribati:
  foodstuffs, machinery and equipment, miscellaneous
  manufactured goods, fuel

Korea, North:
  petroleum, coking coal, machinery and equipment;
  consumer goods, grain

Korea, South:
  machinery, electronics and electronic equipment, oil,
  steel, transport equipment, textiles, organic chemicals, grains

Kuwait:
  food, construction materials, vehicles and parts, clothing

Kyrgyzstan:
  oil and gas, machinery and equipment, foodstuffs

Laos:
  machinery and equipment, vehicles, fuel

Latvia:
  machinery and equipment, chemicals, fuels

Lebanon:
  foodstuffs, machinery and transport equipment, consumer
  goods, chemicals, textiles, metals, fuels, agricultural foods

Lesotho:
  food; building materials, vehicles, machinery, medicines,
  petroleum products (1995)

Liberia:
  fuels, chemicals, machinery, transportation equipment,
  manufactured goods; rice and other foodstuffs

Libya:
  machinery, transport equipment, food, manufactured goods

Liechtenstein:
  machinery, metal goods, textiles, foodstuffs, motor
  vehicles

Lithuania:
  machinery and equipment 18%, mineral products 16%,
  chemicals 10%, textiles and clothing 10%, transport equipment 7%
  (1999)

Luxembourg:
  minerals, metals, foodstuffs, quality consumer goods

Macau:
  raw materials, foodstuffs, capital goods, fuels, consumer
  goods

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  machinery and equipment,
  chemicals, fuels; food products

Madagascar:
  intermediate manufactures, capital goods, petroleum,
  consumer goods, food

Malawi:
  food, petroleum products, semimanufactures, consumer goods,
  transportation equipment

Malaysia:
  machinery and transport equipment, chemicals, food, fuel
  and lubricants

Maldives:
  consumer goods, intermediate and capital goods, petroleum
  products

Mali:
  machinery and equipment, construction materials, petroleum,
  foodstuffs, textiles

Malta:
  machinery and transport equipment, manufactured and
  semi-manufactured goods; food, drink, and tobacco

Man, Isle of:
  timber, fertilizers, fish

Marshall Islands:
  foodstuffs, machinery and equipment, fuels,
  beverages and tobacco

Martinique:
  petroleum products, crude oil, foodstuffs, construction
  materials, vehicles, clothing and other consumer goods

Mauritania:
  machinery and equipment, petroleum products, capital
  goods, foodstuffs, consumer goods

Mauritius:
  manufactured goods, capital equipment, foodstuffs,
  petroleum products, chemicals (1996)

Mayotte:
  food, machinery and equipment, transportation equipment,
  metals, chemicals

Mexico:
  metal-working machines, steel mill products, agricultural
  machinery, electrical equipment, car parts for assembly, repair
  parts for motor vehicles, aircraft, and aircraft parts

Micronesia, Federated States of:
  food, manufactured goods, machinery
  and equipment, beverages

Moldova:
  mineral products and fuel 38%, machinery and equipment,
  chemicals, textiles (1999)

Mongolia:
  machinery and equipment, fuels, food products, industrial
  consumer goods, chemicals, building materials, sugar, tea

Montserrat:
  machinery and transportation equipment, foodstuffs,
  manufactured goods, fuels, lubricants, and related materials

Morocco:
  semiprocessed goods, machinery and equipment, food and
  beverages, consumer goods, fuel

Mozambique:
  machinery and equipment, mineral products, chemicals,
  metals, foodstuffs, textiles (2000)

Namibia:
  foodstuffs; petroleum products and fuel, machinery and
  equipment, chemicals

Nauru:
  food, fuel, manufactures, building materials, machinery

Nepal:
  gold, machinery and equipment, petroleum products, fertilizer

Netherlands:
  machinery and transport equipment, chemicals, fuels;
  foodstuffs, clothing

Netherlands Antilles:
  crude petroleum, food, manufactures

New Caledonia:
  transport equipment, machinery and electrical
  equipment, fuels, minerals, wine, sugar, rice

New Zealand:
  machinery and equipment, vehicles and aircraft,
  petroleum, consumer goods, plastics

Nicaragua:
  machinery and equipment, raw materials, petroleum
  products, consumer goods

Niger:
  consumer goods, primary materials, machinery, vehicles and
  parts, petroleum, cereals

Nigeria:
  machinery, chemicals, transport equipment, manufactured
  goods, food and live animals

Niue:
  food, live animals, manufactured goods, machinery, fuels,
  lubricants, chemicals, drugs

Norfolk Island:
  NA

Northern Mariana Islands:
  food, construction equipment and
  materials, petroleum products

Norway:
  machinery and equipment, chemicals, metals, foodstuffs

Oman:
  machinery and transport equipment, manufactured goods, food,
  livestock, lubricants

Pakistan:
  machinery, petroleum, petroleum products, chemicals,
  transportation equipment, edible oils, grains, pulses, flour

Palau:
  machinery and equipment, fuels, metals; foodstuffs

Panama:
  capital goods, crude oil, foodstuffs, consumer goods,
  chemicals

Papua New Guinea:
  machinery and transport equipment, manufactured
  goods, food, fuels, chemicals

Paraguay:
  road vehicles, consumer goods, tobacco, petroleum
  products, electrical machinery

Peru:
  machinery, transport equipment, foodstuffs, petroleum, iron
  and steel, chemicals, pharmaceuticals

Philippines:
  raw materials and intermediate goods, capital goods,
  consumer goods, fuels

Pitcairn Islands:
  fuel oil, machinery, building materials, flour,
  sugar, other foodstuffs

Poland:
  machinery and transport equipment 38.2%, intermediate
  manufactured goods 20.8%, chemicals 14.3%, miscellaneous
  manufactured goods 9.5% (1999)

Portugal:
  machinery and transport equipment, chemicals, petroleum,
  textiles, agricultural products

Puerto Rico:
  chemicals, machinery and equipment, clothing, food,
  fish, petroleum products

Qatar:
  machinery and transport equipment, food, chemicals

Reunion:
  manufactured goods, food, beverages, tobacco, machinery and
  transportation equipment, raw materials, and petroleum products

Romania:
  machinery and equipment 23%, fuels and minerals 12%,
  chemicals 9%, textile and products 19% (1999)

Russia:
  machinery and equipment, consumer goods, medicines, meat,
  grain, sugar, semifinished metal products

Rwanda:
  foodstuffs, machinery and equipment, steel, petroleum
  products, cement and construction material

Saint Helena:
  food, beverages, tobacco, fuel oils, animal feed,
  building materials, motor vehicles and parts, machinery and parts

Saint Kitts and Nevis:
  machinery, manufactures, food, fuels

Saint Lucia:
  food 23%, manufactured goods 21%, machinery and
  transportation equipment 19%, chemicals, fuels

Saint Pierre and Miquelon:
  meat, clothing, fuel, electrical
  equipment, machinery, building materials

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:
  foodstuffs, machinery and
  equipment, chemicals and fertilizers, minerals and fuels

Samoa:
  machinery and equipment, industrial supplies, foodstuffs

San Marino:
  wide variety of consumer manufactures, food

Sao Tome and Principe:
  machinery and electrical equipment, food
  products, petroleum products

Saudi Arabia:
  machinery and equipment, foodstuffs, chemicals, motor
  vehicles, textiles

Senegal:
  foods and beverages, consumer goods, capital goods,
  petroleum products

Seychelles:
  machinery and equipment, foodstuffs, petroleum products,
  chemicals

Sierra Leone:
  foodstuffs, machinery and equipment, fuels and
  lubricants, chemicals

Singapore:
  machinery and equipment, mineral fuels, chemicals,
  foodstuffs

Slovakia:
  machinery and transport equipment 37.7%, intermediate
  manufactured goods 18%, fuels 13%, chemicals 11%, miscellaneous
  manufactured goods 9.5% (1999)

Slovenia:
  machinery and transport equipment, manufactured goods,
  chemicals, fuels and lubricants, food

Solomon Islands:
  plant and equipment, manufactured goods, food and
  live animals, fuels, chemicals

Somalia:
  manufactures, petroleum products, foodstuffs, construction
  materials (1995)

South Africa:
  machinery, foodstuffs and equipment, chemicals,
  petroleum products, scientific instruments

Spain:
  machinery and equipment, fuels, chemicals, semifinished
  goods; foodstuffs, consumer goods (1997)

Sri Lanka:
  machinery and equipment, textiles, petroleum, foodstuffs

Sudan:
  foodstuffs, manufactured goods, machinery and transport
  equipment, medicines and chemicals, textiles

Suriname:
  capital equipment, petroleum, foodstuffs, cotton, consumer
  goods

Swaziland:
  motor vehicles, machinery, transport equipment,
  foodstuffs, petroleum products, chemicals

Sweden:
  machinery, petroleum and petroleum products, chemicals,
  motor vehicles, iron and steel; foodstuffs, clothing

Switzerland:
  machinery, chemicals, vehicles, metals; agricultural
  products, textiles

Syria:
  machinery and equipment 23%, foodstuffs/animals 20%, metal
  and metal products 15%, textiles 10%, chemicals 10% (1998 est.)

Tajikistan:
  electricity, petroleum products, aluminum oxide,
  machinery and equipment, foodstuffs

Tanzania:
  consumer goods, machinery and transportation equipment,
  industrial raw materials, crude oil

Thailand:
  capital goods, intermediate goods and raw materials,
  consumer goods, fuels

Togo:
  machinery and equipment, foodstuffs, petroleum products

Tokelau:
  foodstuffs, building materials, fuel

Tonga:
  foodstuffs, machinery and transport equipment, fuels,
  chemicals

Trinidad and Tobago:
  machinery, transportation equipment,
  manufactured goods, food, live animals

Tunisia:
  machinery and equipment, hydrocarbons, chemicals, food

Turkey:
  machinery 28.3%, chemicals 15.2%, semi-finished goods 14.5%,
  fuels 11%, transport equipment 9.5% (1999)

Turkmenistan:
  machinery and equipment 60%, foodstuffs 15% (1999)

Turks and Caicos Islands:
  food and beverages, tobacco, clothing,
  manufactures, construction materials

Tuvalu:
  food, animals, mineral fuels, machinery, manufactured goods

Uganda:
  vehicles, petroleum, medical supplies; cereals

Ukraine:
  energy, machinery and parts, transportation equipment,
  chemicals

United Arab Emirates:
  machinery and transport equipment, chemicals,
  food

United Kingdom:
  manufactured goods, machinery, fuels; foodstuffs

United States:
  crude oil and refined petroleum products, machinery,
  automobiles, consumer goods, industrial raw materials, food and
  beverages

Uruguay:
  road vehicles, electrical machinery, metal manufactures,
  heavy industrial machinery, crude petroleum

Uzbekistan:
  machinery and equipment, chemicals, metals; foodstuffs

Vanuatu:
  machinery and equipment, foodstuffs, fuels

Venezuela:
  raw materials, machinery and equipment, transport
  equipment, construction materials

Vietnam:
  machinery and equipment, petroleum products, fertilizer,
  steel products, raw cotton, grain, cement, motorcycles

Virgin Islands:
  crude oil, foodstuffs, consumer goods, building
  materials

Wallis and Futuna:
  chemicals, machinery, passenger ships, consumer
  goods

West Bank:
  food, consumer goods, construction materials

Western Sahara:
  fuel for fishing fleet, foodstuffs

World:
  the whole range of industrial and agricultural goods and
  services

Yemen:
  food and live animals, machinery and equipment

Yugoslavia:
  machinery and transport equipment, fuels and lubricants,
  manufactured goods, chemicals, food and live animals, raw materials

Zambia:
  machinery, transportation equipment, fuels, petroleum
  products, electricity, fertilizer; foodstuffs, clothing

Zimbabwe:
  machinery and transport equipment 35%, other manufactures
  18%, chemicals 17%, fuels 14% (1999 est.)

Taiwan:
  machinery and electrical equipment 51%, minerals, precision
  instruments

======================================================================

@Imports - partners



Afghanistan:
  FSU, Pakistan, Iran, Japan, Singapore, India, South
  Korea, Germany

Albania:
  Italy 37%, Greece 28%, Turkey 6%, Germany 6%, Bulgaria 3%
  (2000)

Algeria:
  France 30%, Italy 9%, Germany 7%, Spain 6%, US 5%, Turkey
  5% (1999)

American Samoa:
  US 62%, Japan 9%, NZ 7%, Australia 11%, Fiji 4%,
  other 7%

Andorra:
  Spain 48%, France 35%, US 2.3% (1998)

Angola:
  South Korea 16%, Portugal 15%, US 13%, South Africa 10%,
  France 8% (1999)

Anguilla:
  NA

Antigua and Barbuda:
  US 27%, UK 16%, Canada 4%, OECS 3%

Argentina:
  EU 28%, US 22%, Brazil 21% (1999 est.)

Armenia:
  Russia 17%, US 11%, Belgium 11%, Iran 10%, UK, Turkey (1999)

Aruba:
  US 63%, Netherlands 11%, Netherlands Antilles 3%, Japan (1999)

Australia:
  EU 24%, US 22%, Japan 14%, ASEAN 13% (1999)

Austria:
  EU 70.3% (Germany 42.5%, Italy 7.9%, France 5.3%), US 5.4%,
  Switzerland 3.0%, Hungary 2.8% (1999)

Azerbaijan:
  Russia, Turkey, Ukraine, UAE, Iran

Bahamas, The:
  US 27.3%, Italy 26.5%, Japan 10%, Denmark 4.2% (1998)

Bahrain:
  France 20%, US 14%, UK 8%, Saudi Arabia 7%, Japan 5% (1999)

Bangladesh:
  India 12.2%, Singapore 7.8%, Japan 6.7%, China 6.4%, US
  5.3% (1999)

Barbados:
  US 30.7%, Trinidad and Tobago 10.2%, Japan 8.3%, UK 7.7%,
  Canada 2.2% (1998)

Belarus:
  Russia 54%, Ukraine, Germany, Poland, Lithuania (1998)

Belgium:
  EU 71% (Germany 18%, Netherlands 17%, France 14%, UK 9%)
  (1999)

Belize:
  US 58%, Mexico 12%, UK 5% EU 5%, Central America 5%, Caricom
  4% (1998)

Benin:
  France 38%, China 16%, UK 9%, Cote d'Ivoire 5% (1999)

Bermuda:
  US 34%, UK 9%, Mexico 8% (1997)

Bhutan:
  India 77%, Japan, UK, Germany, US

Bolivia:
  US 32%, Japan 24%, Brazil 12%, Argentina 12%, Chile 7%,
  Peru 4%, Germany 3%, other 6% (1998)

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  Croatia, Slovenia, Germany, Italy

Botswana:
  Southern African Customs Union (SACU) 76%, Europe 10%,
  South Korea 5% (1998)

Brazil:
  US 24%, Argentina 12%, Germany 10%, Japan 5%, Italy 5% (1999)

British Virgin Islands:
  Virgin Islands (US), Puerto Rico, US

Brunei:
  Singapore 34%, UK 15%, Malaysia 15%, US 5% (1999)

Bulgaria:
  Russia 24%, Germany 14%, Italy 8%, Greece 5%, France 5%,
  Romania 4%, Turkey 3%, US 3% (2000)

Burkina Faso:
  Cote d'Ivoire 30%, France 28%, Spain 3%, Benelux 3%
  (1999)

Burma:
  Singapore 28%, Thailand 12%, China 10%, Japan 10%, South
  Korea 9% (1999 est.)

Burundi:
  Belgium 20%, Zambia 11%, Kenya 8%, South Africa 5%, France
  4% (1999)

Cambodia:
  Thailand 16%, Vietnam 9%, Japan 7%, Hong Kong 5%, China 5%
  (1997)

Cameroon:
  France 29%, Germany 7%, US 6%, Japan 6% (2000 est.)

Canada:
  US 76%, Japan 3%, UK, Germany, France, Mexico, Taiwan, South
  Korea (1999)

Cape Verde:
  Portugal, Netherlands, France, UK, Spain, US

Cayman Islands:
  US, Trinidad and Tobago, UK, Netherlands Antilles,
  Japan

Central African Republic:
  France 35%, Cameroon 13%, Benelux, Cote
  d'Ivoire, Germany, Japan (1999)

Chad:
  France 40%, Cameroon 13%, Nigeria 12%, India 5% (1999)

Chile:
  US 24%, EU 23%, Argentina 11%, Brazil 6%, Japan 6%, Mexico 5%
  (1998)

China:
  Japan 18%, Taiwan 11%, US 10%, South Korea 10%, Germany, Hong
  Kong, Russia, Malaysia (2000)

Christmas Island:
  principally Australia

Cocos (Keeling) Islands:
  Australia

Colombia:
  US 35%, EU 16%, Andean Community of Nations 15%, Japan 5%
  (2000 est.)

Comoros:
  France 38%, Pakistan 13%, South Africa 8%, Kenya 8% (1998)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  South Africa 28%, Benelux 14%,
  Nigeria 9%, Kenya 7%, China (1999)

Congo, Republic of the:
  France 23%, US 9%, Belgium 8%, UK 7%, Italy
  (1997 est.)

Cook Islands:
  NZ 70%, Australia 8% (1999)

Costa Rica:
  US 56.4%, EU 9%, Mexico 5.4%, Japan 4.7%, (1999)

Cote d'Ivoire:
  France 26%, Nigeria 10%, China 7%, Italy 5%, Germany
  4% (1999)

Croatia:
  Germany 18.5%, Italy 15.9%, Russia 8.6%, Slovenia 7.9%,
  Austria 7.1% (1999)

Cuba:
  Spain 18%, Venezuela 13%, Canada 8% (1999)

Cyprus:
  Greek Cypriot area: UK 11.2%, US 10.6%, Italy 8.8%, Greece
  8.2%, Germany 6.7% (1999); Turkish Cypriot area: Turkey 58.6%, UK
  12.5%, other EU 13% (1999)

Czech Republic:
  Germany 37.5%, Slovakia 6.7%, Austria 6.2%, Italy
  5.9%, France 5.4% (1999)

Denmark:
  EU 72.1% (Germany 21.6%, Sweden 12.4%, UK 8.0%, Netherlands
  8.0%, France 5.8%), Norway 4.2%, US 4.5% (1999)

Djibouti:
  France 13%, Ethiopia 12%, Italy 9%, Saudi Arabia 6%, UK 6%
  (1998)

Dominica:
  US 41%, Caricom countries 25%, UK 13%, Netherlands, Canada
  (1996 est.)

Dominican Republic:
  US 25.7%, Venezuela 9.2%, Mexico 4%, Japan 3%,
  Panama 2.6% (1999 est.)

Ecuador:
  US 30%, Colombia 13%, Venezuela 6%, Japan 5%, Venezuela 6%,
  Mexico 3% (1998)

Egypt:
  EU 36%, US 14%, Afro-Asian countries 14%, Middle East 6%
  (1999)

El Salvador:
  US 52%, Guatemala 9%, Mexico 6%, Costa Rica 3% (1999)

Equatorial Guinea:
  US 35%, France 15%, Spain 10%, Cameroon 10%, UK
  6% (1997)

Eritrea:
  Italy 17.4%, UAE 16.2%, Germany 5.7%, UK 4.5%, Korea 4.4%
  (1998)

Estonia:
  Finland 22.8%, Russia 13.5%, Sweden 9.3%, Germany 9.3%,
  Japan 4.7% (1999)

Ethiopia:
  Saudi Arabia 28%, Italy 10%, Russia 7%, US 6% (1999 est.)

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas):
  UK, Japan, Chile, NZ

Faroe Islands:
  Denmark 28%, Norway 26%, Germany 7%, UK 6% Sweden 5%,
  Iceland 4%, US (1999)

Fiji:
  Australia 41.9%, US 14%, NZ 13.3%, Japan 4.8%, Taiwan 1.9%
  (1999)

Finland:
  EU 60% (Germany 15%, Sweden 11%, UK 7%), US 8%, Russia 7%,
  Japan 6% (1999)

France:
  EU 62% (Germany 16%, Belgium-Luxembourg 11%, Italy 9%, UK
  8%), US 7% (2000 est.)

French Guiana:
  France 52%, US 14%, Trinidad and Tobago 6% (1997)

French Polynesia:
  France 53%, US 13%, Australia 10% (1999)

Gabon:
  France 64%, US 4%, UK 2%, Netherlands 2%, (1999)

Gambia, The:
  China (including Hong Kong) 49%, UK 15%, Netherlands
  11.6%, Brazil 10%, Senegal 10% (1997)

Gaza Strip:
  Israel, Egypt, West Bank

Georgia:
  EU 22%, Russia 19%, Turkey 12%, US 12% (1999)

Germany:
  EU 52.2% (France 10.5%, Netherlands 7.6%, Italy 7.4%, UK
  6.9%, Belgium/Luxembourg 5.6%), US 8.1%, Japan 4.9% (1999)

Ghana:
  UK, Nigeria, US, Germany, Italy, Spain (1998)

Gibraltar:
  UK, Spain, Japan, Netherlands

Greece:
  EU 66% (Italy 15%, Germany 15%, France 9%, UK 6%) (1999)

Greenland:
  EU (mostly Denmark), Norway, US, Canada

Grenada:
  US 31.2%, Caricom 23.6%, UK 13.8%, Japan 7.1% (1991)

Guadeloupe:
  France 63%, Germany 4%, US 3%, Japan 2%, Netherlands
  Antilles 2% (1997)

Guam:
  US 23%, Japan 19%

Guatemala:
  US 42.8%, Mexico 9.9%, Japan 4.8%, El Salvador 4.3%,
  Venezuela 3.8% (1998)

Guernsey:
  UK (regarded as internal trade)

Guinea:
  France, Belgium, US, Cote d'Ivoire (1999)

Guinea-Bissau:
  Portugal 26%, France 8%, Senegal 8%, Netherlands 7%
  (1998)

Guyana:
  US 29%, Trinidad and Tobago 18%, Netherlands Antilles 16%,
  UK 7%, Japan (1999)

Haiti:
  US 60%, EU 13% (1999)

Honduras:
  US 47.1%, Guatemala 7.4%, El Salvador 5.9%, Mexico 4.8%,
  Japan 4.7% (1999)

Hong Kong:
  China 44%, Japan 12%, US 7%, Taiwan 7%, South Korea,
  Singapore (1999)

Hungary:
  Germany 25%, Russia 8%, Austria 7%, Italy 7% (2000)

Iceland:
  EU 56% (Germany 12%, UK 9%, Denmark 8%, Sweden 6%), US 11%,
  Norway 10% (1999)

India:
  US 9%, Benelux 8%, UK 6%, Saudi Arabia 6%, Japan 6%, Germany
  5% (1999)

Indonesia:
  Japan 12%, US 12%, Singapore 10%, Germany 6%, Australia
  6%, South Korea 6%, Taiwan, China (1999 est.)

Iran:
  Germany, South Korea, Italy, UAE, France, Japan

Iraq:
  Egypt, Russia, France, Vietnam (2000)

Ireland:
  EU 54% (UK 29%, Germany 6%, France 5%), US 18%, Japan 5%,
  Singapore 4% (2000)

Israel:
  US 20%, Benelux 11%, Germany 8%, UK 8%, Switzerland 6%,
  Italy 5% (1999)

Italy:
  EU 61% (Germany 19.3%, France 12.6%, Netherlands 6.3%, Spain
  4.4%), US 5.0% (1999)

Jamaica:
  US 47.8%, Caricom countries 12.4%, Latin America 7.2%, EU
  (excluding UK) 4.7% (1999)

Japan:
  US 19%, China 14.5%, South Korea 5.4%, Taiwan 4.8%, Indonesia
  4.3%, Australia 3.9% (2000 est.)

Jersey:
  UK

Jordan:
  Iraq, Germany, US, Japan, UK, Italy, Turkey, Malaysia,
  Syria, China

Kazakhstan:
  Russia 37%, US, Uzbekistan, Turkey, UK, Germany,
  Ukraine, South Korea (1999)

Kenya:
  UK 12%, UAE 8%, Japan 8%, US 7% (1999)

Kiribati:
  Australia, Fiji, Japan, NZ, China (1999)

Korea, North:
  China 33%, Japan 17%, Russia 5%, South Korea 4%,
  Germany 3% (1995)

Korea, South:
  US 20.8%, Japan 20.2%, China 7.4%, Saudi Arabia 4.7%,
  Australia 3.9% (1999)

Kuwait:
  US 15%, Japan 10%, UK 7%, Germany 7% (1999)

Kyrgyzstan:
  Russia 18%, Kazakhstan 12%, US 9%, Germany 8%,
  Uzbekistan 8%, China (1999)

Laos:
  Thailand, Japan, Vietnam, China, Singapore, Hong Kong

Latvia:
  Russia 15%, Germany 10%, Finland 9%, Sweden 7% (1999)

Lebanon:
  Italy 13%, France 11%, Germany 8%, US 7%, Switzerland 6%,
  Japan, UK, Syria (1999)

Lesotho:
  South African Customs Union 90%, Asia 7% (1998)

Liberia:
  South Korea 30%, Italy 24%, Japan 15%, Germany 9% (1999)

Libya:
  Italy 24%, Germany 12%, Tunisia 9%, UK 7%, France 6%, South
  Korea 5% (1999)

Liechtenstein:
  EU countries, Switzerland (1996)

Lithuania:
  Russia 20.4%, Germany 16.5%, Denmark 3.8%, Belarus 2.2%,
  Latvia 2% (1999)

Luxembourg:
  EU 81% (Belgium 35%, Germany 26%, France 12%,
  Netherlands 4%), US 9% (1999)

Macau:
  China 36%, Hong Kong 18%, EU 13%, Taiwan 10%, Japan 7% (1999)

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  Germany 13%, Ukraine
  13%, Russia 10%, Yugoslavia 8%, Greece 8% (2000)

Madagascar:
  France 34%, Hong Kong 6%, China 6%, Japan 5%, Singapore
  4% (1999)

Malawi:
  South Africa 43%, Zimbabwe 14%, UK 5%, Germany 5%, Zambia,
  Japan, US (1999)

Malaysia:
  Japan 21%, US 17%, Singapore 14%, Taiwan 6%, South Korea
  5%, Thailand 4%, China 4% (2000 est.)

Maldives:
  Singapore, India, Sri Lanka, Japan, Canada

Mali:
  Cote d'Ivoire 19%, France 19%, Senegal 4%, Benelux 3% (1999)

Malta:
  France 19.1%, Italy 16.7%, UK 10.9%, Germany 10.0%, US 8.5%
  (1999)

Man, Isle of:
  UK

Marshall Islands:
  US, Japan, Australia, NZ, Guam, Singapore

Martinique:
  France 62%, Venezuela 6%, Germany 4%, Italy 4%, US 3%
  (1997)

Mauritania:
  France 27%, Benelux 9%, Germany 7%, Spain 7% (1998)

Mauritius:
  France 14%, South Africa 11%, India 8%, UK 5% (1999 est.)

Mayotte:
  France 66%, Africa 14%, Southeast Asia 11% (1997)

Mexico:
  US 73.6%, Japan 3.7%, Germany 3.3%, Canada 2.3%, South Korea
  2%, China 1.6%, Taiwan 1.2%, Italy 1%, Brazil 1% (2000 est.)

Micronesia, Federated States of:
  US, Japan, Australia

Moldova:
  Russia 21%, Romania 16%, Ukraine 14%, Germany 12%, Italy
  6%, Belarus (1999)

Mongolia:
  Russia 33%, China 21%, Japan 12%, South Korea 10%, US 4%
  (1999)

Montserrat:
  US, UK, Trinidad and Tobago, Japan, Canada (1993)

Morocco:
  France 32%, Spain 12%, Italy 7%, Germany 6%, UK 6% (1999)

Mozambique:
  South Africa 44%, EU 16%, US 6.5%, Japan 6.5%, Pakistan
  3%, India 3% (1999 est.)

Namibia:
  South Africa 81%, US 4%, Germany 2% (1997 est.)

Nauru:
  Australia, UK, NZ, Japan

Nepal:
  India 31%, China/Hong Kong 16%, Singapore 14% (FY97/98)

Netherlands:
  EU 56% (Germany 18%, Belgium-Luxembourg 10%, UK 5%,
  France 6%), US 9%, Central and Eastern Europe (2000)

Netherlands Antilles:
  Venezuela 35.3%, US 21%, Mexico 9.8%, Italy
  5.4%, Netherlands 4.8%, Brazil 3.1% (1998)

New Caledonia:
  France 49%, Australia 14%, Singapore 6%, New Zealand
  5%, US 5% (1999)

New Zealand:
  Australia 24%, US 17%, Japan 12%, UK 4% (1999)

Nicaragua:
  US 34.5%, Costa Rica 11.4%, Guatemala 7.3%, Panama 6.9%,
  Venezuela 5.9%, El Salvador 5.5% (1999)

Niger:
  France 22%, Cote d'Ivoire 15%, Nigeria 8%, US 3% (1999)

Nigeria:
  UK 11%, Germany 10%, US 9%, France 8%, China 6% (1999)

Niue:
  NZ 59%, Fiji 20%, Japan 13%, Samoa, Australia, US

Norfolk Island:
  Australia, other Pacific island countries, NZ, Asia,
  Europe

Northern Mariana Islands:
  US, Japan

Norway:
  EU 66% (Sweden 15%, Germany 12%, UK 9%, Denmark 7%), US 10%,
  Japan (1999)

Oman:
  UAE 26% (largely reexports), Japan 16%, UK 9%, Italy 7%,
  Germany 6%, US (1999)

Pakistan:
  Saudi Arabia 8%, UAE 8%, US 6%, Japan 6%, Malaysia 4%
  (FY99/00)

Palau:
  US

Panama:
  US 39%, Colon Free Zone 14%, Japan 8%, Ecuador 6%, Mexico 5%
  (1999)

Papua New Guinea:
  Australia 53%, Singapore 13%, Japan 6%, US 4%, New
  Zealand 4%, Malaysia 4% (1999)

Paraguay:
  Brazil, US, Argentina, Uruguay, EU, Hong Kong

Peru:
  US 32%, EU 21%, Andean Community 6%, Mercosur 8%, Japan 5%
  (1999)

Philippines:
  US 22%, Japan 20%, South Korea 8%, Singapore 6%, Taiwan
  5%, Hong Kong 4% (1998 est.)

Pitcairn Islands:
  NA

Poland:
  Germany 25.2%, Italy 9.4%, France 6.8%, Russia 5.8%, UK
  4.6%, Netherlands 3.7% (1999)

Portugal:
  EU 78% (Spain 25%, Germany 15%, France 11%, Italy 8%, UK
  7%, Netherlands 5%), US 3%, Japan 3% (1998)

Puerto Rico:
  US 60% (2000)

Qatar:
  UK 10%, Japan 8%, Germany 6%, US 6%, Italy 6% (1998)

Reunion:
  France 64%, Bahrain 3%, Germany 3%, Italy 3% (1994)

Romania:
  Italy 20%, Germany 19%, France 7%, Russia 6% (1999)

Russia:
  Germany 13.8%, Belarus 10.7%, Ukraine 8.3%, US 7.9%,
  Kazakhstan 4.6%, Italy 3.8% (1999)

Rwanda:
  Kenya, Tanzania, US, Benelux, France, India

Saint Helena:
  UK, South Africa

Saint Kitts and Nevis:
  US 42.4%, Caricom countries 17.2%, UK 11.3%
  (1995 est.)

Saint Lucia:
  US 36%, Caricom countries 22%, UK 11%, Japan 5%, Canada
  4% (1995)

Saint Pierre and Miquelon:
  France 44%, Canada 40% (1999)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:
  US 36%, Caricom countries 28%, UK
  13% (1995)

Samoa:
  New Zealand 37%, Australia 24%, Fiji 14%, US 14% (2000 est.)

Sao Tome and Principe:
  Portugal 42%, US 20%, South Africa 6% (1998)

Saudi Arabia:
  US 25%, Japan 10%, Germany 7%, Italy 5%, France, UK
  (1999)

Senegal:
  France 30%, Nigeria 7%, Italy 6%, Thailand 5%, Germany 4%,
  US 4% (1999)

Seychelles:
  South Africa, UK, China, Singapore, France, Italy

Sierra Leone:
  UK 34%, US 8%, Italy 7%, Nigeria 5% (1999)

Singapore:
  US 17%, Japan 17%, Malaysia 16%, Thailand 5%, China 5%,
  Taiwan 4%, Germany 3%, Saudi Arabia 3% (1999)

Slovakia:
  EU 51.4% (Germany 26%, Italy 7.1%), Czech Republic 16.6%,
  Russia 11.9% (1999)

Slovenia:
  Germany 21%, Italy 17%, France 11%, Austria 8%, Croatia
  4%, Hungary, Russia (1999)

Solomon Islands:
  Australia 38.5%, Singapore 15%, Japan 10.6%, NZ
  6.2% (1999)

Somalia:
  Djibouti 24%, Kenya 14%, Brazil 13%, Saudi Arabia 10%,
  India 9% (1999)

South Africa:
  Germany, US, UK, Japan

Spain:
  EU 68% (France 18%, Germany 16%, Italy 9%, UK 7%, Benelux
  8%), US 8%, OPEC 5%, Latin America 4%, Japan 3% (1999)

Sri Lanka:
  Japan 10%, India 9%, Hong Kong 8%, Singapore 8%, South
  Korea 6% (1999)

Sudan:
  China 14.7%, Libya 14.7%, Saudi Arabia 8.9%, UK 8.7%, France
  6.7% (1999)

Suriname:
  US 35%, Netherlands 15%, Trinidad and Tobago 12%, Japan,
  UK, Brazil (1999)

Swaziland:
  South Africa 84%, EU 5%, Japan 2%, Singapore 2% (1998)

Sweden:
  EU 67% (Germany 18%, UK 10%, Denmark 7%, France 6%), Norway
  8%, US 6% (1999)

Switzerland:
  EU 77.7% (Germany 31.0%, France 12.0%, Italy 9.7%,
  Netherlands 5.1%, UK 5.7%), US 7.1%, Japan 2.9% (1999)

Syria:
  France 11%, Italy 8%, Germany 7%, Turkey 5%, China 4% (1999
  est.)

Tajikistan:
  Europe 32.3%, Uzbekistan 29%, Russia 13.6% (1998)

Tanzania:
  South Africa 8%, Japan 8%, UK 8%, Kenya 7%, India 6%, US
  5% (1998)

Thailand:
  Japan 26%, US 14%, Singapore 6%, China 5%, Malaysia 5%,
  Taiwan 5% (1999)

Togo:
  Ghana, China, France, Cote d'Ivoire (1999)

Tokelau:
  NZ

Tonga:
  NZ 30%, Australia 19%, US 11%, UK 11%, Japan 3% (1997 est.)

Trinidad and Tobago:
  US 39.8%, Venezuela 11.9%, EU 11%, Caricom 4.8%
  (1999)

Tunisia:
  France 23%, Germany 23%, Italy 15%, Belgium 3% (1999)

Turkey:
  Germany 13.1%, Italy 7.9%, US 7.2%, Russia 7.0%, France
  6.6%, UK 5.0% (2000 est.)

Turkmenistan:
  Ukraine, Turkey, Russia, Germany, US, Kazakhstan,
  Uzbekistan

Turks and Caicos Islands:
  US, UK

Tuvalu:
  Fiji, Australia, NZ

Uganda:
  Kenya 27.5%, US 21.2%, France 19.3, UK 5%, India 4% (1999)

Ukraine:
  Russia 42%, Europe 29%, US 3% (2000 est.)

United Arab Emirates:
  Japan 9%, US 8%, UK 8%, Italy 6%, Germany,
  South Korea (1999)

United Kingdom:
  EU 53% (Germany 14%, France 9%, Netherlands 7%), US
  13%, Japan 5% (1999)

United States:
  Canada 19%, Japan 11%, Mexico 11%, China 8%, Germany
  5%, UK, Taiwan (2000)

Uruguay:
  MERCOSUR partners 43%, EU 20%, US 11% (1999 est.)

Uzbekistan:
  Russia 14%, South Korea 14%, Germany 11%, US 8%, Turkey
  4%, Kazakhstan 4% (1999)

Vanuatu:
  Japan 52%, Australia 20%, New Caledonia, Singapore, New
  Zealand, France, Fiji (1997 est.)

Venezuela:
  US 53%, Japan, Colombia, Italy, Germany, France, Brazil,
  Canada (1999)

Vietnam:
  Japan, Singapore, South Korea, Taiwan, China, Thailand,
  Hong Kong, Malaysia, Indonesia, France, US, Sweden

Virgin Islands:
  US, Puerto Rico

Wallis and Futuna:
  France 97%, Australia 2%, New Zealand 1%

West Bank:
  Israel, Jordan, Gaza Strip

Western Sahara:
  Morocco claims and administers Western Sahara, so
  trade partners are included in overall Moroccan accounts

World:
  in value, about 75% of imports by the developed countries

Yemen:
  Saudi Arabia 10%, UAE 8%, US 7%, France 7%, Italy 6% (1999)

Yugoslavia:
  Germany, Italy, Russia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of
  Macedonia (1998)

Zambia:
  South Africa 48%, Saudi Arabia, UK, Zimbabwe (1997)

Zimbabwe:
  South Africa 46%, UK 6%, China 4%, Germany 4%, US 3% (1999
  est.)

Taiwan:
  Japan 27.5%, US 17.9%, Europe 13.6% (2000)

======================================================================

@Independence



Afghanistan:
  19 August 1919 (from UK control over Afghan foreign
  affairs)

Albania:
  28 November 1912 (from Ottoman Empire)

Algeria:
  5 July 1962 (from France)

American Samoa:
  none (territory of the US)

Andorra:
  1278 (was formed under the joint suzerainty of France and
  Spain)

Angola:
  11 November 1975 (from Portugal)

Anguilla:
  none (overseas territory of the UK)

Antigua and Barbuda:
  1 November 1981 (from UK)

Argentina:
  9 July 1816 (from Spain)

Armenia:
  21 September 1991 (from Soviet Union)

Aruba:
  none (part of the Kingdom of the Netherlands)

Australia:
  1 January 1901 (federation of UK colonies)

Austria:
  1156 (from Bavaria)

Azerbaijan:
  30 August 1991 (from Soviet Union)

Bahamas, The:
  10 July 1973 (from UK)

Bahrain:
  15 August 1971 (from UK)

Bangladesh:
  16 December 1971 (from West Pakistan); note - 26 March
  1971 is the date of independence from West Pakistan, 16 December
  1971 is known as Victory Day and commemorates the official creation
  of the state of Bangladesh

Barbados:
  30 November 1966 (from UK)

Belarus:
  25 August 1991 (from Soviet Union)

Belgium:
  21 July 1831 (from the Netherlands)

Belize:
  21 September 1981 (from UK)

Benin:
  1 August 1960 (from France)

Bermuda:
  none (overseas territory of the UK)

Bhutan:
  8 August 1949 (from India)

Bolivia:
  6 August 1825 (from Spain)

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  1 March 1992 (from Yugoslavia)

Botswana:
  30 September 1966 (from UK)

Brazil:
  7 September 1822 (from Portugal)

British Virgin Islands:
  none (overseas territory of the UK)

Brunei:
  1 January 1984 (from UK)

Bulgaria:
  3 March 1878 (from Ottoman Empire)

Burkina Faso:
  5 August 1960 (from France)

Burma:
  4 January 1948 (from UK)

Burundi:
  1 July 1962 (from UN trusteeship under Belgian
  administration)

Cambodia:
  9 November 1953 (from France)

Cameroon:
  1 January 1960 (from French-administered UN trusteeship)

Canada:
  1 July 1867 (from UK)

Cape Verde:
  5 July 1975 (from Portugal)

Cayman Islands:
  none (overseas territory of the UK)

Central African Republic:
  13 August 1960 (from France)

Chad:
  11 August 1960 (from France)

Chile:
  18 September 1810 (from Spain)

China:
  221 BC (unification under the Qin or Ch'in Dynasty 221 BC;
  Qing or Ch'ing Dynasty replaced by the Republic on 12 February 1912;
  People's Republic established 1 October 1949)

Christmas Island:
  none (territory of Australia)

Cocos (Keeling) Islands:
  none (territory of Australia)

Colombia:
  20 July 1810 (from Spain)

Comoros:
  6 July 1975 (from France)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  30 June 1960 (from Belgium)

Congo, Republic of the:
  15 August 1960 (from France)

Cook Islands:
  none (became self-governing in free association with
  New Zealand on 4 August 1965 and has the right at any time to move
  to full independence by unilateral action)

Costa Rica:
  15 September 1821 (from Spain)

Cote d'Ivoire:
  7 August (1960) (from France)

Croatia:
  25 June 1991 (from Yugoslavia)

Cuba:
  20 May 1902 (from US)

Cyprus:
  16 August 1960 (from UK); note - Turkish Cypriot area
  proclaimed self-rule on 13 February 1975

Czech Republic:
  1 January 1993 (Czechoslovakia split into the Czech
  Republic and Slovakia)

Denmark:
  first organized as a unified state in 10th century; in 1849
  became a constitutional monarchy

Djibouti:
  27 June 1977 (from France)

Dominica:
  3 November 1978 (from UK)

Dominican Republic:
  27 February 1844 (from Haiti)

Ecuador:
  24 May 1822 (from Spain)

Egypt:
  28 February 1922 (from UK)

El Salvador:
  15 September 1821 (from Spain)

Equatorial Guinea:
  12 October 1968 (from Spain)

Eritrea:
  24 May 1993 (from Ethiopia)

Estonia:
  6 September 1991 (from Soviet Union)

Ethiopia:
  oldest independent country in Africa and one of the oldest
  in the world - at least 2,000 years

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas):
  none (overseas territory of the
  UK; also claimed by Argentina)

Faroe Islands:
  none (part of the Kingdom of Denmark; self-governing
  overseas administrative division of Denmark)

Fiji:
  10 October 1970 (from UK)

Finland:
  6 December 1917 (from Russia)

France:
  486 (unified by Clovis)

French Guiana:
  none (overseas department of France)

French Polynesia:
  none (overseas territory of France)

Gabon:
  17 August 1960 (from France)

Gambia, The:
  18 February 1965 (from UK)

Georgia:
  9 April 1991 (from Soviet Union)

Germany:
  18 January 1871 (German Empire unification); divided into
  four zones of occupation (UK, US, USSR, and later, France) in 1945
  following World War II; Federal Republic of Germany (FRG or West
  Germany) proclaimed 23 May 1949 and included the former UK, US, and
  French zones; German Democratic Republic (GDR or East Germany)
  proclaimed 7 October 1949 and included the former USSR zone;
  unification of West Germany and East Germany took place 3 October
  1990; all four powers formally relinquished rights 15 March 1991

Ghana:
  6 March 1957 (from UK)

Gibraltar:
  none (overseas territory of the UK)

Greece:
  1829 (from the Ottoman Empire)

Greenland:
  none (part of the Kingdom of Denmark; self-governing
  overseas administrative division of Denmark since 1979)

  note:  foreign affairs is the responsibility of Denmark, but
  Greenland actively participates in international agreements relating
  to Greenland

Grenada:
  7 February 1974 (from UK)

Guadeloupe:
  none (overseas department of France)

Guam:
  none (territory of the US)

Guatemala:
  15 September 1821 (from Spain)

Guernsey:
  none (British crown dependency)

Guinea:
  2 October 1958 (from France)

Guinea-Bissau:
  24 September 1973 (unilaterally declared by
  Guinea-Bissau); 10 September 1974 (recognized by Portugal)

Guyana:
  26 May 1966 (from UK)

Haiti:
  1 January 1804 (from France)

Holy See (Vatican City):
  11 February 1929 (from Italy)

Honduras:
  15 September 1821 (from Spain)

Hong Kong:
  none (special administrative region of China)

Hungary:
  1001 (unification by King Stephen I)

Iceland:
  17 June 1944 (from Denmark)

India:
  15 August 1947 (from UK)

Indonesia:
  17 August 1945 (proclaimed independence; on 27 December
  1949, Indonesia became legally independent from the Netherlands)

Iran:
  1 April 1979 (Islamic Republic of Iran proclaimed)

Iraq:
  3 October 1932 (from League of Nations mandate under British
  administration)

Ireland:
  6 December 1921 (from UK by treaty)

Israel:
  14 May 1948 (from League of Nations mandate under British
  administration)

Italy:
  17 March 1861 (Kingdom of Italy proclaimed; Italy was not
  finally unified until 1870)

Jamaica:
  6 August 1962 (from UK)

Japan:
  660 BC (traditional founding by Emperor Jimmu)

Jersey:
  none (British crown dependency)

Jordan:
  25 May 1946 (from League of Nations mandate under British
  administration)

Kazakhstan:
  16 December 1991 (from the Soviet Union)

Kenya:
  12 December 1963 (from UK)

Kiribati:
  12 July 1979 (from UK)

Korea, North:
  15 August 1945 (from Japan)

Korea, South:
  15 August 1945 (from Japan)

Kuwait:
  19 June 1961 (from UK)

Kyrgyzstan:
  31 August 1991 (from Soviet Union)

Laos:
  19 July 1949 (from France)

Latvia:
  18 November 1991 (from Soviet Union)

Lebanon:
  22 November 1943 (from League of Nations mandate under
  French administration)

Lesotho:
  4 October 1966 (from UK)

Liberia:
  26 July 1847

Libya:
  24 December 1951 (from Italy)

Liechtenstein:
  23 January 1719 Imperial Principality of
  Liechtenstein established; 12 July 1806 established independence
  from the Holy Roman Empire

Lithuania:
  11 March 1990 (independence declared from Soviet Union);
  6 September 1991 (Soviet Union recognizes Lithuania's independence)

Luxembourg:
  1839 (from the Netherlands)

Macau:
  none (special administrative region of China)

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  17 September 1991 (from
  Yugoslavia)

Madagascar:
  26 June 1960 (from France)

Malawi:
  6 July 1964 (from UK)

Malaysia:
  31 August 1957 (from UK)

Maldives:
  26 July 1965 (from UK)

Mali:
  22 September 1960 (from France)

Malta:
  21 September 1964 (from UK)

Man, Isle of:
  none (British crown dependency)

Marshall Islands:
  21 October 1986 (from the US-administered UN
  trusteeship)

Martinique:
  none (overseas department of France)

Mauritania:
  28 November 1960 (from France)

Mauritius:
  12 March 1968 (from UK)

Mayotte:
  none (territorial collectivity of France)

Mexico:
  16 September 1810 (from Spain)

Micronesia, Federated States of:
  3 November 1986 (from the
  US-administered UN Trusteeship)

Moldova:
  27 August 1991 (from Soviet Union)

Monaco:
  1419 (beginning of the rule by the House of Grimaldi)

Mongolia:
  11 July 1921 (from China)

Montserrat:
  none (overseas territory of the UK)

Morocco:
  2 March 1956 (from France)

Mozambique:
  25 June 1975 (from Portugal)

Namibia:
  21 March 1990 (from South African mandate)

Nauru:
  31 January 1968 (from the Australia-, NZ-, and
  UK-administered UN trusteeship)

Nepal:
  1768 (unified by Prithvi Narayan Shah)

Netherlands:
  1579 (from Spain)

Netherlands Antilles:
  none (part of the Kingdom of the Netherlands)

New Caledonia:
  none (overseas territory of France); note - a
  referendum on independence was held in 1998 but did not pass

New Zealand:
  26 September 1907 (from UK)

Nicaragua:
  15 September 1821 (from Spain)

Niger:
  3 August 1958 (from France)

Nigeria:
  1 October 1960 (from UK)

Niue:
  on 19 October 1974, Niue became a self-governing parliamentary
  government in free association with New Zealand

Norfolk Island:
  none (territory of Australia)

Northern Mariana Islands:
  none (commonwealth in political union with
  the US)

Norway:
  7 June 1905 Norway declared the union with Sweden dissolved;
  26 October 1905 Sweden agreed to the repeal of the union

Oman:
  1650 (expulsion of the Portuguese)

Pakistan:
  14 August 1947 (from UK)

Palau:
  1 October 1994 (from the US-administered UN Trusteeship)

Panama:
  3 November 1903 (from Colombia; became independent from
  Spain 28 November 1821)

Papua New Guinea:
  16 September 1975 (from the
  Australian-administered UN trusteeship)

Paraguay:
  14 May 1811 (from Spain)

Peru:
  28 July 1821 (from Spain)

Philippines:
  4 July 1946 (from US)

Pitcairn Islands:
  none (overseas territory of the UK)

Poland:
  11 November 1918 (independent republic proclaimed)

Portugal:
  1140 (independent republic proclaimed 5 October 1910)

Puerto Rico:
  none (commonwealth associated with the US)

Qatar:
  3 September 1971 (from UK)

Reunion:
  none (overseas department of France)

Romania:
  1881 (from Turkey; republic proclaimed 30 December 1947)

Russia:
  24 August 1991 (from Soviet Union)

Rwanda:
  1 July 1962 (from Belgium-administered UN trusteeship)

Saint Helena:
  none (overseas territory of the UK)

Saint Kitts and Nevis:
  19 September 1983 (from UK)

Saint Lucia:
  22 February 1979 (from UK)

Saint Pierre and Miquelon:
  none (territorial collectivity of France;
  has been under French control since 1763)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:
  27 October 1979 (from UK)

Samoa:
  1 January 1962 (from New Zealand-administered UN trusteeship)

San Marino:
  3 September 301

Sao Tome and Principe:
  12 July 1975 (from Portugal)

Saudi Arabia:
  23 September 1932 (Unification of the Kingdom)

Senegal:
  4 April 1960 (from France); complete independence was
  achieved upon dissolution of federation with Mali on 20 August 1960

Seychelles:
  29 June 1976 (from UK)

Sierra Leone:
  27 April 1961 (from UK)

Singapore:
  9 August 1965 (from Malaysia)

Slovakia:
  1 January 1993 (Czechoslovakia split into the Czech
  Republic and Slovakia)

Slovenia:
  25 June 1991 (from Yugoslavia)

Solomon Islands:
  7 July 1978 (from UK)

Somalia:
  1 July 1960 (from a merger of British Somaliland, which
  became independent from the UK on 26 June 1960, and Italian
  Somaliland, which became independent from the Italian-administered
  UN trusteeship on 1 July 1960, to form the Somali Republic)

South Africa:
  31 May 1910 (from UK)

Spain:
  1492 (expulsion of the Moors and unification)

Sri Lanka:
  4 February 1948 (from UK)

Sudan:
  1 January 1956 (from Egypt and UK)

Suriname:
  25 November 1975 (from Netherlands)

Svalbard:
  none (territory of Norway)

Swaziland:
  6 September 1968 (from UK)

Sweden:
  6 June 1523 (Gustav VASA elected king)

Switzerland:
  1 August 1291 (Founding of the Swiss Confederation)

Syria:
  17 April 1946 (from League of Nations mandate under French
  administration)

Tajikistan:
  9 September 1991 (from Soviet Union)

Tanzania:
  26 April 1964; Tanganyika became independent 9 December
  1961 (from UK-administered UN trusteeship); Zanzibar became
  independent 19 December 1963 (from UK); Tanganyika united with
  Zanzibar 26 April 1964 to form the United Republic of Tanganyika and
  Zanzibar; renamed United Republic of Tanzania 29 October 1964

Thailand:
  1238 (traditional founding date; never colonized)

Togo:
  27 April 1960 (from French-administered UN trusteeship)

Tokelau:
  none (territory of New Zealand)

Tonga:
  4 June 1970 (from UK protectorate)

Trinidad and Tobago:
  31 August 1962 (from UK)

Tunisia:
  20 March 1956 (from France)

Turkey:
  29 October 1923 (successor state to the Ottoman Empire)

Turkmenistan:
  27 October 1991 (from the Soviet Union)

Turks and Caicos Islands:
  none (overseas territory of the UK)

Tuvalu:
  1 October 1978 (from UK)

Uganda:
  9 October 1962 (from UK)

Ukraine:
  24 August 1991 (from Soviet Union)

United Arab Emirates:
  2 December 1971 (from UK)

United Kingdom:
  England has existed as a unified entity since the
  10th century; the union between England and Wales was enacted under
  the Statute of Rhuddlan in 1284; in the Act of Union of 1707,
  England and Scotland agreed to permanent union as Great Britain; the
  legislative union of Great Britain and Ireland was implemented in
  1801, with the adoption of the name the United Kingdom of Great
  Britain and Ireland; the Anglo-Irish treaty of 1921 formalized a
  partition of Ireland; six northern Irish counties remained part of
  the United Kingdom as Northern Ireland and the current name of the
  country, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland,
  was adopted in 1927

United States:
  4 July 1776 (from Great Britain)

Uruguay:
  25 August 1825 (from Brazil)

Uzbekistan:
  1 September 1991 (from Soviet Union)

Vanuatu:
  30 July 1980 (from France and UK)

Venezuela:
  5 July 1811 (from Spain)

Vietnam:
  2 September 1945 (from France)

Wallis and Futuna:
  none (overseas territory of France)

Yemen:
  22 May 1990, Republic of Yemen was established with the
  merger of the Yemen Arab Republic [Yemen (Sanaa) or North Yemen] and
  the Marxist-dominated People's Democratic Republic of Yemen [Yemen
  (Aden) or South Yemen]; previously North Yemen had become
  independent on NA November 1918 (from the Ottoman Empire) and South
  Yemen had become independent on 30 November 1967 (from the UK)

Yugoslavia:
  27 April 1992 (Federal Republic of Yugoslavia or FRY
  formed as self-proclaimed successor to the Socialist Federal
  Republic of Yugoslavia or SFRY)

Zambia:
  24 October 1964 (from UK)

Zimbabwe:
  18 April 1980 (from UK)

======================================================================

@Industrial production growth rate



Albania:
  9% (2000 est.)

Algeria:
  7% (1999 est.)

American Samoa:
  NA%

Andorra:
  NA%

Angola:
  NA%

Anguilla:
  3.1% (1997 est.)

Antigua and Barbuda:
  6% (1997 est.)

Argentina:
  1% (2000 est.)

Armenia:
  5% (2000 est.)

Aruba:
  NA%

Australia:
  1.5% (1999 est.)

Austria:
  4.2% (2000)

Azerbaijan:
  6.9% (2000 est.)

Bahamas, The:
  NA%

Bahrain:
  2% (2000 est.)

Bangladesh:
  6.1% (2000 est.)

Barbados:
  0.8% (1996)

Belarus:
  5% (2000 est.)

Belgium:
  5.5% (2000 est.)

Belize:
  4.6% (1999)

Benin:
  6.9% (2000 est.)

Bermuda:
  NA%

Bhutan:
  9.3% (1996 est.)

Bolivia:
  4% (1995 est.)

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  10% (2000 est.)

Botswana:
  6.2% (2000 est.)

Brazil:
  6.9% (2000 est.)

British Virgin Islands:
  4% (1985)

Brunei:
  4% (1997 est.)

Bulgaria:
  10.8% (2000 est.)

Burkina Faso:
  4.2% (1995)

Burma:
  NA%

Burundi:
  6.3% (1999 est.)

Cambodia:
  NA%

Cameroon:
  4.2% (1999 est.)

Canada:
  4.5% (2000 est.)

Cape Verde:
  NA%

Cayman Islands:
  NA%

Central African Republic:
  NA%

Chad:
  5% (1995)

Chile:
  6% (2000 est.)

China:
  10% (2000 est.)

Christmas Island:
  NA%

Cocos (Keeling) Islands:
  NA%

Colombia:
  11% (2000 est.)

Comoros:
  -2% (1999 est.)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  NA%

Congo, Republic of the:
  NA%

Cook Islands:
  NA%

Costa Rica:
  4.3% (2000)

Cote d'Ivoire:
  15% (1998 est.)

Croatia:
  1.7% (2000)

Cuba:
  5% (2000 est.)

Cyprus:
  Greek Cypriot area: 2.2% (1999); Turkish Cypriot area: -0.3%
  (1999)

Czech Republic:
  7.6% (2000)

Denmark:
  3% (2000 est.)

Djibouti:
  3% (1996 est.)

Dominica:
  -10% (1997 est.)

Dominican Republic:
  8% (2000 est.)

Ecuador:
  2.4% (1997 est.)

Egypt:
  2.1% (2000 est.)

El Salvador:
  5% (2000 est.)

Equatorial Guinea:
  7.4% (1994 est.)

Eritrea:
  NA%

Estonia:
  5% (2000 est.)

Ethiopia:
  NA%

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas):
  NA%

Faroe Islands:
  8% (1999 est.)

Fiji:
  2.9% (1995)

Finland:
  7.5% (2000)

France:
  3.5% (2000 est.)

French Guiana:
  NA%

French Polynesia:
  NA%

Gabon:
  2.3% (1995)

Gambia, The:
  NA%

Gaza Strip:
  NA%

Georgia:
  -0.3% (1998 est.)

Germany:
  4.7% (2000)

Ghana:
  4.2% (1996 est.)

Gibraltar:
  NA%

Greece:
  7% (2000 est.)

Greenland:
  NA%

Grenada:
  0.7% (1997 est.)

Guadeloupe:
  NA%

Guam:
  NA%

Guatemala:
  4.1% (1999)

Guernsey:
  NA%

Guinea:
  3.2% (1994)

Guinea-Bissau:
  2.6% (1997 est.)

Guyana:
  7.1% (1997 est.)

Haiti:
  0.6% (1997 est.)

Honduras:
  4% (1999 est.)

Hong Kong:
  2.1% (2000)

Hungary:
  18% (2000 est.)

Iceland:
  1.5% (2000 est.)

India:
  7.5% (2000 est.)

Indonesia:
  7.5% (2000 est.)

Iran:
  4.4% (nonoil) (1999)

Iraq:
  NA%

Ireland:
  14% (2000 est.)

Israel:
  7% (2000)

Italy:
  1.9% (2000)

Jamaica:
  -2% (2000 est.)

Japan:
  5.3% (2000 est.)

Jersey:
  NA%

Jordan:
  3.8% (2000 est.)

Kazakhstan:
  14.9% (2000 est.)

Kenya:
  0.5% (2000 est.)

Kiribati:
  0.7% (1992 est.)

Korea, North:
  NA%

Korea, South:
  17% (2000)

Kuwait:
  1% (1997 est.)

Kyrgyzstan:
  7% (2000 est.)



Laos:
  7.5% (1999 est.)

Latvia:
  6.3% (2000 est.)

Lebanon:
  NA%

Lesotho:
  15.5% (1999 est.)

Liberia:
  NA

Libya:
  NA%

Liechtenstein:
  NA%

Lithuania:
  2.3% (2000 est.)

Luxembourg:
  7.8% (2000 est.)

Macau:
  NA%

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  3% (2000)

Madagascar:
  3% (2000 est.)

Malawi:
  NA%

Malaysia:
  12.1% (2000 est.)

Maldives:
  4.4% (1996 est.)

Mali:
  NA

Malta:
  NA%

Man, Isle of:
  3.2% (FY96/97)

Marshall Islands:
  NA%

Martinique:
  NA%

Mauritania:
  2.2% (1999)

Mauritius:
  8% (2000 est.)

Mayotte:
  NA%

Mexico:
  7.5% (2000 est.)

Micronesia, Federated States of:
  NA%

Moldova:
  3% (2000 est.)

Monaco:
  NA%

Mongolia:
  2.4% (2000 est.)

Montserrat:
  NA%

Morocco:
  0.5% (1999 est.)

Mozambique:
  7.2% (1999)

Namibia:
  NA

Nauru:
  NA%

Nepal:
  NA%

Netherlands:
  3.2% (2000)

Netherlands Antilles:
  NA%

New Caledonia:
  -0.6% (1996)

New Zealand:
  6.2% (2000)

Nicaragua:
  4.4% (2000 est.)

Niger:
  NA%

Nigeria:
  1.5% (2000 est.)

Niue:
  NA%

Norfolk Island:
  NA%

Northern Mariana Islands:
  NA%

Norway:
  3% (2000 est.)

Oman:
  4% (2000 est.)

Pakistan:
  3.8% (1999 est.)

Palau:
  NA%

Panama:
  2% (2000 est.)

Papua New Guinea:
  NA%

Paraguay:
  0% (2000 est.)

Peru:
  8.5% (2000 est.)

Philippines:
  4% (2000 est.)

Pitcairn Islands:
  NA%

Poland:
  4.3% (1999)

Portugal:
  2.9% (1999 est.)

Puerto Rico:
  NA%

Qatar:
  NA%

Reunion:
  NA%

Romania:
  8% (2000)

Russia:
  8.8% (2000 est.)

Rwanda:
  8.7% (1998 est.)

Saint Helena:
  NA%

Saint Kitts and Nevis:
  NA%

Saint Lucia:
  -8.9% (1997 est.)

Saint Pierre and Miquelon:
  NA%

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:
  -0.9% (1997 est.)

Samoa:
  10% (2000 est.)

San Marino:
  6% (1997 est.)

Sao Tome and Principe:
  NA%

Saudi Arabia:
  1% (1997 est.)

Senegal:
  7% (1998 est.)

Seychelles:
  NA%

Sierra Leone:
  NA%

Singapore:
  14% (2000 est.)

Slovakia:
  9.3% (2000 est.)

Slovenia:
  6.2% (2000)

Solomon Islands:
  NA%

Somalia:
  NA%

South Africa:
  2.4% (2000 est.)

Spain:
  4.5% (2000 est.)

Sri Lanka:
  4% (1999)

Sudan:
  5% (1996 est.)

Suriname:
  6.5% (1994 est.)

Svalbard:
  NA%

Swaziland:
  3.7% (FY95/96)

Sweden:
  7% (2000 est.)

Switzerland:
  8.6% (2000 est.)

Syria:
  NA%

Tajikistan:
  10% (2000 est.)

Tanzania:
  8.4% (1999 est.)

Thailand:
  3% (2000 est.)

Togo:
  NA%

Tokelau:
  NA%

Tonga:
  8.6% (FY98/99)

Trinidad and Tobago:
  3.8% (2000)

Tunisia:
  4.1% (2000 est.)

Turkey:
  6.2% (2000 est.)

Turkmenistan:
  18% (2000 est.)

Turks and Caicos Islands:
  NA%

Tuvalu:
  NA%

Uganda:
  7% (1999)

Ukraine:
  12.9% (2000 est.)

United Arab Emirates:
  4% (2000)

United Kingdom:
  2% (2000)

United States:
  5.6% (2000 est.)

Uruguay:
  -2.1% (2000 est.)

Uzbekistan:
  6.4% (2000 est.)

Vanuatu:
  1% (1997 est.)

Venezuela:
  NA

Vietnam:
  10.7% (2000 est.)

Virgin Islands:
  NA%

Wallis and Futuna:
  NA%

West Bank:
  NA%

Western Sahara:
  NA%

World:
  6% (2000 est.)

Yemen:
  NA%

Yugoslavia:
  -22% (1999 est.)

Zambia:
  6.1% (2000 est.)

Zimbabwe:
  NA%

Taiwan:
  8% (2000 est.)

======================================================================

@Industries



Afghanistan:
  small-scale production of textiles, soap, furniture,
  shoes, fertilizer, and cement; handwoven carpets; natural gas, oil,
  coal, copper

Albania:
  food processing, textiles and clothing; lumber, oil,
  cement, chemicals, mining, basic metals, hydropower

Algeria:
  petroleum, natural gas, light industries, mining,
  electrical, petrochemical, food processing

American Samoa:
  tuna canneries (largely dependent on foreign fishing
  vessels), handicrafts

Andorra:
  tourism (particularly skiing), cattle raising, timber,
  tobacco, banking

Angola:
  petroleum; diamonds, iron ore, phosphates, feldspar,
  bauxite, uranium, and gold; cement; basic metal products; fish
  processing; food processing; brewing; tobacco products; sugar;
  textiles

Anguilla:
  tourism, boat building, offshore financial services

Antigua and Barbuda:
  tourism, construction, light manufacturing
  (clothing, alcohol, household appliances)

Argentina:
  food processing, motor vehicles, consumer durables,
  textiles, chemicals and petrochemicals, printing, metallurgy, steel

Armenia:
  metal-cutting machine tools, forging-pressing machines,
  electric motors, tires, knitted wear, hosiery, shoes, silk fabric,
  chemicals, trucks, instruments, microelectronics, gem cutting,
  jewelry manufacturing, software development, brandy

Aruba:
  tourism, transshipment facilities, oil refining

Australia:
  mining, industrial and transportation equipment, food
  processing, chemicals, steel

Austria:
  construction, machinery, vehicles and parts, food,
  chemicals, lumber and wood processing, paper and paperboard,
  communications equipment, tourism

Azerbaijan:
  petroleum and natural gas, petroleum products, oilfield
  equipment; steel, iron ore, cement; chemicals and petrochemicals;
  textiles

Bahamas, The:
  tourism, banking, cement, oil refining and
  transshipment, salt, rum, aragonite, pharmaceuticals, spiral-welded
  steel pipe

Bahrain:
  petroleum processing and refining, aluminum smelting,
  offshore banking, ship repairing; tourism

Bangladesh:
  cotton textiles, jute, garments, tea processing, paper
  newsprint, cement, chemical fertilizer, light engineering, sugar

Barbados:
  tourism, sugar, light manufacturing, component assembly
  for export

Belarus:
  metal-cutting machine tools, tractors, trucks, earth
  movers, motorcycles, television sets, chemical fibers, fertilizer,
  textiles, radios, refrigerators

Belgium:
  engineering and metal products, motor vehicle assembly,
  processed food and beverages, chemicals, basic metals, textiles,
  glass, petroleum, coal

Belize:
  garment production, food processing, tourism, construction

Benin:
  textiles, cigarettes; beverages, food; construction
  materials, petroleum

Bermuda:
  tourism, finance, insurance, structural concrete products,
  paints, perfumes, pharmaceuticals, ship repairing

Bhutan:
  cement, wood products, processed fruits, alcoholic
  beverages, calcium carbide

Bolivia:
  mining, smelting, petroleum, food and beverages, tobacco,
  handicrafts, clothing

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  steel, coal, iron ore, lead, zinc,
  manganese, bauxite, vehicle assembly, textiles, tobacco products,
  wooden furniture, tank and aircraft assembly, domestic appliances,
  oil refining

Botswana:
  diamonds, copper, nickel, coal, salt, soda ash, potash;
  livestock processing

Brazil:
  textiles, shoes, chemicals, cement, lumber, iron ore, tin,
  steel, aircraft, motor vehicles and parts, other machinery and
  equipment

British Virgin Islands:
  tourism, light industry, construction, rum,
  concrete block, offshore financial center

Brunei:
  petroleum, petroleum refining, liquefied natural gas,
  construction

Bulgaria:
  electricity, gas and water; food, beverages and tobacco;
  machinery and equipment, base metals, chemical products, coke,
  refined petroleum, nuclear fuel

Burkina Faso:
  cotton lint, beverages, agricultural processing, soap,
  cigarettes, textiles, gold

Burma:
  agricultural processing; textiles and footwear; wood and wood
  products; copper, tin, tungsten, iron; construction materials;
  pharmaceuticals; fertilizer

Burundi:
  light consumer goods such as blankets, shoes, soap;
  assembly of imported components; public works construction; food
  processing

Cambodia:
  garments, tourism, rice milling, fishing, wood and wood
  products, rubber, cement, gem mining, textiles

Cameroon:
  petroleum production and refining, food processing, light
  consumer goods, textiles, lumber

Canada:
  processed and unprocessed minerals, food products, wood and
  paper products, transportation equipment, chemicals, fish products,
  petroleum and natural gas

Cape Verde:
  food and beverages, fish processing, shoes and garments,
  salt mining, ship repair

Cayman Islands:
  tourism, banking, insurance and finance,
  construction, construction materials, furniture

Central African Republic:
  diamond mining, sawmills, breweries,
  textiles, footwear, assembly of bicycles and motorcycles

Chad:
  cotton textiles, meatpacking, beer brewing, natron (sodium
  carbonate), soap, cigarettes, construction materials

Chile:
  copper, other minerals, foodstuffs, fish processing, iron and
  steel, wood and wood products, transport equipment, cement, textiles

China:
  iron and steel, coal, machine building, armaments, textiles
  and apparel, petroleum, cement, chemical fertilizers, footwear,
  toys, food processing, automobiles, consumer electronics,
  telecommunications

Christmas Island:
  tourism, phosphate extraction (near depletion)

Cocos (Keeling) Islands:
  copra products and tourism

Colombia:
  textiles, food processing, oil, clothing and footwear,
  beverages, chemicals, cement; gold, coal, emeralds

Comoros:
  tourism, perfume distillation, textiles, furniture,
  jewelry, construction materials, soft drinks

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  mining (diamonds, copper, zinc),
  mineral processing, consumer products (including textiles, footwear,
  cigarettes, processed foods and beverages), cement

Congo, Republic of the:
  petroleum extraction, cement kilning,
  lumbering, brewing, sugar milling, palm oil, soap, flour, cigarette
  making

Cook Islands:
  fruit processing, tourism, fishing

Costa Rica:
  microprocessors, food processing, textiles and clothing,
  construction materials, fertilizer, plastic products

Cote d'Ivoire:
  foodstuffs, beverages; wood products, oil refining,
  truck and bus assembly, textiles, fertilizer, building materials,
  electricity

Croatia:
  chemicals and plastics, machine tools, fabricated metal,
  electronics, pig iron and rolled steel products, aluminum, paper,
  wood products, construction materials, textiles, shipbuilding,
  petroleum and petroleum refining, food and beverages; tourism

Cuba:
  sugar, petroleum, tobacco, chemicals, construction, services,
  nickel, steel, cement, agricultural machinery

Cyprus:
  food, beverages, textiles, chemicals, metal products,
  tourism, wood products

Czech Republic:
  metallurgy, machinery and equipment, motor vehicles,
  glass, armaments

Denmark:
  food processing, machinery and equipment, textiles and
  clothing, chemical products, electronics, construction, furniture,
  and other wood products, shipbuilding, windmills

Djibouti:
  limited to a few small-scale enterprises, such as dairy
  products and mineral-water bottling

Dominica:
  soap, coconut oil, tourism, copra, furniture, cement
  blocks, shoes

Dominican Republic:
  tourism, sugar processing, ferronickel and gold
  mining, textiles, cement, tobacco

Ecuador:
  petroleum, food processing, textiles, metal work, paper
  products, wood products, chemicals, plastics, fishing, lumber

Egypt:
  textiles, food processing, tourism, chemicals, hydrocarbons,
  construction, cement, metals

El Salvador:
  food processing, beverages, petroleum, chemicals,
  fertilizer, textiles, furniture, light metals

Equatorial Guinea:
  petroleum, fishing, sawmilling, natural gas

Eritrea:
  food processing, beverages, clothing and textiles

Estonia:
  oil shale, shipbuilding, phosphates, electric motors,
  excavators, cement, furniture, clothing, textiles, paper, shoes,
  apparel

Ethiopia:
  food processing, beverages, textiles, chemicals, metals
  processing, cement

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas):
  wool and fish processing; sale of
  stamps and coins

Faroe Islands:
  fishing, fish processing, shipbuilding, construction,
  handicrafts

Fiji:
  tourism, sugar, clothing, copra, gold, silver, lumber, small
  cottage industries

Finland:
  metal products, shipbuilding, pulp and paper, copper
  refining, foodstuffs, chemicals, textiles, clothing

France:
  machinery, chemicals, automobiles, metallurgy, aircraft,
  electronics; textiles, food processing; tourism

French Guiana:
  construction, shrimp processing, forestry products,
  rum, gold mining

French Polynesia:
  tourism, pearls, agricultural processing,
  handicrafts

Gabon:
  food and beverage; textile; lumbering and plywood; cement;
  petroleum extraction and refining; manganese, uranium, and gold
  mining; chemicals; ship repair

Gambia, The:
  processing peanuts, fish, and hides; tourism;
  beverages; agricultural machinery assembly, woodworking,
  metalworking; clothing

Gaza Strip:
  generally small family businesses that produce textiles,
  soap, olive-wood carvings, and mother-of-pearl souvenirs; the
  Israelis have established some small-scale modern industries in an
  industrial center

Georgia:
  steel, aircraft, machine tools, electric locomotives,
  trucks, tractors, textiles, shoes, chemicals, wood products, wine

Germany:
  among the world's largest and most technologically advanced
  producers of iron, steel, coal, cement, chemicals, machinery,
  vehicles, machine tools, electronics, food and beverages;
  shipbuilding; textiles

Ghana:
  mining, lumbering, light manufacturing, aluminum smelting,
  food processing

Gibraltar:
  tourism, banking and finance, ship-building and
  repairing; support to large UK naval and air bases; tobacco, mineral
  water, beer, canned fish

Greece:
  tourism; food and tobacco processing, textiles; chemicals,
  metal products; mining, petroleum

Greenland:
  fish processing (mainly shrimp and Greenland halibut),
  handicrafts, furs, small shipyards

Grenada:
  food and beverages, textiles, light assembly operations,
  tourism, construction

Guadeloupe:
  construction, cement, rum, sugar, tourism

Guam:
  US military, tourism, construction, transshipment services,
  concrete products, printing and publishing, food processing, textiles

Guatemala:
  sugar, textiles and clothing, furniture, chemicals,
  petroleum, metals, rubber, tourism

Guernsey:
  tourism, banking

Guinea:
  bauxite, gold, diamonds; alumina refining; light
  manufacturing and agricultural processing industries

Guinea-Bissau:
  agricultural products processing, beer, soft drinks

Guyana:
  bauxite, sugar, rice milling, timber, fishing (shrimp),
  textiles, gold mining

Haiti:
  sugar refining, flour milling, textiles, cement, tourism,
  light assembly industries based on imported parts

Holy See (Vatican City):
  printing and production of a small amount
  of mosaics and staff uniforms; worldwide banking and financial
  activities

Honduras:
  sugar, coffee, textiles, clothing, wood products

Hong Kong:
  textiles, clothing, tourism, electronics, plastics, toys,
  watches, clocks

Hungary:
  mining, metallurgy, construction materials, processed
  foods, textiles, chemicals (especially pharmaceuticals), motor
  vehicles

Iceland:
  fish processing; aluminum smelting, ferrosilicon
  production, geothermal power; tourism

India:
  textiles, chemicals, food processing, steel, transportation
  equipment, cement, mining, petroleum, machinery, software

Indonesia:
  petroleum and natural gas; textiles, apparel, and
  footwear; mining, cement, chemical fertilizers, plywood; rubber;
  food; tourism

Iran:
  petroleum, petrochemicals, textiles, cement and other
  construction materials, food processing (particularly sugar refining
  and vegetable oil production), metal fabricating, armaments

Iraq:
  petroleum, chemicals, textiles, construction materials, food
  processing

Ireland:
  food products, brewing, textiles, clothing; chemicals,
  pharmaceuticals, machinery, transportation equipment, glass and
  crystal; software

Israel:
  high-technology projects (including aviation,
  communications, computer-aided design and manufactures, medical
  electronics), wood and paper products, potash and phosphates, food,
  beverages, and tobacco, caustic soda, cement, diamond cutting

Italy:
  tourism, machinery, iron and steel, chemicals, food
  processing, textiles, motor vehicles, clothing, footwear, ceramics

Jamaica:
  tourism, bauxite, textiles, food processing, light
  manufactures, rum, cement, metal, paper, chemical products

Japan:
  among world's largest and technologically advanced producers
  of motor vehicles, electronic equipment, machine tools, steel and
  nonferrous metals, ships, chemicals; textiles, processed foods

Jersey:
  tourism, banking and finance, dairy

Jordan:
  phosphate mining, petroleum refining, cement, potash, light
  manufacturing, tourism

Kazakhstan:
  oil, coal, iron ore, manganese, chromite, lead, zinc,
  copper, titanium, bauxite, gold, silver, phosphates, sulfur, iron
  and steel, nonferrous metal, tractors and other agricultural
  machinery, electric motors, construction materials

Kenya:
  small-scale consumer goods (plastic, furniture, batteries,
  textiles, soap, cigarettes, flour), agricultural products
  processing; oil refining, cement; tourism

Kiribati:
  fishing, handicrafts

Korea, North:
  military products; machine building, electric power,
  chemicals; mining (coal, iron ore, magnesite, graphite, copper,
  zinc, lead, and precious metals), metallurgy; textiles, food
  processing; tourism

Korea, South:
  electronics, automobile production, chemicals,
  shipbuilding, steel, textiles, clothing, footwear, food processing

Kuwait:
  petroleum, petrochemicals, desalination, food processing,
  construction materials

Kyrgyzstan:
  small machinery, textiles, food processing, cement,
  shoes, sawn logs, refrigerators, furniture, electric motors, gold,
  rare earth metals

Laos:
  tin and gypsum mining, timber, electric power, agricultural
  processing, construction, garments, tourism

Latvia:
  buses, vans, street and railroad cars, synthetic fibers,
  agricultural machinery, fertilizers, washing machines, radios,
  electronics, pharmaceuticals, processed foods, textiles; note -
  dependent on imports for energy, raw materials, and intermediate
  products

Lebanon:
  banking; food processing; jewelry; cement; textiles;
  mineral and chemical products; wood and furniture products; oil
  refining; metal fabricating

Lesotho:
  food, beverages, textiles, handicrafts; construction;
  tourism

Liberia:
  rubber processing, palm oil processing, diamonds

Libya:
  petroleum, food processing, textiles, handicrafts, cement

Liechtenstein:
  electronics, metal manufacturing, textiles, ceramics,
  pharmaceuticals, food products, precision instruments, tourism

Lithuania:
  metal-cutting machine tools, electric motors, television
  sets, refrigerators and freezers, petroleum refining, shipbuilding
  (small ships), furniture making, textiles, food processing,
  fertilizers, agricultural machinery, optical equipment, electronic
  components, computers, amber

Luxembourg:
  banking, iron and steel, food processing, chemicals,
  metal products, engineering, tires, glass, aluminum

Macau:
  clothing, textiles, toys, electronics, footwear, tourism,
  gambling

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  coal, metallic chromium,
  lead, zinc, ferronickel, textiles, wood products, tobacco

Madagascar:
  meat processing, soap, breweries, tanneries, sugar,
  textiles, glassware, cement, automobile assembly plant, paper,
  petroleum, tourism

Malawi:
  tobacco, tea, sugar, sawmill products, cement, consumer goods

Malaysia:
  Peninsular Malaysia - rubber and oil palm processing and
  manufacturing, light manufacturing industry, electronics, tin mining
  and smelting, logging and processing timber; Sabah - logging,
  petroleum production; Sarawak - agriculture processing, petroleum
  production and refining, logging

Maldives:
  fish processing, tourism, shipping, boat building, coconut
  processing, garments, woven mats, rope, handicrafts, coral and sand
  mining

Mali:
  minor local consumer goods production and food processing;
  construction; phosphate and gold mining

Malta:
  tourism; electronics, ship building and repair, construction;
  food and beverages, textiles, footwear, clothing, tobacco

Man, Isle of:
  financial services, light manufacturing, tourism

Marshall Islands:
  copra, fish, tourism, craft items from shell,
  wood, and pearls, offshore banking (embryonic)

Martinique:
  construction, rum, cement, oil refining, sugar, tourism

Mauritania:
  fish processing, mining of iron ore and gypsum

Mauritius:
  food processing (largely sugar milling), textiles,
  clothing; chemicals, metal products, transport equipment,
  nonelectrical machinery; tourism

Mayotte:
  newly created lobster and shrimp industry, construction

Mexico:
  food and beverages, tobacco, chemicals, iron and steel,
  petroleum, mining, textiles, clothing, motor vehicles, consumer
  durables, tourism

Micronesia, Federated States of:
  tourism, construction, fish
  processing, craft items from shell, wood, and pearls

Moldova:
  food processing, agricultural machinery, foundry equipment,
  refrigerators and freezers, washing machines, hosiery, sugar,
  vegetable oil, shoes, textiles

Monaco:
  tourism, construction, small-scale industrial and consumer
  products

Mongolia:
  construction materials, mining (particularly coal and
  copper); food and beverages, processing of animal products

Montserrat:
  tourism, rum, textiles, electronic appliances

Morocco:
  phosphate rock mining and processing, food processing,
  leather goods, textiles, construction, tourism

Mozambique:
  food, beverages, chemicals (fertilizer, soap, paints),
  petroleum products, textiles, cement, glass, asbestos, tobacco

Namibia:
  meatpacking, fish processing, dairy products; mining
  (diamond, lead, zinc, tin, silver, tungsten, uranium, copper)

Nauru:
  phosphate mining, financial services, coconut products

Nepal:
  tourism, carpet, textile; small rice, jute, sugar, and
  oilseed mills; cigarette; cement and brick production

Netherlands:
  agroindustries, metal and engineering products,
  electrical machinery and equipment, chemicals, petroleum,
  construction, microelectronics, fishing

Netherlands Antilles:
  tourism (Curacao, Sint Maarten, and Bonaire),
  petroleum refining (Curacao), petroleum transshipment facilities
  (Curacao and Bonaire), light manufacturing (Curacao)

New Caledonia:
  nickel mining and smelting

New Zealand:
  food processing, wood and paper products, textiles,
  machinery, transportation equipment, banking and insurance, tourism,
  mining

Nicaragua:
  food processing, chemicals, machinery and metal products,
  textiles, clothing, petroleum refining and distribution, beverages,
  footwear, wood

Niger:
  uranium mining, cement, brick, textiles, food processing,
  chemicals, slaughterhouses

Nigeria:
  crude oil, coal, tin, columbite, palm oil, peanuts, cotton,
  rubber, wood, hides and skins, textiles, cement and other
  construction materials, food products, footwear, chemicals,
  fertilizer, printing, ceramics, steel

Niue:
  tourism, handicrafts, food processing

Norfolk Island:
  tourism

Northern Mariana Islands:
  tourism, construction, garments,
  handicrafts

Norway:
  petroleum and gas, food processing, shipbuilding, pulp and
  paper products, metals, chemicals, timber, mining, textiles, fishing

Oman:
  crude oil production and refining, natural gas production,
  construction, cement, copper

Pakistan:
  textiles, food processing, beverages, construction
  materials, clothing, paper products, shrimp

Palau:
  tourism, craft items (from shell, wood, pearls),
  construction, garment making

Panama:
  construction, petroleum refining, brewing, cement and other
  construction materials, sugar milling

Papua New Guinea:
  copra crushing, palm oil processing, plywood
  production, wood chip production; mining of gold, silver, and
  copper; crude oil production; construction, tourism

Paraguay:
  sugar, cement, textiles, beverages, wood products

Peru:
  mining of metals, petroleum, fishing, textiles, clothing, food
  processing, cement, auto assembly, steel, shipbuilding, metal
  fabrication

Philippines:
  textiles, pharmaceuticals, chemicals, wood products,
  food processing, electronics assembly, petroleum refining, fishing

Pitcairn Islands:
  postage stamps, handicrafts

Poland:
  machine building, iron and steel, coal mining, chemicals,
  shipbuilding, food processing, glass, beverages, textiles

Portugal:
  textiles and footwear; wood pulp, paper, and cork;
  metalworking; oil refining; chemicals; fish canning; wine; tourism

Puerto Rico:
  pharmaceuticals, electronics, apparel, food products;
  tourism

Qatar:
  crude oil production and refining, fertilizers,
  petrochemicals, steel reinforcing bars, cement

Reunion:
  sugar, rum, cigarettes, handicraft items, flower oil
  extraction

Romania:
  textiles and footwear, light machinery and auto assembly,
  mining, timber, construction materials, metallurgy, chemicals, food
  processing, petroleum refining

Russia:
  complete range of mining and extractive industries producing
  coal, oil, gas, chemicals, and metals; all forms of machine building
  from rolling mills to high-performance aircraft and space vehicles;
  shipbuilding; road and rail transportation equipment; communications
  equipment; agricultural machinery, tractors, and construction
  equipment; electric power generating and transmitting equipment;
  medical and scientific instruments; consumer durables, textiles,
  foodstuffs, handicrafts

Rwanda:
  cement, agricultural products, small-scale beverages, soap,
  furniture, shoes, plastic goods, textiles, cigarettes

Saint Helena:
  construction, crafts (furniture, lacework, fancy
  woodwork), fishing

Saint Kitts and Nevis:
  sugar processing, tourism, cotton, salt,
  copra, clothing, footwear, beverages

Saint Lucia:
  clothing, assembly of electronic components, beverages,
  corrugated cardboard boxes, tourism, lime processing, coconut
  processing

Saint Pierre and Miquelon:
  fish processing and supply base for
  fishing fleets; tourism

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:
  food processing, cement,
  furniture, clothing, starch

Samoa:
  food processing, building materials, auto parts

San Marino:
  tourism, banking, textiles, electronics, ceramics,
  cement, wine

Sao Tome and Principe:
  light construction, textiles, soap, beer;
  fish processing; timber

Saudi Arabia:
  crude oil production, petroleum refining, basic
  petrochemicals, cement, construction, fertilizer, plastics

Senegal:
  agricultural and fish processing, phosphate mining,
  fertilizer production, petroleum refining, construction materials

Seychelles:
  fishing; tourism; processing of coconuts and vanilla,
  coir (coconut fiber) rope, boat building, printing, furniture;
  beverages

Sierra Leone:
  mining (diamonds); small-scale manufacturing
  (beverages, textiles, cigarettes, footwear); petroleum refining

Singapore:
  electronics, chemicals, financial services, oil drilling
  equipment, petroleum refining, rubber processing and rubber
  products, processed food and beverages, ship repair, entrepot trade,
  biotechnology

Slovakia:
  metal and metal products; food and beverages; electricity,
  gas, coke, oil, nuclear fuel; chemicals and manmade fibers;
  machinery; paper and printing; earthenware and ceramics; transport
  vehicles; textiles; electrical and optical apparatus; rubber products

Slovenia:
  ferrous metallurgy and rolling mill products, aluminum
  reduction and rolled products, lead and zinc smelting, electronics
  (including military electronics), trucks, electric power equipment,
  wood products, textiles, chemicals, machine tools

Solomon Islands:
  fish (tuna), mining, timber

Somalia:
  a few small industries, including sugar refining, textiles,
  petroleum refining (mostly shut down), wireless communication

South Africa:
  mining (world's largest producer of platinum, gold,
  chromium), automobile assembly, metalworking, machinery, textile,
  iron and steel, chemicals, fertilizer, foodstuffs

Spain:
  textiles and apparel (including footwear), food and
  beverages, metals and metal manufactures, chemicals, shipbuilding,
  automobiles, machine tools, tourism

Sri Lanka:
  processing of rubber, tea, coconuts, and other
  agricultural commodities; clothing, cement, petroleum refining,
  textiles, tobacco

Sudan:
  cotton ginning, textiles, cement, edible oils, sugar, soap
  distilling, shoes, petroleum refining, pharmaceuticals, armaments

Suriname:
  bauxite and gold mining, alumina production, lumbering,
  food processing, fishing

Swaziland:
  mining (coal and asbestos), wood pulp, sugar, soft drink
  concentrates

Sweden:
  iron and steel, precision equipment (bearings, radio and
  telephone parts, armaments), wood pulp and paper products, processed
  foods, motor vehicles

Switzerland:
  machinery, chemicals, watches, textiles, precision
  instruments

Syria:
  petroleum, textiles, food processing, beverages, tobacco,
  phosphate rock mining

Tajikistan:
  aluminum, zinc, lead, chemicals and fertilizers, cement,
  vegetable oil, metal-cutting machine tools, refrigerators and
  freezers

Tanzania:
  primarily agricultural processing (sugar, beer,
  cigarettes, sisal twine), diamond and gold mining, oil refining,
  shoes, cement, textiles, wood products, fertilizer, salt

Thailand:
  tourism; textiles and garments, agricultural processing,
  beverages, tobacco, cement, light manufacturing, such as jewelry;
  electric appliances and components, computers and parts, integrated
  circuits, furniture, plastics; world's second-largest tungsten
  producer and third-largest tin producer

Togo:
  phosphate mining, agricultural processing, cement;
  handicrafts, textiles, beverages

Tokelau:
  small-scale enterprises for copra production, woodworking,
  plaited craft goods; stamps, coins; fishing

Tonga:
  tourism, fishing

Trinidad and Tobago:
  petroleum, chemicals, tourism, food processing,
  cement, beverage, cotton textiles

Tunisia:
  petroleum, mining (particularly phosphate and iron ore),
  tourism, textiles, footwear, food, beverages

Turkey:
  textiles, food processing, autos, mining (coal, chromite,
  copper, boron), steel, petroleum, construction, lumber, paper

Turkmenistan:
  natural gas, oil, petroleum products, textiles, food
  processing

Turks and Caicos Islands:
  tourism, offshore financial services

Tuvalu:
  fishing, tourism, copra

Uganda:
  sugar, brewing, tobacco, cotton textiles, cement

Ukraine:
  coal, electric power, ferrous and nonferrous metals,
  machinery and transport equipment, chemicals, food processing
  (especially sugar)

United Arab Emirates:
  petroleum, fishing, petrochemicals,
  construction materials, some boat building, handicrafts, pearling

United Kingdom:
  machine tools, electric power equipment, automation
  equipment, railroad equipment, shipbuilding, aircraft, motor
  vehicles and parts, electronics and communications equipment,
  metals, chemicals, coal, petroleum, paper and paper products, food
  processing, textiles, clothing, and other consumer goods

United States:
  leading industrial power in the world, highly
  diversified and technologically advanced; petroleum, steel, motor
  vehicles, aerospace, telecommunications, chemicals, electronics,
  food processing, consumer goods, lumber, mining

Uruguay:
  food processing, electrical machinery, transportation
  equipment, petroleum products, textiles, chemicals, beverages

Uzbekistan:
  textiles, food processing, machine building, metallurgy,
  natural gas, chemicals

Vanuatu:
  food and fish freezing, wood processing, meat canning

Venezuela:
  petroleum, iron ore mining, construction materials, food
  processing, textiles, steel, aluminum, motor vehicle assembly

Vietnam:
  food processing, garments, shoes, machine building, mining,
  cement, chemical fertilizer, glass, tires, oil, coal, steel, paper

Virgin Islands:
  tourism, petroleum refining, watch assembly, rum
  distilling, construction, pharmaceuticals, textiles, electronics

Wallis and Futuna:
  copra, handicrafts, fishing, lumber

West Bank:
  generally small family businesses that produce cement,
  textiles, soap, olive-wood carvings, and mother-of-pearl souvenirs;
  the Israelis have established some small-scale, modern industries in
  the settlements and industrial centers

Western Sahara:
  phosphate mining, handicrafts

World:
  dominated by the onrush of technology, especially in
  computers, robotics, telecommunications, and medicines and medical
  equipment; most of these advances take place in OECD nations; only a
  small portion of non-OECD countries have succeeded in rapidly
  adjusting to these technological forces; the accelerated development
  of new industrial (and agricultural) technology is complicating
  already grim environmental problems

Yemen:
  crude oil production and petroleum refining; small-scale
  production of cotton textiles and leather goods; food processing;
  handicrafts; small aluminum products factory; cement

Yugoslavia:
  machine building (aircraft, trucks, and automobiles;
  tanks and weapons; electrical equipment; agricultural machinery);
  metallurgy (steel, aluminum, copper, lead, zinc, chromium, antimony,
  bismuth, cadmium); mining (coal, bauxite, nonferrous ore, iron ore,
  limestone); consumer goods (textiles, footwear, foodstuffs,
  appliances); electronics, petroleum products, chemicals, and
  pharmaceuticals

Zambia:
  copper mining and processing, construction, foodstuffs,
  beverages, chemicals, textiles, fertilizer

Zimbabwe:
  mining (coal, gold, copper, nickel, tin, clay, numerous
  metallic and nonmetallic ores), steel, wood products, cement,
  chemicals, fertilizer, clothing and footwear, foodstuffs, beverages

Taiwan:
  electronics, petroleum refining, chemicals, textiles, iron
  and steel, machinery, cement, food processing

======================================================================

@Infant mortality rate



Afghanistan:
  147.02 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Albania:
  39.99 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Algeria:
  40.56 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

American Samoa:
  10.36 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Andorra:
  4.08 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Angola:
  193.72 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Anguilla:
  24.56 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Antigua and Barbuda:
  22.33 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Argentina:
  17.75 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Armenia:
  41.27 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Aruba:
  6.39 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Australia:
  4.97 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Austria:
  4.44 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Azerbaijan:
  83.08 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Bahamas, The:
  17.03 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Bahrain:
  19.77 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Bangladesh:
  69.85 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Barbados:
  12.04 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Belarus:
  14.38 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Belgium:
  4.7 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Belize:
  25.14 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Benin:
  89.68 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Bermuda:
  9.55 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Bhutan:
  108.89 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Bolivia:
  58.98 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  24.35 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Botswana:
  63.2 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Brazil:
  36.96 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

British Virgin Islands:
  20.3 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Brunei:
  14.4 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Bulgaria:
  14.65 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Burkina Faso:
  106.92 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Burma:
  73.71 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Burundi:
  70.74 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Cambodia:
  65.41 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Cameroon:
  69.83 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Canada:
  5.02 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Cape Verde:
  53.22 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Cayman Islands:
  10.16 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Central African Republic:
  105.25 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Chad:
  95.06 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Chile:
  9.36 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

China:
  28.08 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Christmas Island:
  NA deaths/1,000 live births

Cocos (Keeling) Islands:
  NA deaths/1,000 live births

Colombia:
  23.96 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Comoros:
  84.07 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  99.88 deaths/1,000 live births
  (2001 est.)

Congo, Republic of the:
  99.73 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Costa Rica:
  11.18 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Cote d'Ivoire:
  93.65 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Croatia:
  7.21 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Cuba:
  7.39 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Cyprus:
  7.89 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Czech Republic:
  5.55 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Denmark:
  5.04 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Djibouti:
  101.51 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Dominica:
  16.54 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Dominican Republic:
  34.67 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Ecuador:
  34.08 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Egypt:
  60.46 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

El Salvador:
  28.4 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Equatorial Guinea:
  92.9 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Eritrea:
  75.14 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Estonia:
  12.62 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Ethiopia:
  99.96 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas):
  NA deaths/1,000 live births

Faroe Islands:
  6.8 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Fiji:
  14.08 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Finland:
  3.79 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

France:
  4.46 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

French Guiana:
  13.61 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

French Polynesia:
  9.12 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Gabon:
  94.91 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Gambia, The:
  77.84 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Gaza Strip:
  25.37 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Georgia:
  52.37 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Germany:
  4.71 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Ghana:
  56.54 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Gibraltar:
  5.49 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Greece:
  6.38 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Greenland:
  17.77 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Grenada:
  14.63 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Guadeloupe:
  9.53 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Guam:
  6.71 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Guatemala:
  45.79 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Guernsey:
  5 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Guinea:
  129.03 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Guinea-Bissau:
  110.4 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Guyana:
  38.72 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Haiti:
  95.23 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Honduras:
  30.88 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Hong Kong:
  5.83 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Hungary:
  8.96 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Iceland:
  3.56 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

India:
  63.19 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Indonesia:
  40.91 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Iran:
  29.04 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Iraq:
  60.05 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Ireland:
  5.53 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Israel:
  7.72 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Italy:
  5.84 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Jamaica:
  14.16 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Japan:
  3.88 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Jersey:
  5.62 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Jordan:
  20.36 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Kazakhstan:
  59.17 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Kenya:
  67.99 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Kiribati:
  54 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Korea, North:
  23.55 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Korea, South:
  7.71 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Kuwait:
  11.18 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Kyrgyzstan:
  76.5 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Laos:
  92.89 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Latvia:
  15.34 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Lebanon:
  28.35 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Lesotho:
  82.77 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Liberia:
  132.42 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Libya:
  28.99 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Liechtenstein:
  4.99 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Lithuania:
  14.5 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Luxembourg:
  4.77 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Macau:
  4.47 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  12.95 deaths/1,000 live
  births (2001 est.)

Madagascar:
  83.58 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Malawi:
  121.12 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Malaysia:
  20.31 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Maldives:
  63.72 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Mali:
  121.44 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Malta:
  5.83 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Man, Isle of:
  6.42 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Marshall Islands:
  39.82 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Martinique:
  7.8 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Mauritania:
  76.7 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Mauritius:
  17.19 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Mayotte:
  69.54 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Mexico:
  25.36 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Moldova:
  42.74 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Monaco:
  5.83 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Mongolia:
  53.5 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Montserrat:
  8.19 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Morocco:
  48.11 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Mozambique:
  139.2 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Namibia:
  71.66 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Nauru:
  10.71 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Nepal:
  74.14 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Netherlands:
  4.37 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Netherlands Antilles:
  11.4 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

New Caledonia:
  8.4 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

New Zealand:
  6.28 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Nicaragua:
  33.66 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Niger:
  123.57 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Nigeria:
  73.34 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Niue:
  NA deaths/1,000 live births

Norfolk Island:
  NA deaths/1,000 live births

Northern Mariana Islands:
  5.7 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Norway:
  3.94 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Oman:
  22.52 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Pakistan:
  80.5 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Palau:
  16.67 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Panama:
  20.18 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Papua New Guinea:
  58.21 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Paraguay:
  29.78 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Peru:
  39.39 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Philippines:
  28.7 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Pitcairn Islands:
  NA deaths/1,000 live births

Poland:
  9.39 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Portugal:
  5.94 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Puerto Rico:
  9.51 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Qatar:
  21.44 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Reunion:
  8.49 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Romania:
  19.36 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Russia:
  20.05 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Rwanda:
  118.92 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Saint Helena:
  22.38 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Saint Kitts and Nevis:
  16.28 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Saint Lucia:
  15.22 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Saint Pierre and Miquelon:
  8.39 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:
  16.61 deaths/1,000 live births
  (2001 est.)

Samoa:
  31.75 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

San Marino:
  6.21 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Sao Tome and Principe:
  48.96 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Saudi Arabia:
  51.25 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Senegal:
  56.75 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Seychelles:
  17.3 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Sierra Leone:
  146.52 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Singapore:
  3.62 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Slovakia:
  8.97 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Slovenia:
  4.51 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Solomon Islands:
  24.47 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Somalia:
  123.97 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

South Africa:
  60.33 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Spain:
  4.92 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Sri Lanka:
  16.08 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Sudan:
  68.67 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Suriname:
  24.27 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Svalbard:
  NA deaths/1,000 live births

Swaziland:
  109.19 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Sweden:
  3.47 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Switzerland:
  4.48 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Syria:
  33.8 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Tajikistan:
  116.09 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Tanzania:
  79.41 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Thailand:
  30.49 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Togo:
  70.43 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Tokelau:
  NA deaths/1,000 live births

Tonga:
  14.08 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Trinidad and Tobago:
  24.98 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Tunisia:
  29.04 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Turkey:
  47.34 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Turkmenistan:
  73.25 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Turks and Caicos Islands:
  18.06 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Tuvalu:
  22.65 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Uganda:
  91.3 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Ukraine:
  21.4 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

United Arab Emirates:
  16.68 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

United Kingdom:
  5.54 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

United States:
  6.76 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Uruguay:
  14.7 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Uzbekistan:
  71.92 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Vanuatu:
  61.05 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Venezuela:
  25.37 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Vietnam:
  30.24 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Virgin Islands:
  9.43 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Wallis and Futuna:
  NA deaths/1,000 live births

West Bank:
  21.78 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

World:
  52.61 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Yemen:
  68.53 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Yugoslavia:
  17.42 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Zambia:
  90.89 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Zimbabwe:
  62.61 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

Taiwan:
  6.93 deaths/1,000 live births (2001 est.)

======================================================================

@Inflation rate (consumer prices)



Afghanistan:
  NA%

Albania:
  1% (2000 est.)

Algeria:
  2% (2000 est.)

American Samoa:
  NA%

Andorra:
  1.62% (1998)

Angola:
  325% (2000 est.)

Anguilla:
  2.5% (1998 est.)

Antigua and Barbuda:
  1.6% (1999 est.)

Argentina:
  -0.9% (2000 est.)

Armenia:
  1% (1999 est.)

Aruba:
  4.2% (2000 est.)

Australia:
  1.4% (2000 est.)

Austria:
  2% (2000 est.)

Azerbaijan:
  1.8% (2000 est.)

Bahamas, The:
  1.9% (2000 est.)

Bahrain:
  2% (2000 est.)

Bangladesh:
  5.8% (2000 est.)

Barbados:
  2% (2000 est.)

Belarus:
  200% (2000 est.)

Belgium:
  2.2% (2000 est.)

Belize:
  2% (2000 est.)

Benin:
  3% (2000 est.)

Bermuda:
  2.7% (2000 est.)

Bhutan:
  7% (2000 est.)

Bolivia:
  4.4% (2000 est.)

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  8% (2000 est.)

Botswana:
  8.6% (2000 est.)

Brazil:
  6% (2000)

British Virgin Islands:
  2% (2000)

Brunei:
  1% (1999 est.)

Bulgaria:
  10.4% (2000 est.)

Burkina Faso:
  1.5% (2000 est.)

Burma:
  18% (1999)

Burundi:
  22% (2000 est.)

Cambodia:
  1.6% (2000 est.)

Cameroon:
  2% (2000 est.)

Canada:
  2.6% (2000)

Cape Verde:
  4% (2000)

Cayman Islands:
  3% (1998)

Central African Republic:
  3% (2000 est.)

Chad:
  3% (2000 est.)

Chile:
  4.5% (2000 est.)

China:
  0.4% (2000 est.)

Christmas Island:
  NA%

Cocos (Keeling) Islands:
  NA%

Colombia:
  9% (2000)

Comoros:
  3.5% (1999)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  540% (2000 est.)

Congo, Republic of the:
  3.5% (2000 est.)

Cook Islands:
  1.6% (1999 est.)

Costa Rica:
  11% (2000 est.)

Cote d'Ivoire:
  2.5% (2000 est.)

Croatia:
  6% (2000 est.)

Cuba:
  0.3% (1999 est.)

Cyprus:
  Greek Cypriot area: 4.2% (2000 est.); Turkish Cypriot area:
  58% (1999 est.)

Czech Republic:
  3.8% (2000 est.)

Denmark:
  2.9% (2000 est.)

Djibouti:
  2% (2000 est.)

Dominica:
  2.5% (2000 est.)

Dominican Republic:
  7.9% (2000 est.)

Ecuador:
  96% (2000 est.)

Egypt:
  3% (2000)

El Salvador:
  2.5% (2000 est.)

Equatorial Guinea:
  6% (1999 est.)

Eritrea:
  14% (2000 est.)

Estonia:
  4.1% (1999 est.)

Ethiopia:
  5% (2000 est.)

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas):
  3.6% (1998)

Faroe Islands:
  5.1% (1999)

Fiji:
  0% (1999 est.)

Finland:
  3.4% (2000 est.)

France:
  1.7% (2000 est.)

French Guiana:
  2.5% (1992)

French Polynesia:
  1.5% (1994)

Gabon:
  1.5% (2000 est.)

Gambia, The:
  3.4% (2000 est.)

Gaza Strip:
  3% (includes West Bank) (2000 est.)

Georgia:
  4.1% (2000 est.)

Germany:
  2% (2000 est.)

Ghana:
  22.8% (2000 est.)

Gibraltar:
  1.5% (1998)

Greece:
  3.1% (2000 est.)

Greenland:
  1.6% (1999 est.)

Grenada:
  2.5% (2000 est.)

Guadeloupe:
  NA

Guam:
  0% (1999 est.)

Guatemala:
  6% (2000 est.)

Guernsey:
  3.99% (2000 est.)

Guinea:
  6% (2000 est.)

Guinea-Bissau:
  3% (2000 est.)

Guyana:
  5.9% (2000 est.)

Haiti:
  19% (2000 est.)

Honduras:
  11% (2000 est.)

Hong Kong:
  3.7% (2000 est.)

Hungary:
  9.8% (1999 est.)

Iceland:
  3.5% (2000 est.)

India:
  5.4% (2000 est.)

Indonesia:
  9% (2000 est.)

Iran:
  16% (2000 est.)

Iraq:
  100% (2000 est.)

Ireland:
  5.6% (2000)

Israel:
  0.1% (2000 est.)

Italy:
  2.5% (2000)

Jamaica:
  8.8% (2000 est.)

Japan:
  -0.7% (2000 est.)

Jersey:
  4.7% (1998)

Jordan:
  0.7% (2000 est.)

Kazakhstan:
  13.4% (2000 est.)

Kenya:
  7% (2000 est.)

Kiribati:
  2% (1999 est.)

Korea, North:
  NA%

Korea, South:
  2.3% (2000)

Kuwait:
  3% (2000)

Kyrgyzstan:
  18.7% (2000 est.)

Laos:
  33% (2000 est.)

Latvia:
  2.7% (2000)

Lebanon:
  0% (2000 est.)

Lesotho:
  6% (2000 est.)

Liberia:
  5% (2000 est.)

Libya:
  18.5% (2000 est.)

Liechtenstein:
  0.5% (1997 est.)

Lithuania:
  1% (2000 est.)

Luxembourg:
  7.8% (2000 est.)

Macau:
  -1.8% (2000 est.)

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  11% (2000 est.)

Madagascar:
  10% (1999 est.)

Malawi:
  29.5% (2000)

Malaysia:
  1.7% (2000)

Maldives:
  3% (2000 est.)

Mali:
  0.8% (2000 est.)

Malta:
  2.5% (2000 est.)

Man, Isle of:
  2.5% (2000 est.)

Marshall Islands:
  5% (1997)

Martinique:
  3.9% (1990)

Mauritania:
  4.5% (2000 est.)

Mauritius:
  5.3% (2000 est.)

Mayotte:
  NA%

Mexico:
  9% (2000 est.)

Micronesia, Federated States of:
  2.6% (FY98/99)

Moldova:
  32% (2000 est.)

Monaco:
  NA%

Mongolia:
  7.6% (1999)

Montserrat:
  5% (1998)

Morocco:
  2% (2000 est.)

Mozambique:
  11.4% (2000 est.)

Namibia:
  9.1% (2000)

Nauru:
  -3.6% (1993)

Nepal:
  3.3% (FY99/00 est.)

Netherlands:
  2.6% (2000 est.)

Netherlands Antilles:
  6.4% (2000 est.)

New Caledonia:
  1.5% (1998 est.)

New Zealand:
  2.4% (2000 est.)

Nicaragua:
  11% (2000 est.)

Niger:
  2.8% (2000 est.)

Nigeria:
  6.5% (2000 est.)

Niue:
  1% (1995)

Norfolk Island:
  NA%

Northern Mariana Islands:
  1.2% (1997 est.)

Norway:
  2.9% (2000 est.)

Oman:
  -0.8% (2000 est.)

Pakistan:
  5.2% (2000 est.)

Palau:
  NA%

Panama:
  1.8% (2000 est.)

Papua New Guinea:
  17% (2000 est.)

Paraguay:
  8% (2000 est.)

Peru:
  3.7% (2000 est.)

Philippines:
  5% (2000 est.)

Pitcairn Islands:
  NA%

Poland:
  10.2% (2000 est.)

Portugal:
  2.8% (2000 est.)

Puerto Rico:
  5.7% (2000 est.)

Qatar:
  2.5% (2000)

Reunion:
  NA%

Romania:
  45.7% (2000 est.)

Russia:
  20.6% (2000 est.)

Rwanda:
  4% (2000)

Saint Helena:
  3.2% (1997 est.)

Saint Kitts and Nevis:
  2.5% (2000 est.)

Saint Lucia:
  2.5% (2000 est.)

Saint Pierre and Miquelon:
  2.1% (1991-96 average)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:
  2% (1999 est.)

Samoa:
  0.8% (2000 est.)

San Marino:
  2.2% (2000)

Sao Tome and Principe:
  5% (2000 est.)

Saudi Arabia:
  0.5% (2000)

Senegal:
  1.5% (2000 est.)

Seychelles:
  6% (1999 est.)

Sierra Leone:
  15% (2000 est.)

Singapore:
  1.4% (2000)

Slovakia:
  12.2% (2000 est.)

Slovenia:
  8.9% (2000 est.)

Solomon Islands:
  10% (1999 est.)

Somalia:
  over 100% (businesses print their own money) (2000 est.)

South Africa:
  5.3% (2000 est.)

Spain:
  3.4% (2000 est.)

Sri Lanka:
  8.5% (2000 est.)

Sudan:
  10% (2000 est.)

Suriname:
  78% (2000 est.)

Svalbard:
  NA%

Swaziland:
  6.4% (2000 est.)

Sweden:
  1.2% (2000 est.)

Switzerland:
  1.5% (2000 est.)

Syria:
  1.5% (2000 est.)

Tajikistan:
  33% (2000 est.)

Tanzania:
  6% (2000 est.)

Thailand:
  2.1% (2000 est.)

Togo:
  2.5% (2000 est.)

Tokelau:
  NA%

Tonga:
  7% (2000 est.)

Trinidad and Tobago:
  3.2% (2000 est.)

Tunisia:
  3% (2000 est.)

Turkey:
  39% (2000 est.)

Turkmenistan:
  14% (2000 est.)

Turks and Caicos Islands:
  4% (1995)

Tuvalu:
  7% (1999 est.)

Uganda:
  6.5% (2000)

Ukraine:
  25.8% (2000 est.)

United Arab Emirates:
  4.5% (2000 est.)

United Kingdom:
  2.4% (2000 est.)

United States:
  3.4% (2000)

Uruguay:
  4.8% (2000 est.)

Uzbekistan:
  40% (2000 est.)

Vanuatu:
  2.5% (1999 est.)

Venezuela:
  13% (2000)

Vietnam:
  -0.6% (2000 est.)

Virgin Islands:
  NA%

Wallis and Futuna:
  NA%

West Bank:
  3% (includes Gaza Strip) (2000 est.)

Western Sahara:
  NA%

World:
  all countries 25%; developed countries 1% to 3% typically;
  developing countries 5% to 60% typically (2000 est.)

  note:  national inflation rates vary widely in individual cases,
  from stable prices in Japan to hyperinflation in a number of Third
  World countries

Yemen:
  10% (2000 est.)

Yugoslavia:
  42% (1999 est.)

Zambia:
  27.3% (2000 est.)

Zimbabwe:
  60% (2000 est.)

Taiwan:
  1.3% (2000 est.)

======================================================================

@International organization participation



Afghanistan:
  AsDB, CP, ECO, ESCAP, FAO, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO,
  ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, Intelsat, IOC, IOM
  (observer), ITU, NAM, OIC, OPCW, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU,
  WFTU, WHO, WMO, WToO

Albania:
  ACCT (associate), BSEC, CCC, CE, CEI, EAPC, EBRD, ECE, FAO,
  IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO,
  Intelsat (nonsignatory user), Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO
  (correspondent), ITU, OIC, OPCW, OSCE, PFP, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO,
  UNIDO, UNOMIG, UPU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Algeria:
  ABEDA, AfDB, AFESD, AL, AMF, AMU, CCC, ECA, FAO, G-15,
  G-19, G-24, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IDB,
  IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat, Interpol,
  IOC, IOM, ISO, ITU, MONUC, NAM, OAPEC, OAS (observer), OAU, OIC,
  OPCW, OPEC, OSCE (partner), UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNMEE,
  UPU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO (observer)

American Samoa:
  ESCAP (associate), Interpol (subbureau), IOC, SPC

Andorra:
  CCC, CE, ECE, ICAO, ICRM, IFRCS, Interpol, IOC, ITU, OSCE,
  UN, UNESCO, WHO, WIPO, WToO, WTrO (observer)

Angola:
  ACP, AfDB, CCC, CEEAC, ECA, FAO, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO,
  ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Intelsat,
  Interpol, IOC, IOM, ITU, NAM, OAS (observer), OAU, SADC, UN, UNCTAD,
  UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Anguilla:
  Caricom (associate), CDB, Interpol (subbureau), OECS
  (associate), ECLAC (associate)

Antigua and Barbuda:
  ACP, C, Caricom, CDB, ECLAC, FAO, G-77, IBRD,
  ICAO, ICFTU, ICRM, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Intelsat
  (nonsignatory user), Interpol, IOC, ITU, NAM (observer), OAS, OECS,
  OPANAL, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UPU, WCL, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTrO

Argentina:
  AfDB, Australia Group, BCIE, BIS, CCC, ECLAC, FAO, G-6,
  G-11, G-15, G-19, G-24, G-77, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU,
  ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat,
  Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO, ITU, LAES, LAIA, Mercosur, MINURSO,
  MIPONUH, MTCR, NSG, OAS, OPANAL, OPCW, PCA, RG, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO,
  UNFICYP, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNIKOM, UNMEE, UNMIBH, UNMIK, UNMOP, UNTSO,
  UNU, UPU, WCL, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO, ZC

Armenia:
  BSEC, CCC, CE, CIS, EAPC, EBRD, ECE, ESCAP, FAO, IAEA,
  IBRD, ICAO, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, Intelsat,
  Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO, ITU, NAM (observer), OPCW, OSCE, PFP, UN,
  UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO
  (observer)

Aruba:
  Caricom (observer), ECLAC (associate), Interpol, IOC, UNESCO
  (associate), WCL, WToO (associate)

Australia:
  ANZUS, APEC, ARF (dialogue partner), AsDB, ASEAN
  (dialogue partner), Australia Group, BIS, C, CCC, CP, EBRD, ESCAP,
  FAO, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IEA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS,
  IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO,
  ITU, NAM (guest), NEA, NSG, OECD, OPCW, PCA, Sparteca, SPC, SPF, UN,
  UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNMEE, UNTAET, UNTSO, UNU, UPU, WFTU, WHO,
  WIPO, WMO, WTrO, ZC

Austria:
  AfDB, AsDB, Australia Group, BIS, BSEC (observer), CCC, CE,
  CEI, CERN, EAPC, EBRD, ECE, EIB, EMU, ESA, EU, FAO, G- 9, IADB,
  IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IEA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO,
  IMF, IMO, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO, ITU, MINURSO, NAM
  (guest), NEA, NSG, OAS (observer), OECD, OPCW, OSCE, PCA, PFP, UN,
  UNCTAD, UNDOF, UNESCO, UNFICYP, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNIKOM, UNITAR, UNMEE,
  UNMIBH, UNMIK, UNMOT, UNOMIG, UNTAET, UNTSO, UPU, WCL, WEU
  (observer), WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO, ZC

Azerbaijan:
  AsDB, BSEC, CCC, CE, CIS, EAPC, EBRD, ECE, ECO, ESCAP,
  FAO, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF,
  IMO, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, ISO (correspondent), ITU, NAM
  (observer), OAS (observer), OIC, OPCW, OSCE, PFP, UN, UNCTAD,
  UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTrO (observer)

Bahamas, The:
  ACP, C, Caricom, CCC, CDB, ECLAC, FAO, G-77, IADB,
  IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, ICRM, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat,
  Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, ITU, LAES, NAM, OAS, OPANAL, OPCW, UN,
  UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTrO (observer)

Bahrain:
  ABEDA, AFESD, AL, AMF, ESCWA, FAO, G-77, GCC, IBRD, ICAO,
  ICC, ICRM, IDB, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat,
  Interpol, IOC, ISO (correspondent), ITU, NAM, OAPEC, OIC, OPCW, UN,
  UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTrO

Bangladesh:
  AsDB, C, CCC, CP, ESCAP, FAO, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO,
  ICC, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO (pending member),
  ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO, ITU,
  MINURSO, MONUC, NAM, OIC, OPCW, SAARC, UN, UN Security Council
  (temporary), UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNIKOM, UNMEE, UNMIBH,
  UNMIK, UNMOP, UNMOT, UNOMIG, UNTAET, UNU, UPU, WCL, WFTU, WHO, WIPO,
  WMO, WToO, WTrO

Barbados:
  ACP, C, Caricom, CCC, CDB, ECLAC, FAO, G-77, IADB, IBRD,
  ICAO, ICFTU, ICRM, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Intelsat,
  Interpol, IOC, ISO, ITU, LAES, NAM, OAS, OPANAL, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO,
  UNIDO, UPU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTrO

Belarus:
  CCC, CEI, CIS, EAPC, EBRD, ECE, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICRM,
  IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, Inmarsat, Intelsat (nonsignatory user),
  Interpol, IOC, IOM (observer), ISO, ITU, NAM, NSG, OPCW, OSCE, PCA,
  PFP, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTrO
  (observer)

Belgium:
  ACCT, AfDB, AsDB, Australia Group, Benelux, BIS, CCC, CE,
  CERN, EAPC, EBRD, ECE, EIB, EMU, ESA, EU, FAO, G- 9, G-10, IADB,
  IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IEA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO,
  ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO, ITU,
  MINURSO, MONUC, NATO, NEA, NSG, OAS (observer), OECD, OPCW, OSCE,
  PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNMIK, UNMOGIP, UNMOP, UNRWA,
  UNTSO, UPU, WADB (nonregional), WCL, WEU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTrO, ZC

Belize:
  ACP, C, Caricom, CDB, ECLAC, FAO, G-77, IADB, IBRD, ICAO,
  ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Intelsat
  (nonsignatory user), Interpol, IOC, IOM, ITU, LAES, NAM, OAS,
  OPANAL, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTrO

Benin:
  ACCT, ACP, AfDB, CCC, ECA, ECOWAS, Entente, FAO, FZ, G-77,
  IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF,
  IMO, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO (subscriber), ITU, MIPONUH,
  MONUC, NAM, OAU, OIC, OPCW, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNMEE,
  UNTAET, UPU, WADB, WADB (regional), WAEMU, WCL, WFTU, WHO, WIPO,
  WMO, WToO, WTrO

Bermuda:
  Caricom (observer), CCC, ICFTU, Interpol (subbureau), IOC

Bhutan:
  AsDB, CP, ESCAP, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, IDA, IFAD, IMF,
  Intelsat, IOC, IOM (observer), ITU, NAM, OPCW, SAARC, UN, UNCTAD,
  UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WHO, WIPO, WTrO (observer)

Bolivia:
  CAN, CCC, ECLAC, FAO, G-11, G-77, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO,
  ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC,
  IOM, ITU, LAES, LAIA, Mercosur (associate), MONUC, NAM, OAS, OPANAL,
  OPCW, PCA, RG, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNMIK, UNTAET, UPU, WCL,
  WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  BIS, CE (guest), CEI, EBRD, ECE, FAO, G-77,
  IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, IDA, IFAD, IFC, ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat,
  Interpol, IOC, IOM (observer), ISO, ITU, NAM (guest), OAS
  (observer), OIC (observer), OPCW, OSCE, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO,
  UNMEE, UNTAET, UPU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO (observer)

Botswana:
  ACP, AfDB, C, CCC, ECA, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU,
  ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, ISO,
  ITU, NAM, OAU, OPCW, SACU, SADC, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU,
  WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Brazil:
  AfDB, BIS, CCC, ECLAC, FAO, G-11, G-15, G-19, G-24, G-77,
  IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS,
  IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM
  (observer), ISO, ITU, LAES, LAIA, Mercosur, NAM (observer), NSG,
  OAS, OPANAL, OPCW, PCA, RG, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO,
  UNITAR, UNMOP, UNTAET, UNU, UPU, WCL, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO,
  WTrO

British Virgin Islands:
  Caricom (associate), CDB, ECLAC (associate),
  Interpol (subbureau), IOC, OECS (associate), UNESCO (associate)

Brunei:
  APEC, ARF, ASEAN, C, CCC, ESCAP, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICRM,
  IDB, IFRCS, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, ISO
  (correspondent), ITU, NAM, OIC, OPCW, UN, UNCTAD, UPU, WHO, WIPO,
  WMO, WTrO

Bulgaria:
  ACCT, BIS, BSEC, CCC, CE, CEI, CERN, EAPC, EBRD, ECE, EU
  (applicant), FAO, G- 9, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, ICRM, IFC, IFRCS,
  IHO (pending member), ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat, Interpol,
  IOC, IOM, ISO, ITU, NAM (guest), NSG, OAS (observer), OPCW, OSCE,
  PCA, PFP, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNMEE, UNMIBH, UNMIK, UNMOP,
  UPU, WCL, WEU (associate partner), WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO,
  ZC

Burkina Faso:
  ACCT, ACP, AfDB, CCC, ECA, ECOWAS, Entente, FAO, FZ,
  G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC,
  IFRCS, ILO, IMF, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO (subscriber),
  ITU, MONUC, NAM, OAU, OIC, OPCW, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU,
  WADB, WAEMU, WCL, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Burma:
  ARF, AsDB, ASEAN, CCC, CP, ESCAP, FAO, G-77, IAEA, IBRD,
  ICAO, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Intelsat
  (nonsignatory user), Interpol, IOC, ITU, NAM, OPCW, UN, UNCTAD,
  UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Burundi:
  ACCT, ACP, AfDB, CCC, CEEAC, CEPGL, ECA, FAO, G-77, IBRD,
  ICAO, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, Intelsat (nonsignatory
  user), Interpol, IOC, ITU, NAM, OAU, OPCW, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO,
  UNIDO, UPU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Cambodia:
  ACCT, ARF, AsDB, ASEAN, CP, ESCAP, FAO, G-77, IAEA, IBRD,
  ICAO, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Intelsat
  (nonsignatory user), Interpol, IOC, IOM (observer), ISO
  (subscriber), ITU, NAM, OPCW, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WFTU,
  WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO (observer)

Cameroon:
  ACCT, ACP, AfDB, BDEAC, C, CCC, CEEAC, CEMAC, ECA, FAO,
  FZ, G-19, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD,
  IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, ISO
  (correspondent), ITU, NAM, OAU, OIC, OPCW, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO,
  UNIDO, UNITAR, UPU, WCL, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Canada:
  ABEDA, ACCT, AfDB, APEC, ARF (dialogue partner), AsDB, ASEAN
  (dialogue partner), Australia Group, BIS, C, CCC, CDB
  (non-regional), CE (observer), EAPC, EBRD, ECE, ECLAC, ESA
  (cooperating state), FAO, G- 7, G-10, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC,
  ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IEA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO,
  Inmarsat, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO, ITU, MINURCA, MIPONUH,
  MONUC, NAM (guest), NATO, NEA, NSG, OAS, OECD, OPCW, OSCE, PCA, UN,
  UNCTAD, UNDOF, UNESCO, UNFICYP, UNHCR, UNIKOM, UNMEE, UNMIBH, UNMIK,
  UNMOP, UNTAET, UNTSO, UNU, UPU, WCL, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO,
  WTrO, ZC

Cape Verde:
  ACCT, ACP, AfDB, CCC, ECA, ECOWAS, FAO, G-77, IBRD,
  ICAO, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Intelsat,
  Interpol, IOC, IOM (observer), ITU, NAM, OAU, OPCW, UN, UNCTAD,
  UNESCO, UNIDO, UNTAET, UPU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTrO (observer)

Cayman Islands:
  Caricom (observer), CDB, Interpol (subbureau), IOC,
  UNESCO (associate)

Central African Republic:
  ACCT, ACP, AfDB, BDEAC, CCC, CEEAC, CEMAC,
  ECA, FAO, FZ, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS,
  ILO, IMF, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, ITU, NAM, OAU, OIC (observer),
  OPCW, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Chad:
  ACCT, ACP, AfDB, BDEAC, CEEAC, CEMAC, ECA, FAO, FZ, G-77,
  IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF,
  Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, ITU, NAM, OAU, OIC, OPCW, UN, UNCTAD,
  UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Chile:
  APEC, CCC, ECLAC, FAO, G-11, G-77, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO,
  ICC, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO,
  Inmarsat, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO, ITU, LAES, LAIA,
  Mercosur (associate), NAM, OAS, OPANAL, OPCW, PCA, RG, UN, UNCTAD,
  UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNITAR, UNMIBH, UNMOGIP, UNTAET, UNTSO, UNU,
  UPU, WCL, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

China:
  AfDB, APEC, ARF (dialogue partner), AsDB, ASEAN (dialogue
  partner), BIS, CCC, CDB (non-regional), ESCAP, FAO, G-77, IAEA,
  IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF,
  IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, ISO, ITU, LAIA (observer),
  MINURSO, NAM (observer), OPCW, PCA, UN, UN Security Council,
  UNAMSIL, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNIKOM, UNITAR, UNMEE,
  UNTAET, UNTSO, UNU, UPU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO (observer), ZC

Christmas Island:
  none

Cocos (Keeling) Islands:
  none

Colombia:
  BCIE, CAN, Caricom (observer), CCC, CDB, ECLAC, FAO, G- 3,
  G-11, G-24, G-77, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA,
  IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat, Interpol,
  IOC, IOM, ISO, ITU, LAES, LAIA, NAM, OAS, OPANAL, OPCW, PCA, RG, UN,
  UN Security Council (temporary), UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNU,
  UPU, WCL, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Comoros:
  ACCT, ACP, AfDB, AFESD, AL, CCC, ECA, FAO, FZ, G-77, IBRD,
  ICAO, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS (associate), ILO, IMF, InOC,
  Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, ISO (subscriber), ITU, NAM, OAU, OIC, OPCW,
  UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WHO, WMO, WTrO (applicant)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  ACCT, ACP, AfDB, CCC, CEEAC,
  CEPGL, ECA, FAO, G-19, G-24, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, ICRM,
  IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC,
  IOM (observer), ISO (correspondent), ITU, NAM, OAU, OPCW, PCA, SADC,
  UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO,
  WToO, WTrO

Congo, Republic of the:
  ACCT, ACP, AfDB, BDEAC, CCC, CEEAC, CEMAC,
  ECA, FAO, FZ, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS,
  ILO, IMF, IMO, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM (observer), ITU, NAM,
  OAU, OPCW, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WFTU, WHO, WIPO,
  WMO, WToO, WTrO

Cook Islands:
  ACP, AsDB, ESCAP (associate), FAO, ICAO, ICFTU, IFAD,
  Intelsat (nonsignatory user), IOC, OPCW, Sparteca, SPC, SPF, UNESCO,
  WHO, WMO

Costa Rica:
  BCIE, CACM, ECLAC, FAO, G-77, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO,
  ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat,
  Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO, ITU, LAES, LAIA (observer), NAM
  (observer), OAS, OPANAL, OPCW, PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNU,
  UPU, WCL, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Cote d'Ivoire:
  ACP, AfDB, CCC, ECA, ECOWAS, Entente, FAO, FZ, G-24,
  G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS,
  ILO, IMF, IMO, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO (correspondent),
  ITU, NAM, OAU, OIC (observer), OPCW, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR,
  UNIDO, UPU, WADB, WADB (regional), WAEMU, WCL, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO,
  WToO, WTrO

Croatia:
  BIS, CCC, CE, CEI, EAPC, EBRD, ECE, FAO, IADB, IAEA, IBRD,
  ICAO, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO,
  Inmarsat, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO, ITU, NAM (observer),
  OAS (observer), OPCW, OSCE, PCA, PFP, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO,
  UPU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Cuba:
  CCC, ECLAC, FAO, G-77, IAEA, ICAO, ICC, ICRM, IFAD, IFRCS,
  IHO, ILO, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat (nonsignatory user), Interpol,
  IOC, IOM (observer), ISO, ITU, LAES, LAIA, NAM, OAS (excluded from
  formal participation since 1962), OPCW, PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO,
  UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Cyprus:
  Australia Group, C, CCC, CE, EBRD, ECE, EU (applicant), FAO,
  G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS
  (associate), IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC,
  IOM, ISO, ITU, NAM, NSG, OAS (observer), OPCW, OSCE, PCA, UN,
  UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Czech Republic:
  ACCT (observer), Australia Group, BIS, CCC, CE, CEI,
  CERN, EAPC, EBRD, ECE, EU (applicant), FAO, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC,
  ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IEA, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat,
  Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO, ITU, MONUC, NATO, NEA, NSG, OAS
  (observer), OECD, OPCW, OSCE, PCA, PFP, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO,
  UNMEE, UNMIBH, UNMIK, UNMOP, UNMOT, UNOMIG, UPU, WCL, WEU
  (associate), WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO, ZC

Denmark:
  AfDB, AsDB, Australia Group, BIS, CBSS, CCC, CE, CERN,
  EAPC, EBRD, ECE, EIB, ESA, EU, FAO, G- 9, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO,
  ICC, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IEA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO,
  Inmarsat, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO, ITU, MONUC, NATO, NC,
  NEA, NIB, NSG, OAS (observer), OECD, OPCW, OSCE, PCA, UN, UNCTAD,
  UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNIKOM, UNMEE, UNMIBH, UNMIK, UNMOGIP, UNMOP,
  UNMOT, UNOMIG, UNTAET, UNTSO, UPU, WEU (observer), WHO, WIPO, WMO,
  WTrO, ZC

Djibouti:
  ACCT, ACP, AfDB, AFESD, AL, AMF, ECA, FAO, G-77, IBRD,
  ICAO, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IGAD, ILO, IMF, IMO,
  Intelsat (nonsignatory user), Interpol, IOC, ITU, NAM, OAU, OIC,
  OPCW, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WFTU, WHO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Dominica:
  ACCT, ACP, C, Caricom, CDB, ECLAC, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICFTU,
  ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol, IOC, ITU, NAM
  (observer), OAS, OECS, OPANAL, OPCW, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU,
  WCL, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTrO

Dominican Republic:
  ACP, Caricom (observer), ECLAC, FAO, G-11, G-77,
  IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO,
  ILO, IMF, IMO, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO (subscriber), ITU,
  LAES, LAIA (observer), NAM (observer), OAS, OPANAL, OPCW, PCA, UN,
  UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Ecuador:
  CAN, CCC, ECLAC, FAO, G-11, G-77, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO,
  ICC, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO,
  Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO, ITU, LAES, LAIA, NAM, OAS,
  OPANAL, OPCW, PCA, RG, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WFTU,
  WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Egypt:
  ABEDA, ACC, ACCT (associate), AfDB, AFESD, AL, AMF, BSEC
  (observer), CAEU, CCC, EBRD, ECA, ESCWA, FAO, G-15, G-19, G-24,
  G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO,
  ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO, ITU,
  MINURSO, MONUC, NAM, OAPEC, OAS (observer), OAU, OIC, OSCE
  (partner), PCA, UN, UNAMSIL, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNITAR, UNMIBH,
  UNMIK, UNMOP, UNOMIG, UNRWA, UNTAET, UPU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO,
  WToO, WTrO

El Salvador:
  BCIE, CACM, ECLAC, FAO, G-77, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO,
  ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Intelsat,
  Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO (correspondent), ITU, LAES, LAIA (observer),
  MINURSO, NAM (observer), OAS, OPANAL, OPCW, PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO,
  UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Equatorial Guinea:
  ACCT, ACP, AfDB, BDEAC, CEEAC, CEMAC, ECA, FAO,
  FZ, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO,
  Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, ITU, NAM, OAS (observer), OAU, OPCW, UN,
  UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WHO, WIPO, WToO, WTrO (applicant)

Eritrea:
  ACP, AfDB, CCC, ECA, FAO, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, IDA, IFAD,
  IFC, IGAD, ILO, IMF, IMO, Intelsat (nonsignatory user), Interpol,
  IOC, ITU, NAM, OAU, OPCW, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WFTU, WHO,
  WIPO, WMO, WToO

Estonia:
  BIS, CBSS, CCC, CE, EAPC, EBRD, ECE, EU (applicant), FAO,
  IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, ICRM, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO,
  Interpol, IOC, IOM (observer), ISO (correspondent), ITU, OPCW, OSCE,
  PFP, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNMIBH, UNMIK, UNTSO, UPU, WEU (associate
  partner), WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTrO

Ethiopia:
  ACP, AfDB, CCC, ECA, FAO, G-24, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO,
  ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IGAD, ILO, IMF, IMO, Intelsat,
  Interpol, IOC, IOM (observer), ISO, ITU, NAM, OAU, OPCW, UN, UNCTAD,
  UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNU, UPU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas):
  ICFTU

Faroe Islands:
  NC, NIB

Fiji:
  ACP, AsDB, C, CCC, CP, ESCAP, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU,
  ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, Intelsat, Interpol,
  IOC, ISO (subscriber), ITU, OPCW, Sparteca, SPC, SPF, UN, UNCTAD,
  UNESCO, UNIDO, UNIFIL, UNIKOM, UNMIBH, UNMIK, UNTAET, UPU, WFTU,
  WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Finland:
  AfDB, AsDB, Australia Group, BIS, CBSS, CCC, CE, CERN,
  EAPC, EBRD, ECE, EIB, EMU, ESA, EU, FAO, G- 9, IADB, IAEA, IBRD,
  ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IEA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF,
  IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO, ITU, NAM (guest),
  NC, NEA, NIB, NSG, OAS (observer), OECD, OPCW, OSCE, PCA, PFP, UN,
  UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNFICYP, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNIFIL, UNIKOM, UNMEE,
  UNMIBH, UNMIK, UNMOGIP, UNMOP, UNTSO, UPU, WEU (observer), WFTU,
  WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO, ZC

France:
  ACCT, AfDB, AsDB, Australia Group, BDEAC, BIS, CCC, CDB
  (non-regional), CE, CERN, EAPC, EBRD, ECA (associate), ECE, ECLAC,
  EIB, EMU, ESA, ESCAP, EU, FAO, FZ, G- 5, G- 7, G-10, IADB, IAEA,
  IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IEA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO,
  IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, InOC, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO, ITU,
  MINURSO, MIPONUH, MONUC, NAM (guest), NATO, NEA, NSG, OAS
  (observer), OECD, OPCW, OSCE, PCA, SPC, UN, UN Security Council,
  UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNIFIL, UNIKOM, UNITAR, UNMEE, UNMIBH,
  UNMIK, UNOMIG, UNRWA, UNTAET, UNTSO, UNU, UPU, WADB (nonregional),
  WCL, WEU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO, ZC

French Guiana:
  FZ, WCL, WFTU

French Polynesia:
  ESCAP (associate), FZ, ICFTU, SPC, WMO

Gabon:
  ACCT, ACP, AfDB, BDEAC, CCC, CEEAC, CEMAC, ECA, FAO, FZ,
  G-24, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS
  (associate), ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, ITU,
  NAM, OAU, OIC, OPCW, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WHO, WIPO,
  WMO, WToO, WTrO

Gambia, The:
  ACP, AfDB, C, CCC, ECA, ECOWAS, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO,
  ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Intelsat
  (nonsignatory user), Interpol, IOC, ITU, NAM, OAU, OIC, OPCW, UN,
  UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNMEE, UPU, WCL, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO,
  WTrO

Georgia:
  BSEC, CCC, CE, CIS, EAPC, EBRD, ECE, FAO, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO,
  ICFTU, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, Interpol,
  IOC, IOM (observer), ITU, OPCW, OSCE, PFP, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO,
  UNIDO, UPU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Germany:
  AfDB, AsDB, Australia Group, BDEAC, BIS, CBSS, CCC, CDB
  (non-regional), CE, CERN, EAPC, EBRD, ECE, EIB, EMU, ESA, EU, FAO,
  G- 5, G- 7, G-10, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA,
  IEA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat,
  Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO, ITU, MONUC, NAM (guest), NATO, NEA, NSG,
  OAS (observer), OECD, OPCW, OSCE, PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR,
  UNIDO, UNIKOM, UNMIBH, UNMIK, UNOMIG, UPU, WADB (nonregional), WEU,
  WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO, ZC

Ghana:
  ABEDA, ACP, AfDB, C, CCC, ECA, ECOWAS, FAO, G-24, G-77, IAEA,
  IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO,
  Inmarsat, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM (observer), ISO, ITU,
  MINURSO, NAM, OAS (observer), OAU, OPCW, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO,
  UNIFIL, UNIKOM, UNITAR, UNMEE, UNMIBH, UNMIK, UNMOP, UNMOT, UNTAET,
  UNU, UPU, WCL, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Gibraltar:
  Interpol (subbureau)

Greece:
  Australia Group, BIS, BSEC, CCC, CE, CERN, EAPC, EBRD, ECE,
  EIB, EMU, EU, FAO, G- 6, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA,
  IEA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat,
  Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO, ITU, MINURSO, NAM (guest), NATO, NEA, NSG,
  OAS (observer), OECD, OPCW, OSCE, PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR,
  UNIDO, UNIKOM, UNMIBH, UNOMIG, UPU, WEU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO,
  WTrO, ZC

Greenland:
  ICC, NC, NIB

Grenada:
  ACP, C, Caricom, CDB, ECLAC, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU,
  ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Interpol, IOC, ISO
  (subscriber), ITU, LAES, NAM, OAS, OECS, OPANAL, OPCW, UN, UNCTAD,
  UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WHO, WIPO, WTrO

Guadeloupe:
  FZ, WCL, WFTU

Guam:
  ESCAP (associate), Interpol (subbureau), IOC, SPC

Guatemala:
  BCIE, CACM, CCC, ECLAC, FAO, G-24, G-77, IADB, IAEA,
  IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO,
  Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO (correspondent), ITU, LAES, LAIA
  (observer), NAM, OAS, OPANAL, OPCW, PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO,
  UNU, UPU, WCL, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Guernsey:
  none

Guinea:
  ACCT, ACP, AfDB, CCC, ECA, ECOWAS, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO,
  ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Intelsat,
  Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO (correspondent), ITU, MINURSO, NAM, OAU,
  OIC, OPCW, UN, UNAMSIL, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WFTU, WHO,
  WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Guinea-Bissau:
  ACCT (associate), ACP, AfDB, ECA, ECOWAS, FAO, FZ,
  G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF,
  IMO, Intelsat (nonsignatory user), Interpol, IOC, IOM, ITU, NAM,
  OAU, OIC, OPCW, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WADB (regional),
  WAEMU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Guyana:
  ACP, C, Caricom, CCC, CDB, ECLAC, FAO, G-77, IADB, IBRD,
  ICAO, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Intelsat
  (nonsignatory user), Interpol, IOC, ISO (subscriber), ITU, LAES,
  NAM, OAS, OIC, OPANAL, OPCW, PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU,
  WCL, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTrO

Haiti:
  ACCT, ACP, Caricom (observer), CCC, ECLAC, FAO, G-77, IADB,
  IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO,
  Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM, ITU, LAES, OAS, OPANAL, OPCW, PCA, UN,
  UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Holy See (Vatican City):
  CE (observer), IAEA, ICFTU, Intelsat, IOM
  (observer), ITU, NAM (guest), OAS (observer), OPCW, OSCE, UN
  (observer), UNCTAD, UNHCR, UPU, WHO (observer), WIPO, WToO
  (observer), WTrO (observer)

Honduras:
  BCIE, CACM, ECLAC, FAO, G-77, IADB, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU,
  ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC,
  IOM, ISO (correspondent), ITU, LAES, LAIA (observer), MINURSO, NAM,
  OAS, OPANAL, OPCW, PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WFTU,
  WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTrO

Hong Kong:
  APEC, AsDB, BIS, CCC, ESCAP (associate), ICC, ICFTU, IMO
  (associate), Interpol (subbureau), IOC, ISO (correspondent), WCL,
  WMO, WToO (associate), WTrO

Hungary:
  ABEDA, Australia Group, BIS, CCC, CE, CEI, CERN, EAPC,
  EBRD, ECE, EU (applicant), FAO, G- 9, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU,
  ICRM, IDA, IEA, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat,
  Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO, ITU, MINURSO, NAM (guest), NATO, NEA, NSG,
  OAS (observer), OECD, OPCW, OSCE, PCA, PFP, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO,
  UNFICYP, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNIKOM, UNMIBH, UNMIK, UNMOGIP, UNOMIG, UNU,
  UPU, WCL, WEU (associate), WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO, ZC

Iceland:
  Australia Group, BIS, CBSS, CCC, CE, EAPC, EBRD, ECE, EFTA,
  FAO, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IEA (observer), IFC,
  IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, ISO,
  ITU, NATO, NC, NEA, NIB, OECD, OPCW, OSCE, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO,
  UNHCR, UNMIBH, UNMIK, UNU, UPU, WEU (associate), WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTrO

India:
  AfDB, ARF (dialogue partner), AsDB, ASEAN (dialogue partner),
  BIS, C, CCC, CP, ESCAP, FAO, G- 6, G-15, G-19, G-24, G-77, IAEA,
  IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IEA (observer), IFAD, IFC, IFRCS,
  IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM
  (observer), ISO, ITU, MINURSO, MIPONUH, MONUC, NAM, OAS (observer),
  OPCW, PCA, SAARC, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNIFIL, UNIKOM,
  UNMEE, UNMIBH, UNMIK, UNU, UPU, WCL, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Indonesia:
  APEC, ARF, AsDB, ASEAN, CCC, CP, ESCAP, FAO, G-15, G-19,
  G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC,
  IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM
  (observer), ISO, ITU, NAM, OIC, OPCW, OPEC, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO,
  UNIDO, UNIKOM, UNMIBH, UNMOP, UNMOT, UNOMIG, UPU, WCL, WFTU, WHO,
  WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Iran:
  CCC, CP, ECO, ESCAP, FAO, G-19, G-24, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO,
  ICC, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat,
  Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM (observer), ISO, ITU, NAM, OIC, OPCW,
  OPEC, PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WFTU, WHO,
  WMO, WToO

Iraq:
  ABEDA, ACC, AFESD, AL, AMF, CAEU, CCC, EAPC, ESCWA, FAO, G-19,
  G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF,
  IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, ITU, NAM, OAPEC, OIC, OPEC,
  PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO

Ireland:
  Australia Group, BIS, CCC, CE, EBRD, ECE, EIB, EMU, ESA,
  EU, FAO, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IEA, IFAD, IFC,
  IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM (observer), ISO,
  ITU, MINURSO, NAM (guest), NEA, NSG, OAS (observer), OECD, OPCW,
  OSCE, PFP, UN, UN Security Council (temporary), UNCTAD, UNESCO,
  UNFICYP, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNIFIL, UNIKOM, UNITAR, UNMIBH, UNMIK, UNMOP,
  UNTAET, UNTSO, UPU, WEU (observer), WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTrO, ZC

Israel:
  BSEC (observer), CCC, CE (observer), CERN (observer), EBRD,
  ECE, FAO, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, IDA, IFAD, IFC, ILO,
  IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO, ITU, OAS
  (observer), OPCW, OSCE (partner), PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR,
  UNIDO, UPU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Italy:
  AfDB, AsDB, Australia Group, BIS, BSEC (observer), CCC, CDB
  (non-regional), CE, CEI, CERN, EAPC, EBRD, ECE, ECLAC, EIB, EMU,
  ESA, EU, FAO, G- 7, G-10, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, ICRM,
  IDA, IEA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat,
  Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO, ITU, LAIA (observer), MINURSO, NAM (guest),
  NATO, NEA, NSG, OAS (observer), OECD, OPCW, OSCE, PCA, UN, UNCTAD,
  UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNIFIL, UNIKOM, UNMEE, UNMIBH, UNMIK, UNMOGIP,
  UNTSO, UPU, WCL, WEU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO, ZC

Jamaica:
  ACP, C, Caricom, CCC, CDB, ECLAC, FAO, G-15, G-19, G-77,
  IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, ICRM, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO (pending
  member), ILO, IMF, IMO, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM (observer),
  ISO, ITU, LAES, NAM, OAS, OPANAL, OPCW, UN, UN Security Council
  (temporary), UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO,
  WTrO

Japan:
  AfDB, APEC, ARF (dialogue partner), AsDB, ASEAN (dialogue
  partner), Australia Group, BIS, CCC, CE (observer), CERN (observer),
  CP, EBRD, ESCAP, FAO, G- 5, G- 7, G-10, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC,
  ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IEA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO,
  Inmarsat, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO, ITU, NAM (guest), NEA,
  NSG, OAS (observer), OECD, OPCW, OSCE (partner), PCA, UN, UNCTAD,
  UNDOF, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNITAR, UNRWA, UNU, UPU, WFTU, WHO,
  WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO, ZC

Jordan:
  ABEDA, ACC, AFESD, AL, AMF, CAEU, CCC, ESCWA, FAO, G-77,
  IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO,
  IMF, IMO, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO (correspondent), ITU,
  MINURSO, MONUC, NAM, OIC, OPCW, OSCE (partner), PCA, UN, UNAMSIL,
  UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNMEE, UNMIBH, UNMIK, UNMOP, UNMOT, UNOMIG,
  UNRWA, UNTAET, UPU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Kazakhstan:
  AsDB, CCC, CIS, EAPC, EBRD, ECE, ECO, ESCAP, FAO, IAEA,
  IBRD, ICAO, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, ILO, IMF, IMO, Intelsat, Interpol,
  IOC, IOM (observer), ISO, ITU, NAM (observer), OAS (observer), OIC,
  OPCW, OSCE, PFP, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO,
  WMO, WToO, WTrO (observer)

Kenya:
  ACP, AfDB, C, CCC, EADB, ECA, FAO, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO,
  ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IGAD, ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat,
  Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO, ITU, MINURSO, MONUC, NAM, OAU,
  OPCW, UN, UNAMSIL, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNIKOM, UNMEE, UNMIBH,
  UNMIK, UNMOP, UNTAET, UNU, UPU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Kiribati:
  ACP, AsDB, C, ESCAP, FAO, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA,
  IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, Intelsat (nonsignatory user), ITU, OPCW,
  Sparteca, SPC, SPF, UN, UNESCO, UPU, WHO, WTrO (applicant)

Korea, North:
  ARF (dialogue partner), ESCAP, FAO, G-77, ICAO, ICRM,
  IFAD, IFRCS, IHO, IMO, Intelsat (nonsignatory user), IOC, ISO, ITU,
  NAM, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO

Korea, South:
  AfDB, APEC, ARF (dialogue partner), AsDB, ASEAN
  (dialogue partner), Australia Group, BIS, CCC, CP, EBRD, ESCAP, FAO,
  G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IEA (observer), IFAD,
  IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC,
  IOM, ISO, ITU, MINURSO, NAM (guest), NEA, NSG, OAS (observer), OECD,
  OPCW, OSCE (partner), PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO,
  UNMOGIP, UNOMIG, UNTAET, UNU, UPU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO, ZC

Kuwait:
  ABEDA, AfDB, AFESD, AL, AMF, BDEAC, CAEU, CCC, ESCWA, FAO,
  G-77, GCC, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS,
  ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, ISO, ITU, NAM,
  OAPEC, OIC, OPCW, OPEC, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNITAR, UPU,
  WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Kyrgyzstan:
  AsDB, CCC, CIS, EAPC, EBRD, ECE, ECO, ESCAP, FAO, IBRD,
  ICAO, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, Intelsat,
  Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO (correspondent), ITU, NAM (observer), OIC,
  OPCW, OSCE, PFP, UN, UNAMSIL, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNMIK, UPU,
  WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Laos:
  ACCT, ARF, AsDB, ASEAN, CP, ESCAP, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO,
  ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, Intelsat (nonsignatory user),
  Interpol, IOC, ITU, NAM, OPCW, PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU,
  WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO (observer)

Latvia:
  BIS, CBSS, CCC, CE, EAPC, EBRD, ECE, EU (applicant), FAO,
  IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO,
  Intelsat (nonsignatory user), Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO
  (correspondent), ITU, NSG, OAS (observer), OPCW, OSCE, PFP, UN,
  UNCTAD, UNESCO, UPU, WEU (associate partner), WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTrO

Lebanon:
  ABEDA, ACCT, AFESD, AL, AMF, CCC, ESCWA, FAO, G-24, G-77,
  IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO,
  IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, ISO (correspondent),
  ITU, NAM, OAS (observer), OIC, PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR,
  UNIDO, UNRWA, UPU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO (observer)

Lesotho:
  ACP, AfDB, C, CCC, ECA, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICRM, IDA,
  IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, Intelsat (nonsignatory user), Interpol,
  IOC, ISO (subscriber), ITU, NAM, OAU, OPCW, SACU, SADC, UN, UNCTAD,
  UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UPU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Liberia:
  ACP, AfDB, CCC, ECA, ECOWAS, FAO, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO,
  ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat,
  Intelsat (nonsignatory user), Interpol, IOC, IOM, ITU, NAM, OAU,
  OPCW, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO

Libya:
  ABEDA, AfDB, AFESD, AL, AMF, AMU, CAEU, CCC, ECA, FAO, G-77,
  IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO,
  Inmarsat, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, ISO, ITU, MONUC, NAM, OAPEC, OAU,
  OIC, OPEC, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO

Liechtenstein:
  CE, EBRD, ECE, EFTA, IAEA, ICRM, IFRCS, Intelsat,
  Interpol, IOC, ITU, OPCW, OSCE, UN, UNCTAD, UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WHO
  (observer), WIPO, WTrO

Lithuania:
  ACCT (observer), BIS, CBSS, CCC, CE, EAPC, EBRD, ECE, EU
  (applicant), FAO, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, ICRM, IFC, IFRCS,
  ILO, IMF, IMO, Intelsat (nonsignatory user), Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO
  (correspondent), ITU, OPCW, OSCE, PFP, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNMIK,
  UPU, WCL, WEU (associate partner), WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTrO (observer)

Luxembourg:
  ACCT, Australia Group, Benelux, CCC, CE, EAPC, EBRD,
  ECE, EIB, EMU, EU, FAO, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA,
  IEA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM,
  ISO, ITU, NATO, NEA, NSG, OECD, OPCW, OSCE, PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO,
  UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WEU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTrO, ZC

Macau:
  CCC, ESCAP (associate), IMO (associate), Interpol
  (subbureau), UNESCO (associate), WMO, WToO (associate), WTrO

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  ACCT (associate), BIS,
  CCC, CE, CEI, EAPC, EBRD, ECE, FAO, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICRM, IDA,
  IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Intelsat (nonsignatory user),
  Interpol, IOC, IOM (observer), ISO, ITU, OPCW, OSCE, PFP, UN,
  UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO
  (observer)

Madagascar:
  ACCT, ACP, AfDB, CCC, ECA, FAO, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO,
  ICC, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, InOC,
  Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM (observer), ISO (correspondent), ITU,
  NAM, OAU, OPCW, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WFTU,
  WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Malawi:
  ACP, AfDB, C, CCC, ECA, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, ICRM,
  IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, ISO
  (correspondent), ITU, NAM, OAU, OPCW, SADC, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO,
  UNIDO, UNMIK, UPU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Malaysia:
  APEC, ARF, AsDB, ASEAN, BIS, C, CCC, CP, ESCAP, FAO, G-15,
  G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS,
  IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, ISO, ITU,
  MINURSO, MONUC, NAM, OIC, OPCW, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNIKOM,
  UNMEE, UNMIBH, UNMIK, UNTAET, UPU, WCL, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO,
  WTrO

Maldives:
  AsDB, C, CCC, CP, ESCAP, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, IDA, IDB,
  IFAD, IFC, IMF, IMO, Intelsat (nonsignatory user), Interpol, IOC,
  ITU, NAM, OIC, OPCW, SAARC, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WHO,
  WMO, WToO, WTrO

Mali:
  ACCT, ACP, AfDB, CCC, ECA, ECOWAS, FAO, FZ, G-77, IAEA, IBRD,
  ICAO, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, Intelsat,
  Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO (subscriber), ITU, MIPONUH, MONUC, NAM, OAU,
  OIC, OPCW, UN, UN Security Council (temporary), UNAMSIL, UNCTAD,
  UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WADB, WAEMU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Malta:
  C, CCC, CE, EBRD, ECE, EU (applicant), FAO, G-77, IAEA, IBRD,
  ICAO, ICFTU, ICRM, IFAD, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat,
  Interpol, IOC, IOM (observer), ISO, ITU, NAM, OPCW, OSCE, PCA, UN,
  UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Man, Isle of:
  none

Marshall Islands:
  ACP, AsDB, ESCAP, FAO, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO,
  IDA, IFC, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat (nonsignatory user),
  Interpol, ITU, OPCW, Sparteca, SPC, SPF, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, WHO

Martinique:
  FZ, WCL, WFTU

Mauritania:
  ABEDA, ACCT (associate), ACP, AfDB, AFESD, AL, AMF, AMU,
  CAEU, CCC, ECA, ECOWAS, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA,
  IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO (pending member), ILO, IMF, IMO,
  Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, ITU, NAM, OAU, OIC, OPCW, UN, UNCTAD,
  UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Mauritius:
  ACCT, ACP, AfDB, C, CCC, ECA, FAO, G-77, IAEA, IBRD,
  ICAO, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat,
  InOC, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, ISO, ITU, NAM, OAU, OPCW, SADC, UN,
  UN Security Council (temporary), UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WCL,
  WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Mayotte:
  FZ

Mexico:
  APEC, BCIE, BIS, Caricom (observer), CCC, CDB, CE
  (observer), EBRD, ECLAC, FAO, G-3, G-6, G-11, G-15, G-19, G-24,
  IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IEA (observer), IFAD,
  IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM
  (observer), ISO, ITU, LAES, LAIA, NAM (observer), NEA, OAS, OECD,
  OPANAL, OPCW, PCA, RG, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNITAR, UNU, UPU,
  WCL, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Micronesia, Federated States of:
  ACP, AsDB, ESCAP, G-77, IBRD, ICAO,
  IDA, IFC, IMF, Intelsat, IOC, ITU, OPCW, Sparteca, SPC, SPF, UN,
  UNCTAD, UNESCO, WHO, WMO

Moldova:
  ACCT, BIS, BSEC, CCC, CE, CEI, CIS, EAPC, EBRD, ECE, FAO,
  IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, IDA, IFAD, IFC, ILO, IMF, Intelsat
  (nonsignatory user), Interpol, IOC, IOM (observer), ISO
  (correspondent), ITU, OPCW, OSCE, PFP, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO,
  UPU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO (observer)

Monaco:
  ACCT, ECE, IAEA, ICAO, ICRM, IFRCS, IHO, IMO, Inmarsat,
  Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, ITU, OPCW, OSCE, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UPU,
  WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO

Mongolia:
  ARF (dialogue partner), AsDB, ASEAN (observer), CCC, EBRD,
  ESCAP, FAO, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC,
  IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, ISO, ITU, NAM, OPCW,
  UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Montserrat:
  Caricom, CDB, ECLAC (associate), ICFTU, Interpol
  (subbureau), OECS, WCL

Morocco:
  ABEDA, ACCT (associate), AfDB, AFESD, AL, AMF, AMU, CCC,
  EBRD, ECA, FAO, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IDB,
  IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM,
  ISO, ITU, MONUC, NAM, OAS (observer), OIC, OPCW, OSCE (partner), UN,
  UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Mozambique:
  ACP, AfDB, C, CCC, ECA, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU,
  ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat,
  Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM (observer), ISO (correspondent), ITU,
  NAM, OAU, OIC, OPCW, SADC, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNTAET,
  UPU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Namibia:
  AfDB, C, CCC, ECA, FAO, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICRM, IFAD,
  IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM (observer),
  ISO (correspondent), ITU, NAM, OAU, OPCW, SACU, SADC, UN, UNCTAD,
  UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNMEE, UNTAET, UPU, WCL, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO,
  WTrO

Nauru:
  ACP, AsDB, C, ESCAP, ICAO, Intelsat (nonsignatory user),
  Interpol, IOC, ITU, OPCW, Sparteca, SPC, SPF, UN, UNESCO, UPU, WHO

Nepal:
  AsDB, CCC, CP, ESCAP, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, ICRM,
  IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, ISO
  (correspondent), ITU, MONUC, NAM, OPCW, SAARC, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO,
  UNFICYP, UNIDO, UNIFIL, UNMEE, UNMIBH, UNMIK, UNMOP, UNMOT, UNTAET,
  UPU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO (observer)

Netherlands:
  AfDB, AsDB, Australia Group, Benelux, BIS, CCC, CE,
  CERN, EAPC, EBRD, ECE, ECLAC, EIB, EMU, ESA, ESCAP, EU, FAO, G-10,
  IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IEA, IFAD, IFC,
  IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM,
  ISO, ITU, NAM (guest), NATO, NEA, NSG, OAS (observer), OECD, OPCW,
  OSCE, PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNFICYP, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNITAR, UNMEE,
  UNMIBH, UNMIK, UNTSO, UNU, UPU, WCL, WEU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO,
  WTrO, ZC

Netherlands Antilles:
  Caricom (observer), ECLAC (associate),
  Interpol, IOC, UNESCO (associate), UPU, WCL, WMO, WToO (associate)

New Caledonia:
  ESCAP (associate), FZ, ICFTU, SPC, WFTU, WMO

New Zealand:
  ABEDA, ANZUS (US suspended security obligations to NZ
  on 11 August 1986), APEC, ARF (dialogue partner), AsDB, ASEAN
  (dialogue partner), Australia Group, C, CCC, CP, EBRD, ESCAP, FAO,
  IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IEA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO,
  IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM (observer), ISO,
  ITU, NAM (guest), NSG, OECD, OPCW, PCA, Sparteca, SPC, SPF, UN,
  UNAMSIL, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNMIK, UNMOP, UNTAET, UNTSO, UPU,
  WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTrO

Nicaragua:
  BCIE, CACM, CCC, ECLAC, FAO, G-77, IADB, IAEA, IBRD,
  ICAO, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Intelsat,
  Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO (correspondent), ITU, LAES, LAIA (observer),
  NAM, OAS, OPANAL, OPCW, PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UPU,
  WCL, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Niger:
  ACCT, ACP, AfDB, CCC, ECA, ECOWAS, Entente, FAO, FZ, G-77,
  IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF,
  Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, ITU, MIPONUH, MONUC, NAM, OAU, OIC, OPCW,
  UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WADB, WAEMU, WCL, WFTU, WHO, WIPO,
  WMO, WToO, WTrO

Nigeria:
  ACP, AfDB, C, CCC, ECA, ECOWAS, FAO, G-15, G-19, G-24,
  G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS,
  IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, ISO, ITU,
  MINURSO, MONUC, NAM, OAU, OIC, OPCW, OPEC, PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO,
  UNHCR, UNIDO, UNIKOM, UNITAR, UNMEE, UNMIBH, UNMIK, UNMOP, UNMOT,
  UNTAET, UNU, UPU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Niue:
  ACP, ESCAP (associate), FAO, Intelsat (nonsignatory user),
  Sparteca, SPC, SPF, UNESCO, WHO, WMO

Norfolk Island:
  none

Northern Mariana Islands:
  ESCAP (associate), Interpol (subbureau),
  SPC

Norway:
  AfDB, AsDB, Australia Group, BIS, CBSS, CCC, CE, CERN, EAPC,
  EBRD, ECE, EFTA, ESA, FAO, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, ICRM,
  IDA, IEA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat,
  Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO, ITU, MINURSO, NAM (guest), NATO, NC, NEA,
  NIB, NSG, OAS (observer), OECD, OPCW, OSCE, PCA, UN, UN Security
  Council (temporary), UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNMEE, UNMIBH,
  UNMIK, UNMOP, UNTAET, UNTSO, UPU, WEU (associate), WHO, WIPO, WMO,
  WTrO, ZC

Oman:
  ABEDA, AFESD, AL, AMF, CCC, ESCWA, FAO, G-77, GCC, IBRD, ICAO,
  IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat,
  Interpol, IOC, ISO (correspondent), ITU, NAM, OIC, OPCW, UN, UNCTAD,
  UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTrO

Pakistan:
  AsDB, C (suspended), CCC, CP, ECO, ESCAP, FAO, G-19, G-24,
  G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC,
  IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM,
  ISO, ITU, MINURSO, MONUC, NAM, OAS (observer), OIC, OPCW, PCA,
  SAARC, UN, UNAMSIL, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNIKOM, UNMIBH,
  UNMIK, UNMOP, UNOMIG, UNTAET, UPU, WCL, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO,
  WTrO

Palau:
  ACP, ESCAP, FAO, IBRD, ICAO, ICRM, IDA, IFC, IFRCS, IMF, IOC,
  Sparteca, SPC, SPF, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, WHO

Panama:
  CCC, ECLAC, FAO, G-77, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, ICRM,
  IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat, Interpol,
  IOC, IOM, ISO, ITU, LAES, LAIA (observer), NAM, OAS, OPANAL, OPCW,
  PCA, RG, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO,
  WToO, WTrO

Papua New Guinea:
  ACP, APEC, ARF (dialogue partner), AsDB, ASEAN
  (observer), C, CP, ESCAP, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA,
  IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM
  (observer), ISO (correspondent), ITU, NAM, OPCW, Sparteca, SPC, SPF,
  UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTrO

Paraguay:
  CCC, ECLAC, FAO, G-77, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU,
  ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC,
  IOM, ISO (correspondent), ITU, LAES, LAIA, Mercosur, NAM (observer),
  OAS, OPANAL, OPCW, PCA, RG, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNMEE, UPU,
  WCL, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Peru:
  ABEDA, APEC, CAN, CCC, ECLAC, FAO, G-11, G-15, G-19, G-24,
  G-77, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC,
  IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM,
  ISO (correspondent), ITU, LAES, LAIA, MONUC, NAM, OAS, OPANAL, OPCW,
  PCA, RG, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNMEE, UNTAET, UPU, WCL, WFTU,
  WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Philippines:
  APEC, ARF, AsDB, ASEAN, CCC, CP, ESCAP, FAO, G-24,
  G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS,
  IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO,
  ITU, NAM, OAS (observer), OPCW, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO,
  UNMIK, UNTAET, UNU, UPU, WCL, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Pitcairn Islands:
  SPC

Poland:
  ACCT (observer), Australia Group, BIS, BSEC (observer),
  CBSS, CCC, CE, CEI, CERN, EAPC, EBRD, ECE, EU (applicant), FAO,
  IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IEA (observer), IFC, IFRCS,
  IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO,
  ITU, MINURSO, MONUC, NAM (guest), NATO, NSG, OAS (observer), OECD,
  OPCW, OSCE, PCA, PFP, UN, UNCTAD, UNDOF, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO,
  UNIFIL, UNIKOM, UNMEE, UNMIBH, UNMIK, UNMOP, UNMOT, UNOMIG, UPU,
  WCL, WEU (associate), WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO, ZC

Portugal:
  AfDB, Australia Group, BIS, CCC, CE, CERN, EAPC, EBRD,
  ECE, ECLAC, EIB, EMU, ESA, EU, FAO, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC,
  ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IEA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO,
  Inmarsat, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO, ITU, LAIA (observer),
  MINURSO, NAM (guest), NATO, NEA, NSG, OAS (observer), OECD, OPCW,
  OSCE, PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNMIBH, UNMIK, UNMOP, UNTAET,
  UPU, WCL, WEU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO, ZC

Puerto Rico:
  Caricom (observer), ECLAC (associate), FAO (associate),
  ICFTU, Interpol (subbureau), IOC, WCL, WFTU, WHO (associate)

Qatar:
  ABEDA, AFESD, AL, AMF, CCC, ESCWA, FAO, G-77, GCC, IAEA,
  IBRD, ICAO, ICRM, IDB, IFAD, IFRCS, IHO (pending member), ILO, IMF,
  IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, ISO (correspondent), ITU,
  NAM, OAPEC, OIC, OPCW, OPEC, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WHO,
  WIPO, WMO, WTrO

Reunion:
  FZ, InOC, WFTU

Romania:
  ACCT, Australia Group, BIS, BSEC, CCC, CE, CEI, EAPC, EBRD,
  ECE, EU (applicant), FAO, G- 9, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, ICRM,
  IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC,
  IOM, ISO, ITU, LAIA (observer), MONUC, NAM (guest), NSG, OAS
  (observer), OPCW, OSCE, PCA, PFP, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNIKOM,
  UNMEE, UNMIBH, UNMIK, UPU, WCL, WEU (associate partner), WFTU, WHO,
  WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO, ZC

Russia:
  APEC, ASEAN (dialogue partner), BIS, BSEC, CBSS, CCC, CE,
  CERN (observer), CIS, EAPC, EBRD, ECE, ESCAP, G- 8, IAEA, IBRD,
  ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO,
  Inmarsat, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM (observer), ISO, ITU, LAIA
  (observer), MINURSO, MONUC, NAM (guest), NSG, OAS (observer), OPCW,
  OSCE, PCA, PFP, UN, UN Security Council, UNAMSIL, UNCTAD, UNESCO,
  UNHCR, UNIDO, UNIKOM, UNITAR, UNMEE, UNMIBH, UNMIK, UNMOP, UNOMIG,
  UNTAET, UNTSO, UPU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO (observer), ZC

Rwanda:
  ACCT, ACP, AfDB, CCC, CEEAC, CEPGL, ECA, FAO, G-77, IBRD,
  ICAO, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, Intelsat,
  Interpol, IOC, IOM (observer), ISO (correspondent), ITU, NAM, OAU,
  OPCW, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Saint Helena:
  ICFTU

Saint Kitts and Nevis:
  ACP, C, Caricom, CDB, ECLAC, FAO, G-77, IBRD,
  ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, Interpol, IOC, OAS,
  OECS, OPANAL, OPCW, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WHO, WIPO,
  WTrO

Saint Lucia:
  ACCT (associate), ACP, C, Caricom, CDB, ECLAC, FAO,
  G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO,
  Intelsat (nonsignatory user), Interpol, IOC, ISO (subscriber), ITU,
  NAM, OAS, OECS, OPANAL, OPCW, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WCL,
  WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTrO

Saint Pierre and Miquelon:
  FZ, WFTU

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:
  ACP, C, Caricom, CDB, ECLAC, FAO,
  G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO,
  Intelsat (nonsignatory user), Interpol, IOC, ITU, OAS, OECS, OPANAL,
  OPCW, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WTrO

Samoa:
  ACP, AsDB, C, ESCAP, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA,
  IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IMF, IMO, Intelsat (nonsignatory user), IOC, ITU,
  OPCW, Sparteca, SPC, SPF, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UPU, WHO, WIPO, WMO,
  WTrO (observer)

San Marino:
  CE, ECE, FAO, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, ICRM, IFRCS, ILO, IMF,
  IOC, IOM (observer), ITU, OPCW, OSCE, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UPU, WHO,
  WIPO, WToO

Sao Tome and Principe:
  ACCT, ACP, AfDB, CEEAC, ECA, FAO, G-77, IBRD,
  ICAO, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Intelsat (nonsignatory
  user), Interpol, IOC, IOM (observer), ITU, NAM, OAU, UN, UNCTAD,
  UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO (observer)

Saudi Arabia:
  ABEDA, AfDB, AFESD, AL, AMF, BIS, CCC, ESCWA, FAO,
  G-19, G-77, GCC, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC,
  IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, ISO, ITU,
  NAM, OAPEC, OAS (observer), OIC, OPCW, OPEC, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO,
  UNIDO, UPU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTrO (observer)

Senegal:
  ACCT, ACP, AfDB, CCC, ECA, ECOWAS, FAO, FZ, G-15, G-77,
  IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO,
  IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM, ITU, MINURSO,
  MIPONUH, MONUC, NAM, OAU, OIC, OPCW, PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO,
  UNIKOM, UNMIBH, UNMIK, UNTAET, UPU, WADB, WAEMU, WCL, WFTU, WHO,
  WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Seychelles:
  ACCT, ACP, AfDB, C, CCC, ECA, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO,
  ICFTU, ICRM, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, InOC, Intelsat
  (nonsignatory user), Interpol, IOC, ITU, NAM, OAU, OPCW, SADC, UN,
  UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO (observer)

Sierra Leone:
  ACP, AfDB, C, CCC, ECA, ECOWAS, FAO, G-77, IAEA, IBRD,
  ICAO, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO,
  Intelsat (nonsignatory user), Interpol, IOC, ITU, NAM, OAU, OIC,
  OPCW, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO,
  WToO, WTrO

Singapore:
  APEC, ARF, AsDB, ASEAN, Australia Group (observer), BIS,
  C, CCC, CP, ESCAP, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, ICRM, IFC,
  IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, ISO,
  ITU, NAM, OPCW, PCA, UN, UN Security Council (temporary), UNCTAD,
  UNIKOM, UNMEE, UNTAET, UPU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTrO

Slovakia:
  Australia Group, BIS, BSEC (observer), CCC, CE, CEI, CERN,
  EAPC, EBRD, ECE, EU (applicant), FAO, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU,
  ICRM, IDA, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat
  (nonsignatory user), Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO, ITU, NAM (guest), NSG,
  OECD, OPCW, OSCE, PCA, PFP, UN, UNCTAD, UNDOF, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNMEE,
  UNTSO, UPU, WCL, WEU (associate partner), WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO,
  WToO, WTrO, ZC

Slovenia:
  ABEDA, ACCT (observer), BIS, CCC, CE, CEI, EAPC, EBRD,
  ECE, EU (applicant), FAO, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICRM, IDA, IFC,
  IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Intelsat (nonsignatory user), Interpol, IOC,
  IOM, ISO, ITU, NAM (guest), NSG, OPCW, OSCE, PFP, UN, UNCTAD,
  UNESCO, UNFICYP, UNIDO, UNTAET, UNTSO, UPU, WEU (associate partner),
  WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Solomon Islands:
  ACP, AsDB, C, ESCAP, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICRM,
  IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Intelsat (nonsignatory user),
  IOC, ITU, Sparteca, SPC, SPF, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UPU, WFTU, WHO,
  WMO, WTrO

Somalia:
  ACP, AfDB, AFESD, AL, AMF, CAEU, ECA, FAO, G-77, IBRD,
  ICAO, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Intelsat,
  Interpol, IOC, IOM (observer), ITU, NAM, OAU, OIC, UN, UNCTAD,
  UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UPU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTrO (observer)

South Africa:
  ACP, AfDB, BIS, C, CCC, ECA, FAO, G-77, IAEA, IBRD,
  ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO,
  Inmarsat, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO, ITU, MONUC, NAM, NSG,
  OAU, OPCW, PCA, SACU, SADC, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO,
  UNITAR, UNMEE, UPU, WCL, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO, ZC

Spain:
  AfDB, AsDB, Australia Group, BIS, CCC, CE, CERN, EAPC, EBRD,
  ECE, ECLAC, EIB, EMU, ESA, EU, FAO, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC,
  ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IEA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO,
  Inmarsat, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM (observer), ISO, ITU, LAIA
  (observer), NATO, NEA, NSG, OAS (observer), OECD, OPCW, OSCE, PCA,
  UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNMEE, UNMIBH, UNMIK, UNTAET, UNU,
  UPU, WCL, WEU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO, ZC

Sri Lanka:
  AsDB, C, CCC, CP, ESCAP, FAO, G-24, G-77, IAEA, IBRD,
  ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO,
  Inmarsat, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO, ITU, NAM, OAS
  (observer), OPCW, PCA, SAARC, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNTAET,
  UNU, UPU, WCL, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Sudan:
  ABEDA, ACP, AfDB, AFESD, AL, AMF, CAEU, CCC, ECA, FAO, G-77,
  IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IGAD, ILO, IMF,
  IMO, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO (correspondent), ITU, NAM,
  OAU, OIC, OPCW, PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNU, UPU,
  WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO (observer)

Suriname:
  ACP, Caricom, ECLAC, FAO, G-77, IADB, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU,
  ICRM, IDB, IFAD, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, Intelsat (nonsignatory user),
  Interpol, IOC, ITU, LAES, NAM, OAS, OIC, OPANAL, OPCW, PCA, UN,
  UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WCL, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTrO

Svalbard:
  none

Swaziland:
  ACP, AfDB, C, CCC, ECA, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU,
  ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, ITU,
  NAM, OAU, OPCW, SACU, SADC, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WHO,
  WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Sweden:
  AfDB, AsDB, Australia Group, BIS, CBSS, CCC, CE, CERN, EAPC,
  EBRD, ECE, EIB, ESA, EU, FAO, G- 6, G- 9, G-10, IADB, IAEA, IBRD,
  ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IEA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF,
  IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO, ITU, MINURSO, NAM
  (guest), NC, NEA, NIB, NSG, OAS (observer), OECD, OPCW, OSCE, PCA,
  PFP, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNIKOM, UNITAR, UNMEE,
  UNMIBH, UNMIK, UNMOGIP, UNMOP, UNOMIG, UNTAET, UNTSO, UPU, WEU
  (observer), WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTrO, ZC

Switzerland:
  ACCT, AfDB, AsDB, Australia Group, BIS, CCC, CE, CERN,
  EAPC, EBRD, ECE, EFTA, ESA, FAO, G-10, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC,
  ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IEA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat,
  Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO, ITU, LAIA (observer), MONUC, NAM
  (guest), NEA, NSG, OAS (observer), OECD, OPCW, OSCE, PCA, PFP, UN
  (observer), UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNITAR, UNMEE, UNMIBH,
  UNMIK, UNMOP, UNOMIG, UNTSO, UNU, UPU, WCL, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO,
  WTrO, ZC

Syria:
  ABEDA, AFESD, AL, AMF, CAEU, CCC, ESCWA, FAO, G-24, G-77,
  IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO,
  IMF, IMO, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, ISO, ITU, NAM, OAPEC, OIC, UN,
  UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNRWA, UPU, WFTU, WHO, WMO, WToO

Tajikistan:
  AsDB, CCC, CIS, EAPC, EBRD, ECE, ECO, ESCAP, FAO, IBRD,
  ICAO, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, Intelsat, IOC,
  IOM, ITU, OIC, OPCW, OSCE, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WFTU,
  WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTrO (observer)

Tanzania:
  ACP, AfDB, C, CCC, EADB, ECA, FAO, G- 6, G-77, IAEA, IBRD,
  ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO,
  Inmarsat, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO, ITU, MONUC, NAM, OAU,
  OPCW, SADC, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNMEE, UPU, WFTU, WHO,
  WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Thailand:
  APEC, ARF, AsDB, ASEAN, BIS, CCC, CP, ESCAP, FAO, G-77,
  IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO,
  IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO, ITU, NAM, OAS
  (observer), OIC (observer), OPCW, OSCE (partner), PCA, UN, UNCTAD,
  UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNIKOM, UNITAR, UNMIBH, UNTAET, UNU, UPU, WCL,
  WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Togo:
  ACCT, ACP, AfDB, CCC, ECA, ECOWAS, Entente, FAO, FZ, G-77,
  IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF,
  IMO, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, ITU, MIPONUH, NAM, OAU, OIC, OPCW, UN,
  UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WADB, WAEMU, WCL, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO,
  WToO, WTrO

Tokelau:
  SPC, WHO (associate)

Tonga:
  ACP, AsDB, C, ESCAP, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA,
  IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, IMF, IMO, Intelsat (nonsignatory user),
  Interpol, IOC, ITU, Sparteca, SPC, SPF, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO,
  UPU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTrO (observer)

Trinidad and Tobago:
  ACP, C, Caricom, CCC, CDB, ECLAC, FAO, G-24,
  G-77, IADB, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO,
  ILO, IMF, IMO, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, ISO, ITU, LAES, NAM, OAS,
  OPANAL, OPCW, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNU, UPU, WCL, WFTU, WHO,
  WIPO, WMO, WTrO

Tunisia:
  ABEDA, ACCT, AfDB, AFESD, AL, AMF, AMU, BSEC (observer),
  CCC, ECA, FAO, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IDB,
  IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat, Interpol,
  IOC, IOM, ISO, ITU, MIPONUH, MONUC, NAM, OAS (observer), OAU, OIC,
  OPCW, OSCE (partner), UN, UN Security Council (temporary), UNCTAD,
  UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNMEE, UNMIBH, UNMIK, UPU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO,
  WMO, WToO, WTrO

Turkey:
  AsDB, Australia Group, BIS, BSEC, CCC, CE, CERN (observer),
  EAPC, EBRD, ECE, ECO, ESCAP, EU (applicant), FAO, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO,
  ICC, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IEA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF,
  IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM (observer), ISO, ITU,
  NATO, NEA, NSG, OAS (observer), OECD, OIC, OPCW, OSCE, PCA, UN,
  UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNIKOM, UNMIBH, UNMIK, UNOMIG, UNRWA,
  UNTAET, UPU, WEU (associate), WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Turkmenistan:
  AsDB, CCC, CIS, EAPC, EBRD, ECE, ECO, ESCAP, FAO,
  IBRD, ICAO, ICRM, IDB, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Intelsat
  (nonsignatory user), IOC, IOM (observer), ISO (correspondent), ITU,
  NAM, OIC, OPCW, OSCE, PFP, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WFTU,
  WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO (observer)

Turks and Caicos Islands:
  Caricom (associate), CDB, Interpol
  (subbureau)

Tuvalu:
  ACP, AsDB, C, ESCAP, IFRCS (associate), Intelsat
  (nonsignatory user), ITU, Sparteca, SPC, SPF, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO,
  UPU, WHO, WTrO (applicant)

Uganda:
  ACP, AfDB, C, CCC, EADB, ECA, FAO, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO,
  ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IGAD, ILO, IMF, Intelsat,
  Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO (correspondent), ITU, NAM, OAU, OIC, OPCW,
  PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UPU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO,
  WToO, WTrO

Ukraine:
  BSEC, CCC, CE, CEI, CIS, EAPC, EBRD, ECE, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO,
  ICRM, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat
  (nonsignatory user), Interpol, IOC, IOM (observer), ISO, ITU, MONUC,
  NAM (observer), NSG, OAS (observer), OPCW, OSCE, PCA, PFP, UN, UN
  Security Council (temporary), UNAMSIL, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO,
  UNIFIL, UNMEE, UNMIBH, UNMIK, UNMOP, UNMOT, UNTAET, UPU, WCL, WFTU,
  WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO (observer), ZC

United Arab Emirates:
  ABEDA, AFESD, AL, AMF, CAEU, CCC, ESCWA, FAO,
  G-77, GCC, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO,
  ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, ISO, ITU, NAM,
  OAPEC, OIC, OPCW, OPEC, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WHO, WIPO,
  WMO, WTrO

United Kingdom:
  AfDB, AsDB, Australia Group, BIS, C, CCC, CDB
  (non-regional), CE, CERN, EAPC, EBRD, ECA (associate), ECE, ECLAC,
  EIB, ESA, ESCAP, EU, FAO, G- 5, G- 7, G-10, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO,
  ICC, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IEA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO,
  Inmarsat, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM (observer), ISO, ITU, MONUC,
  NAM (guest), NATO, NEA, NSG, OAS (observer), OECD, OPCW, OSCE, PCA,
  SPC, UN, UN Security Council, UNAMSIL, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNFICYP,
  UNHCR, UNIDO, UNIKOM, UNMIBH, UNMIK, UNOMIG, UNRWA, UNTAET, UNU,
  UPU, WCL, WEU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTrO, ZC

United States:
  APEC, ARF (dialogue partner), AsDB, ASEAN (dialogue
  partner), Australia Group, BIS, CCC, CE (observer), CERN (observer),
  CP, EAPC, EBRD, ECE, ECLAC, ESCAP, FAO, G-5, G-7, G-10, IADB, IAEA,
  IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IEA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO,
  IMF, IMO, Inmarsat, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM, ISO, ITU, MINURSO,
  MIPONUH, NAM (guest), NATO, NEA, NSG, OAS, OECD, OPCW, OSCE, PCA,
  SPC, UN, UN Security Council, UNCTAD, UNHCR, UNIKOM, UNITAR, UNMEE,
  UNMIBH, UNMIK, UNOMIG, UNRWA, UNTAET, UNTSO, UNU, UPU, WCL, WHO,
  WIPO, WMO, WTrO, ZC

Uruguay:
  CCC, ECLAC, FAO, G-11, G-77, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC,
  ICRM, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC,
  IOM, ISO, ITU, LAES, LAIA, Mercosur, MINURSO, MONUC, NAM (observer),
  OAS, OPANAL, OPCW, PCA, RG, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNIKOM,
  UNMEE, UNMOGIP, UNMOT, UNOMIG, UNTAET, UPU, WCL, WFTU, WHO, WIPO,
  WMO, WToO, WTrO

Uzbekistan:
  AsDB, CCC, CIS, EAPC, EBRD, ECE, ECO, ESCAP, IAEA, IBRD,
  ICAO, ICRM, IDA, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, ISO,
  ITU, NAM, OIC, OPCW, OSCE, PFP, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU,
  WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO (observer)

Vanuatu:
  ACCT, ACP, AsDB, C, ESCAP, FAO, G-77, IBRD, ICAO, ICFTU,
  ICRM, IDA, IFC, IFRCS, IMF, IMO, Intelsat (nonsignatory user), IOC,
  ITU, NAM, Sparteca, SPC, SPF, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNMIBH,
  UNTAET, UPU, WFTU, WHO, WMO, WTrO (observer)

Venezuela:
  CAN, Caricom (observer), CCC, CDB, ECLAC, FAO, G- 3,
  G-11, G-15, G-19, G-24, G-77, IADB, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU,
  ICRM, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO, Intelsat, Interpol, IOC,
  IOM, ISO, ITU, LAES, LAIA, NAM, OAS, OPANAL, OPCW, OPEC, PCA, RG,
  UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNIDO, UNIKOM, UNU, UPU, WCL, WFTU, WHO,
  WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO

Vietnam:
  ACCT, APEC, ARF, AsDB, ASEAN, CCC, ESCAP, FAO, G-77, IAEA,
  IBRD, ICAO, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Inmarsat,
  Intelsat, Interpol, IOC, IOM (observer), ISO, ITU, NAM, OPCW, UN,
  UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO
  (observer)

Virgin Islands:
  ECLAC (associate), Interpol (subbureau), IOC

Wallis and Futuna:
  FZ, SPC

Western Sahara:
  none

Yemen:
  ACC, AFESD, AL, AMF, CAEU, CCC, ESCWA, FAO, G-77, IAEA, IBRD,
  ICAO, ICRM, IDA, IDB, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Intelsat,
  Interpol, IOC, IOM, ITU, NAM, OAS (observer), OIC, OPCW, UN, UNCTAD,
  UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WToO, WTrO (observer)

Yugoslavia:
  BIS, CE (guest), FAO (applicant), G- 9, G-15, G-24,
  G-77, IAEA, ICAO, ICC, ICFTU, ICRM, IFAD, IFRCS, IHO, ILO, IMF, IMO,
  Inmarsat, Intelsat, IOC, IOM (observer), ISO, ITU, NAM, OPCW, OSCE,
  UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTrO (observer)

Zambia:
  ACP, AfDB, C, CCC, ECA, FAO, G-19, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO,
  ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, Intelsat, Interpol,
  IOC, IOM, ITU, MONUC, NAM, OAU, OPCW, PCA, SADC, UN, UNAMSIL,
  UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNMEE, UNMIK, UNTAET, UPU, WHO, WIPO, WMO,
  WToO, WTrO

Zimbabwe:
  ACP, AfDB, C, CCC, ECA, FAO, G-15, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO,
  ICFTU, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, Intelsat, Interpol,
  IOC, IOM (observer), ISO, ITU, NAM, OAU, OPCW, PCA, SADC, UN,
  UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UNMIK, UNTAET, UPU, WCL, WFTU, WHO, WIPO,
  WMO, WToO, WTrO

Taiwan:
  APEC, AsDB, BCIE, ICC, ICFTU, IFRCS, IOC, WCL, WTrO
  (observer)

======================================================================

@Internet country code



Afghanistan:
  .af

Albania:
  .al

Algeria:
  .dz

American Samoa:
  .as

Andorra:
  .ad

Angola:
  .ao

Anguilla:
  .ai

Antarctica:
  .aq

Antigua and Barbuda:
  .ag

Argentina:
  .ar

Armenia:
  .am

Aruba:
  .aw

Australia:
  .au

Austria:
  .at

Azerbaijan:
  .az

Bahamas, The:
  .bs

Bahrain:
  .bh

Bangladesh:
  .bd

Barbados:
  .bb

Belarus:
  .by

Belgium:
  .be

Belize:
  .bz

Benin:
  .bj

Bermuda:
  .bm

Bhutan:
  .bt

Bolivia:
  .bo

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  .ba

Botswana:
  .bw

Bouvet Island:
  .bv

Brazil:
  .br

British Indian Ocean Territory:
  .io

British Virgin Islands:
  .vg

Brunei:
  .bn

Bulgaria:
  .bg

Burkina Faso:
  .bf

Burma:
  .mm

Burundi:
  .bi

Cambodia:
  .kh

Cameroon:
  .cm

Canada:
  .ca

Cape Verde:
  .cv

Cayman Islands:
  .ky

Central African Republic:
  .cf

Chad:
  .td

Chile:
  .cl

China:
  .cn

Christmas Island:
  .cx

Cocos (Keeling) Islands:
  .cc

Colombia:
  .co

Comoros:
  .km

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  .cd

Congo, Republic of the:
  .cg

Cook Islands:
  .ck

Costa Rica:
  .cr

Cote d'Ivoire:
  .ci

Croatia:
  .hr

Cuba:
  .cu

Cyprus:
  .cy

Czech Republic:
  .cz

Denmark:
  .dk

Djibouti:
  .dj

Dominica:
  .dm

Dominican Republic:
  .do

Ecuador:
  .ec

Egypt:
  .eg

El Salvador:
  .sv

Equatorial Guinea:
  .gq

Eritrea:
  .er

Estonia:
  .ee

Ethiopia:
  .et

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas):
  .fk

Faroe Islands:
  .fo

Fiji:
  .fj

Finland:
  .fi

France:
  .fr

French Guiana:
  .gf

French Polynesia:
  .pf

French Southern and Antarctic Lands:
  .tf

Gabon:
  .ga

Gambia, The:
  .gm

Georgia:
  .ge

Germany:
  .de

Ghana:
  .gh

Gibraltar:
  .gi

Greece:
  .gr

Greenland:
  .gl

Grenada:
  .gd

Guadeloupe:
  .gp

Guam:
  .gu

Guatemala:
  .gt

Guernsey:
  .gg

Guinea:
  .gn

Guinea-Bissau:
  .gw

Guyana:
  .gy

Haiti:
  .ht

Heard Island and McDonald Islands:
  .hm

Holy See (Vatican City):
  .va

Honduras:
  .hn

Hong Kong:
  .hk

Hungary:
  .hu

Iceland:
  .is

India:
  .in

Indonesia:
  .id

Iran:
  .ir

Iraq:
  .iq

Ireland:
  .ie

Israel:
  .il

Italy:
  .it

Jamaica:
  .jm

Japan:
  .jp

Jersey:
  .je

Jordan:
  .jo

Kazakhstan:
  .kz

Kenya:
  .ke

Kiribati:
  .ki

Korea, North:
  .kp

Korea, South:
  .kr

Kuwait:
  .kw

Kyrgyzstan:
  .kg

Laos:
  .la

Latvia:
  .lv

Lebanon:
  .lb

Lesotho:
  .ls

Liberia:
  .lr

Libya:
  .ly

Liechtenstein:
  .li

Lithuania:
  .lt

Luxembourg:
  .lu

Macau:
  .mo

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  .mk

Madagascar:
  .mg

Malawi:
  .mw

Malaysia:
  .my

Maldives:
  .mv

Mali:
  .ml

Malta:
  .mt

Man, Isle of:
  .im

Marshall Islands:
  .mh

Martinique:
  .mq

Mauritania:
  .mr

Mauritius:
  .mu

Mayotte:
  .yt

Mexico:
  .mx

Micronesia, Federated States of:
  .fm

Moldova:
  .md

Monaco:
  .mc

Mongolia:
  .mn

Montserrat:
  .ms

Morocco:
  .ma

Mozambique:
  .mz

Namibia:
  .na

Nauru:
  .nr

Nepal:
  .np

Netherlands:
  .nl

Netherlands Antilles:
  .an

New Caledonia:
  .nc

New Zealand:
  .nz

Nicaragua:
  .ni

Niger:
  .ne

Nigeria:
  .ng

Niue:
  .nu

Norfolk Island:
  .nf

Northern Mariana Islands:
  .mp

Norway:
  .no

Oman:
  .om

Pakistan:
  .pk

Palau:
  .pw

Panama:
  .pa

Papua New Guinea:
  .pg

Paraguay:
  .py

Peru:
  .pe

Philippines:
  .ph

Pitcairn Islands:
  .pn

Poland:
  .pl

Portugal:
  .pt

Puerto Rico:
  .pr

Qatar:
  .qa

Reunion:
  .re

Romania:
  .ro

Russia:
  .ru

Rwanda:
  .rw

Saint Helena:
  .sh

Saint Kitts and Nevis:
  .kn

Saint Lucia:
  .lc

Saint Pierre and Miquelon:
  .pm

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:
  .vc

Samoa:
  .ws

San Marino:
  .sm

Sao Tome and Principe:
  .st

Saudi Arabia:
  .sa

Senegal:
  .sn

Seychelles:
  .sc

Sierra Leone:
  .sl

Singapore:
  .sg

Slovakia:
  .sk

Slovenia:
  .si

Solomon Islands:
  .sb

Somalia:
  .so

South Africa:
  .za

South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands:
  .gs

Spain:
  .es

Sri Lanka:
  .lk

Sudan:
  .sd

Suriname:
  .sr

Svalbard:
  .sj

Swaziland:
  .sz

Sweden:
  .se

Switzerland:
  .ch

Syria:
  .sy

Tajikistan:
  .tj

Tanzania:
  .tz

Thailand:
  .th

Togo:
  .tg

Tokelau:
  .tk

Tonga:
  .to

Trinidad and Tobago:
  .tt

Tunisia:
  .tn

Turkey:
  .tr

Turkmenistan:
  .tm

Turks and Caicos Islands:
  .tc

Tuvalu:
  .tv

Uganda:
  .ug

Ukraine:
  .ua

United Arab Emirates:
  .ae

United Kingdom:
  .uk

United States:
  .us

Uruguay:
  .uy

Uzbekistan:
  .uz

Vanuatu:
  .vu

Venezuela:
  .ve

Vietnam:
  .vn

Virgin Islands:
  .vi

Wallis and Futuna:
  .wf

Western Sahara:
  .eh

Yemen:
  .ye

Zambia:
  .zm

Zimbabwe:
  .zw

Taiwan:
  .tw

======================================================================

@Internet Service Providers (ISPs)



Afghanistan:
  1 (2000)

Albania:
  7 (2000)

Algeria:
  2 (2000)

American Samoa:
  1 (2000)

Andorra:
  1 (2000)

Angola:
  1 (2000)

Anguilla:
  16 (2000)

Antarctica:
  NA

Antigua and Barbuda:
  16 (2000)

Argentina:
  33 (2000)

Armenia:
  1 (1999)

Aruba:
  NA

Australia:
  264 (2000)

Austria:
  37 (2000)

Azerbaijan:
  2 (2000)

Bahamas, The:
  19 (2000)

Bahrain:
  1 (2000)

Bangladesh:
  10 (2000)

Barbados:
  19 (2000)

Belarus:
  4 (2000)

Belgium:
  61 (2000)

Belize:
  2 (2000)

Benin:
  1 (2000)

Bermuda:
  20 (2000)

Bhutan:
  NA

Bolivia:
  9 (2000)

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  3 (2000)

Botswana:
  3 (2000)

Brazil:
  50 (2000)

British Indian Ocean Territory:
  1 (2000)

British Virgin Islands:
  16 (2000)

Brunei:
  2 (2000)

Bulgaria:
  26 (2000)

Burkina Faso:
  1 (2000)

Burma:
  1

  note:  as of September 2000, Internet connections were legal only
  for the government, tourist offices, and a few large businesses
  (2000)

Burundi:
  1 (2000)

Cambodia:
  2 (2000)

Cameroon:
  1 (2000)

Canada:
  760 (2000 est.)

Cape Verde:
  1 (2000)

Cayman Islands:
  16 (2000)

Central African Republic:
  1 (2000)

Chad:
  1 (2000)

Chile:
  7 (2000)

China:
  3 (2000)

Christmas Island:
  2 (2000)

Cocos (Keeling) Islands:
  2 (2000)

Colombia:
  18 (2000)

Comoros:
  1 (2000)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  2 (2000)

Congo, Republic of the:
  1 (2000)

Cook Islands:
  3 (2000)

Costa Rica:
  3 (of which only one is legal) (2000)

Cote d'Ivoire:
  5 (2001)

Croatia:
  9 (2000)

Cuba:
  4 (2001)

Cyprus:
  6 (2000)

Czech Republic:
  more than 300 (2000)

Denmark:
  13 (2000)

Djibouti:
  1 (2000)

Dominica:
  16 (2000)

Dominican Republic:
  24 (2000)

Ecuador:
  13 (2000)

Egypt:
  50 (2000)

El Salvador:
  4 (2000)

Equatorial Guinea:
  1 (2000)

Eritrea:
  4 (2000)

Estonia:
  28 (2000)

Ethiopia:
  1 (2000)

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas):
  2 (2000)

Faroe Islands:
  2 (2000)

Fiji:
  2 (2000)

Finland:
  23 (2000)

France:
  62 (2000)

French Guiana:
  2 (2000)

French Polynesia:
  2 (2000)

Gabon:
  1 (2000)

Gambia, The:
  2 (2001)

Gaza Strip:
  3 (1999)

Georgia:
  6 (2000)

Germany:
  123 (2000)

Ghana:
  1 (2000)

Gibraltar:
  2 (2000)

Greece:
  27 (2000)

Greenland:
  1 (2000)

Grenada:
  14 (2000)

Guadeloupe:
  3 (2000)

Guam:
  20 (2000)

Guatemala:
  5 (2000)

Guernsey:
  NA

Guinea:
  1 (2000)

Guinea-Bissau:
  1 (2000)

Guyana:
  3 (2000)

Haiti:
  3 (2000)

Holy See (Vatican City):
  93 (Holy See and Italy) (2000)

Honduras:
  8 (2000)

Hong Kong:
  17 (2000)

Hungary:
  16 (2000)

Iceland:
  7 (2000)

India:
  43 (2000)

Indonesia:
  24 (2000)

Iran:
  8 (2000)

Iraq:
  1 (2000)

Ireland:
  22 (2000)

Israel:
  21 (2000)

Italy:
  93 (Italy and Holy See) (2000)

Jamaica:
  21 (2000)

Jan Mayen:
  13 (Jan Mayen and Svalbard) (2000)

Japan:
  73 (2000)

Jersey:
  NA

Johnston Atoll:
  NA

Jordan:
  5 (2000)

Kazakhstan:
  NA

Kenya:
  5 (2000)

Kiribati:
  1 (2000)

Korea, North:
  1 (2000)

Korea, South:
  11 (2000)

Kuwait:
  3 (2000)

Kyrgyzstan:
  NA

Laos:
  1 (2000)

Latvia:
  42 (2000)

Lebanon:
  22 (2000)

Lesotho:
  1 (2000)

Liberia:
  1 (2000)

Libya:
  1 (2000)

Liechtenstein:
  44 (Liechtenstein and Switzerland) (2000)

Lithuania:
  14 (2000)

Luxembourg:
  8 (2000)

Macau:
  1 (2000)

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  6 (2000)

Madagascar:
  2 (2000)

Malawi:
  8 (2001)

Malaysia:
  7 (2000)

Maldives:
  1 (2000)

Mali:
  1 (2000)

Malta:
  2 (2000)

Man, Isle of:
  NA

Marshall Islands:
  1 (2000)

Martinique:
  2 (2000)

Mauritania:
  5 (2000)

Mauritius:
  2 (2000)

Mayotte:
  NA

Mexico:
  51 (2000)

Micronesia, Federated States of:
  1 (2000)

Moldova:
  2 (1999)

Monaco:
  2 (2000)

Mongolia:
  5 (2001)

Montserrat:
  17 (2000)

Morocco:
  8 (2000)

Mozambique:
  8 (2000)

Namibia:
  2 (2000)

Nauru:
  1 (2000)

Nepal:
  6 (2000)

Netherlands:
  52 (2000)

Netherlands Antilles:
  6

New Caledonia:
  1 (2000)

New Zealand:
  36 (2000)

Nicaragua:
  3 (2000)

Niger:
  1 (2000)

Nigeria:
  11 (2000)

Niue:
  1 (2000)

Norfolk Island:
  2 (2000)

Northern Mariana Islands:
  1 (2000)

Norway:
  13 (2000)

Oman:
  1 (2000)

Pakistan:
  30 (2000)

Palau:
  NA

Panama:
  6 (2000)

Papua New Guinea:
  3 (2000)

Paraguay:
  4 (2000)

Peru:
  10 (2000)

Philippines:
  33 (2000)

Pitcairn Islands:
  NA

Poland:
  19 (2000)

Portugal:
  16 (2000)

Puerto Rico:
  76 (2000)

Qatar:
  1 (2000)

Reunion:
  1 (2000)

Romania:
  38 (2000)

Russia:
  35 (2000)

Rwanda:
  1 (2000)

Saint Helena:
  1 (2000)

Saint Kitts and Nevis:
  16 (2000)

Saint Lucia:
  15 (2000)

Saint Pierre and Miquelon:
  1 (2000)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:
  15 (2000)

Samoa:
  2 (2000)

San Marino:
  2 (2000)

Sao Tome and Principe:
  2 (2000)

Saudi Arabia:
  42 (2001)

Senegal:
  1 (2000)

Seychelles:
  1 (2000)

Sierra Leone:
  1 (2000)

Singapore:
  9 (2000)

Slovakia:
  6 (2000)

Slovenia:
  11 (2000)

Solomon Islands:
  1 (2000)

Somalia:
  1 (2000)

South Africa:
  44 (2000)

Spain:
  56 (2000)

Sri Lanka:
  5 (2000)

Sudan:
  1 (2000)

Suriname:
  2 (2000)

Svalbard:
  13 (Svalbard and Jan Mayen) (2000)

Swaziland:
  3 (2000)

Sweden:
  29 (2000)

Switzerland:
  44 (Switzerland and Liechtenstein) (2000)

Syria:
  1 (2000)

Tajikistan:
  NA

Tanzania:
  6 (2000)

Thailand:
  15 (2000)

Togo:
  3 (2000)

Tokelau:
  1 (2000)

Tonga:
  2 (2000)

Trinidad and Tobago:
  17 (2000)

Tunisia:
  1 (2000)

Turkey:
  22 (2000)

Turkmenistan:
  NA

Turks and Caicos Islands:
  14 (2000)

Tuvalu:
  1 (2000)

Uganda:
  2 (2000)

Ukraine:
  32 (2000)

United Arab Emirates:
  1 (2000)

United Kingdom:
  245 (2000)

United States:
  7,800 (2000 est.)

Uruguay:
  7 (2000)

Uzbekistan:
  42 (2000)

Vanuatu:
  1 (2000)

Venezuela:
  16 (2000)

Vietnam:
  5 (2000)

Virgin Islands:
  50 (2000)

Wallis and Futuna:
  1 (2000)

West Bank:
  8 (1999)

Western Sahara:
  1 (2000)

World:
  10,350 (2000 est.)

Yemen:
  1 (2000)

Yugoslavia:
  9 (2000)

Zambia:
  3 (2000)

Zimbabwe:
  6 (2000)

Taiwan:
  8 (2000)

======================================================================

@Internet users



Afghanistan:
  NA

Albania:
  2,500 (2000)

Algeria:
  20,000 (2000)

American Samoa:
  NA

Andorra:
  5,000 (2000)

Angola:
  12,000 (1999)

Anguilla:
  NA

Antigua and Barbuda:
  8,000 (2000)

Argentina:
  900,000 (2000)

Armenia:
  30,000 (2000)

Aruba:
  4,000 (2000)

Australia:
  7.77 million (2000)

Austria:
  2.6 million (2000)

Azerbaijan:
  8,000 (2000)

Bahamas, The:
  15,000 (2000)

Bahrain:
  37,500 (2000)

Bangladesh:
  30,000 (2000)

Barbados:
  6,000 (2000)

Belarus:
  10,000 (2000)

Belgium:
  2.7 million (2000)

Belize:
  12,000 (2000)

Benin:
  10,000 (2000)

Bermuda:
  25,000 (2000)

Bhutan:
  500 (2000)

Bolivia:
  35,000 (2000)

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  3,500 (2000)

Botswana:
  12,000 (2000)

Brazil:
  8.65 million (2000)

British Virgin Islands:
  NA

Brunei:
  28,000 (2001)

Bulgaria:
  200,000 (2000)

Burkina Faso:
  4,000 (2000)

Burma:
  500 (2000)

Burundi:
  2,000 (2000)

Cambodia:
  NA

Cameroon:
  20,000 (2000)

Canada:
  13.28 million (1999)

Cape Verde:
  5,000 (2000)

Cayman Islands:
  NA

Central African Republic:
  1,000 (2000)

Chad:
  1,000 (2000)

Chile:
  625,000 (2000)

China:
  22 million (January 2001)

Christmas Island:
  NA

Cocos (Keeling) Islands:
  NA

Colombia:
  600,000 (2000)

Comoros:
  800 (2000)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  1,500 (1999)

Congo, Republic of the:
  500 (2000)

Cook Islands:
  NA

Costa Rica:
  150,000 (2000)

Cote d'Ivoire:
  20,000 (2000)

Croatia:
  100,000 (1999)

Cuba:
  60,000 (2000)

Cyprus:
  80,000 (2000)

Czech Republic:
  900,000 (2000)

Denmark:
  2.3 million (2000)

Djibouti:
  1,000 (2000)

Dominica:
  2,000 (2000)

Dominican Republic:
  25,000 (1999)

Ecuador:
  20,000 (2000)

Egypt:
  300,000 (2000)

El Salvador:
  40,000 (2000)

Equatorial Guinea:
  500 (2000)

Eritrea:
  500 (2000)

Estonia:
  309,000 (2000)

Ethiopia:
  7,200 (1999)

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas):
  NA

Faroe Islands:
  3,000 (2000)

Fiji:
  7,500 (2000)

Finland:
  2.27 million (2000)

France:
  9 million (2000)

French Guiana:
  2,000 (2000)

French Polynesia:
  5,000 (2000)

Gabon:
  5,000 (2000)

Gambia, The:
  5,000 (2001)

Gaza Strip:
  23,520 (1999) (includes West Bank)

Georgia:
  20,000 (2000)

Germany:
  18 million (2000)

Ghana:
  20,000 (2000)

Gibraltar:
  NA

Greece:
  1.33 million (1999)

Greenland:
  4,008 (1999)

Grenada:
  2,000 (2000)

Guadeloupe:
  4,000 (2000)

Guam:
  5,000 (2000)

Guatemala:
  65,000 (2000)

Guernsey:
  NA

Guinea:
  5,000 (2000)

Guinea-Bissau:
  1,500 (2000)

Guyana:
  3,000 (2000)

Haiti:
  6,000 (2000)

Holy See (Vatican City):
  NA

Honduras:
  20,000 (2000)

Hong Kong:
  1.85 million (2000)

Hungary:
  650,000 (2000)

Iceland:
  144,000 (2000)

India:
  4.5 million (2000)

Indonesia:
  400,000 (2000)

Iran:
  100,000 (2000)

Iraq:
  NA

Ireland:
  1 million (2001)

Israel:
  1 million (2000)

Italy:
  11.6 million (2000)

Jamaica:
  60,000 (2000)

Japan:
  27.06 million (2000)

Jersey:
  NA

Jordan:
  87,500 (2000)

Kazakhstan:
  70,000 (2000)

Kenya:
  45,000 (1999)

Kiribati:
  1,000 (2000)

Korea, North:
  NA

Korea, South:
  15.3 million (2000)

Kuwait:
  100,000 (2000)

Kyrgyzstan:
  10,000 (2000)

Laos:
  2,000 (2000)

Latvia:
  234,000 (2000)

Lebanon:
  227,500 (2000)

Lesotho:
  1,000 (2000)

Liberia:
  300 (2000)

Libya:
  7,500 (2000)

Liechtenstein:
  NA

Lithuania:
  225,000 (2000)

Luxembourg:
  86,000 (1999)

Macau:
  40,000 (2000)

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  30,000 (2000)

Madagascar:
  8,000 (2000)

Malawi:
  10,000 (2000)

Malaysia:
  1.5 million (2000)

Maldives:
  2,000 (2000)

Mali:
  10,000 (2000)

Malta:
  40,000 (2000)

Man, Isle of:
  NA

Marshall Islands:
  500 (2000)

Martinique:
  5,000 (2000)

Mauritania:
  3,500 (2000)

Mauritius:
  55,000 (2000)

Mayotte:
  NA

Mexico:
  2.5 million (2000)

Micronesia, Federated States of:
  2,000 (2000)

Moldova:
  15,000 (2000)

Monaco:
  NA

Mongolia:
  between 10,000 and 15,000 (2001)

Montserrat:
  NA

Morocco:
  120,000 (1999)

Mozambique:
  6,250

  note:  150 corporate accounts and 6,100 individual accounts (2000)

Namibia:
  9,000 (1999)

Nauru:
  NA

Nepal:
  35,000 (2000)

Netherlands:
  6.8 million (2000)

Netherlands Antilles:
  2,000 (2000)

New Caledonia:
  5,000 (2000)

New Zealand:
  1.34 million (2000)

Nicaragua:
  20,000 (2000)

Niger:
  3,000 (2000)

Nigeria:
  100,000 (2000)

Niue:
  NA

Norfolk Island:
  NA

Northern Mariana Islands:
  NA

Norway:
  2.36 million (October 2000)

Oman:
  50,000 (2000)

Pakistan:
  1.2 million (2000)

Panama:
  45,000 (2000)

Papua New Guinea:
  2,000 (2000)

Paraguay:
  20,000 (2000)

Peru:
  400,000 (2000)

Philippines:
  500,000 (2000)

Pitcairn Islands:
  NA

Poland:
  2.8 million (2000)

Portugal:
  700,000 (2000)

Puerto Rico:
  110,000 (2000)

Qatar:
  45,000 (2000)

Reunion:
  10,000 (2000)

Romania:
  600,000 (2000)

Russia:
  9.2 million (2000)

Rwanda:
  1,000 (2000)

Saint Helena:
  NA

Saint Kitts and Nevis:
  2,000 (2000)

Saint Lucia:
  5,000 (2000)

Saint Pierre and Miquelon:
  NA

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:
  2,000 (2000)

Samoa:
  500 (2000)

San Marino:
  NA

Sao Tome and Principe:
  500 (2000)

Saudi Arabia:
  400,000 (2001)

Senegal:
  30,000 (2000)

Seychelles:
  5,000 (2000)

Sierra Leone:
  2,000 (2000)

Singapore:
  1.74 million (2000)

Slovakia:
  700,000 (2000)

Slovenia:
  460,000 (1999)

Solomon Islands:
  3,000 (2000)

Somalia:
  200 (2000)

South Africa:
  1.82 million (2000)

Spain:
  4.6 million (2000)

Sri Lanka:
  65,000 (2000)

Sudan:
  10,000 (2000)

Suriname:
  10,000 (2000)

Svalbard:
  NA

Swaziland:
  4,000 (2000)

Sweden:
  4.5 million (2000)

Switzerland:
  2.4 million (2000)

Syria:
  20,000 (2000)

Tajikistan:
  2,000 (2000)

Tanzania:
  25,000 (2000)

Thailand:
  1 million (2000)

Togo:
  10,000 (2000)

Tokelau:
  NA

Tonga:
  1,000 (2000)

Trinidad and Tobago:
  30,000 (2000)

Tunisia:
  110,000 (2000)

Turkey:
  2 million (2000)

Turkmenistan:
  2,000 (2000)

Turks and Caicos Islands:
  NA

Tuvalu:
  NA

Uganda:
  25,000 (2000)

Ukraine:
  200,000 (2000)

United Arab Emirates:
  400,000 (2000)

United Kingdom:
  19.47 million (2000)

United States:
  148 million (2000)

Uruguay:
  300,000 (2000)

Uzbekistan:
  7,500 (2000)

Vanuatu:
  3,000 (2000)

Venezuela:
  400,000 (2000)

Vietnam:
  121,000 (2000)

Virgin Islands:
  12,000 (2000)

Wallis and Futuna:
  NA

West Bank:
  23,520 (includes Gaza Strip) (1999)

Western Sahara:
  NA

World:
  407.1 million (2000 est.)

Yemen:
  12,000 (2000)

Yugoslavia:
  80,000 (2000)

Zambia:
  15,000 (2000)

Zimbabwe:
  30,000 (1999)

Taiwan:
  6.4 million (2000)

======================================================================

@Irrigated land



Afghanistan:
  30,000 sq km (1993 est.)

Albania:
  3,410 sq km (1993 est.)

Algeria:
  5,550 sq km (1993 est.)

American Samoa:
  NA sq km

Andorra:
  NA sq km

Angola:
  750 sq km (1993 est.)

Anguilla:
  NA sq km

Antarctica:
  0 sq km (1993)

Antigua and Barbuda:
  NA sq km

Argentina:
  17,000 sq km (1993 est.)

Armenia:
  2,870 sq km (1993 est.)

Aruba:
  0.01 sq km

Ashmore and Cartier Islands:
  0 sq km (1993)

Australia:
  21,070 sq km (1993 est.)

Austria:
  457 sq km (1995 est.)

Azerbaijan:
  10,000 sq km (1993 est.)

Bahamas, The:
  NA sq km

Bahrain:
  10 sq km (1993 est.)

Baker Island:
  0 sq km (1993)

Bangladesh:
  31,000 sq km (1993 est.)

Barbados:
  NA sq km

Bassas da India:
  0 sq km (1993)

Belarus:
  1,000 sq km (1993 est.)

Belgium:
  NA sq km

Belize:
  20 sq km (1993 est.)

Benin:
  100 sq km (1993 est.)

Bermuda:
  NA sq km

Bhutan:
  340 sq km (1993 est.)

Bolivia:
  1,750 sq km (1993 est.)

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  20 sq km (1993 est.)

Botswana:
  20 sq km (1993 est.)

Bouvet Island:
  0 sq km (1993)

Brazil:
  28,000 sq km (1993 est.)

British Indian Ocean Territory:
  0 sq km (1993)

British Virgin Islands:
  NA sq km

Brunei:
  10 sq km (1993 est.)

Bulgaria:
  12,370 sq km (1993 est.)

Burkina Faso:
  200 sq km (1993 est.)

Burma:
  10,680 sq km (1993 est.)

Burundi:
  140 sq km (1993 est.)

Cambodia:
  920 sq km (1993 est.)

Cameroon:
  210 sq km (1993 est.)

Canada:
  7,100 sq km (1993 est.)

Cape Verde:
  1,500 to 2,000 hectares (1999)

Cayman Islands:
  NA sq km

Central African Republic:
  NA sq km

Chad:
  140 sq km (1993 est.)

Chile:
  12,650 sq km (1993 est.)

China:
  498,720 sq km (1993 est.)

Christmas Island:
  NA sq km

Clipperton Island:
  0 sq km (1993)

Cocos (Keeling) Islands:
  NA sq km

Colombia:
  5,300 sq km (1993 est.)

Comoros:
  NA sq km

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  100 sq km (1993 est.)

Congo, Republic of the:
  10 sq km (1993 est.)

Cook Islands:
  NA sq km

Coral Sea Islands:
  0 sq km (1993)

Costa Rica:
  1,200 sq km (1993 est.)

Cote d'Ivoire:
  680 sq km (1993 est.)

Croatia:
  30 sq km (1993 est.)

Cuba:
  9,100 sq km (1993 est.)

Cyprus:
  390 sq km (1993 est.)

Czech Republic:
  240 sq km (1993 est.)

Denmark:
  4,350 sq km (1993 est.)

Djibouti:
  NA sq km

Dominica:
  NA sq km

Dominican Republic:
  2,300 sq km (1993 est.)

Ecuador:
  5,560 sq km (1993 est.)

Egypt:
  32,460 sq km (1993 est.)

El Salvador:
  1,200 sq km (1993 est.)

Equatorial Guinea:
  NA sq km

Eritrea:
  280 sq km (1993 est.)

Estonia:
  110 sq km (1996 est.)

Ethiopia:
  1,900 sq km (1993 est.)

Europa Island:
  0 sq km (1993)

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas):
  NA sq km

Faroe Islands:
  0 sq km

Fiji:
  10 sq km (1993 est.)

Finland:
  640 sq km (1993 est.)

France:
  16,300 sq km (1995 est.)

French Guiana:
  20 sq km (1993 est.)

French Polynesia:
  NA sq km

French Southern and Antarctic Lands:
  0 sq km (1993)

Gabon:
  40 sq km (1993 est.)

Gambia, The:
  150 sq km (1993 est.)

Gaza Strip:
  120 sq km (1993 est.)

Georgia:
  4,000 sq km (1993 est.)

Germany:
  4,750 sq km (1993 est.)

Ghana:
  60 sq km (1993 est.)

Gibraltar:
  NA sq km

Glorioso Islands:
  0 sq km (1993)

Greece:
  13,140 sq km (1993 est.)

Greenland:
  NA sq km

Grenada:
  NA sq km

Guadeloupe:
  30 sq km (1993 est.)

Guam:
  NA sq km

Guatemala:
  1,250 sq km (1993 est.)

Guernsey:
  NA sq km

Guinea:
  930 sq km (1993 est.)

Guinea-Bissau:
  17 sq km (1993 est.)

Guyana:
  1,300 sq km (1993 est.)

Haiti:
  750 sq km (1993 est.)

Heard Island and McDonald Islands:
  0 sq km (1993)

Holy See (Vatican City):
  0 sq km (1993)

Honduras:
  740 sq km (1993 est.)

Hong Kong:
  20 sq km (1997 est.)

Howland Island:
  0 sq km (1998)

Hungary:
  2,060 sq km (1993 est.)

Iceland:
  NA sq km

India:
  535,100 sq km (1995/96 est.)

Indonesia:
  45,970 sq km (1993 est.)

Iran:
  94,000 sq km (1993 est.)

Iraq:
  25,500 sq km (1993 est.)

Ireland:
  NA sq km

Israel:
  1,800 sq km (1993 est.)

Italy:
  27,100 sq km (1993 est.)

Jamaica:
  350 sq km (1993 est.)

Jan Mayen:
  0 sq km (1993)

Japan:
  27,820 sq km (1993 est.)

Jarvis Island:
  0 sq km (1998)

Jersey:
  NA sq km

Johnston Atoll:
  0 sq km (1998)

Jordan:
  630 sq km (1993 est.)

Juan de Nova Island:
  0 sq km (1993)

Kazakhstan:
  22,000 sq km (1996 est.)

Kenya:
  660 sq km (1993 est.)

Kingman Reef:
  0 sq km (1996)

Kiribati:
  NA sq km

Korea, North:
  14,600 sq km (1993 est.)

Korea, South:
  13,350 sq km (1993 est.)

Kuwait:
  20 sq km (1993 est.)

Kyrgyzstan:
  9,000 sq km (1993 est.)

Laos:
  1,250 sq km (1993 est.)

  note:  rainy season irrigation - 2,169 sq km; dry season irrigation
  - 750 sq km (1998 est.)

Latvia:
  160 sq km (1993 est.)

Lebanon:
  860 sq km (1993 est.)

Lesotho:
  30 sq km (1993 est.)

Liberia:
  20 sq km (1993 est.)

Libya:
  4,700 sq km (1993 est.)

Liechtenstein:
  NA sq km

Lithuania:
  430 sq km (1993 est.)

Luxembourg:
  10 sq km (including Belgium) (1993 est.)

Macau:
  NA sq km

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  830 sq km (1993 est.)

Madagascar:
  10,870 sq km (1993 est.)

Malawi:
  280 sq km (1993 est.)

Malaysia:
  2,941 sq km (1998 est.)

Maldives:
  NA sq km

Mali:
  780 sq km (1993 est.)

Malta:
  11.45 sq km (2000 est.)

Man, Isle of:
  0 sq km

Marshall Islands:
  NA sq km

Martinique:
  40 sq km (1993 est.)

Mauritania:
  490 sq km (1993 est.)

Mauritius:
  170 sq km (1993 est.)

Mayotte:
  NA sq km

Mexico:
  61,000 sq km (1993 est.)

Micronesia, Federated States of:
  NA sq km

Midway Islands:
  0 sq km (1998)

Moldova:
  3,110 sq km (1993 est.)

Monaco:
  NA sq km

Mongolia:
  800 sq km (1993 est.)

Montserrat:
  NA sq km

Morocco:
  12,580 sq km (1993 est.)

Mozambique:
  1,200 sq km (2000 est.)

Namibia:
  60 sq km (1993 est.)

Nauru:
  NA sq km

Navassa Island:
  0 sq km (1998)

Nepal:
  8,500 sq km (1993 est.)

Netherlands:
  6,000 sq km (1996 est.)

Netherlands Antilles:
  NA sq km

New Caledonia:
  160 sq km (1991)

New Zealand:
  2,850 sq km (1993 est.)

Nicaragua:
  880 sq km (1993 est.)

Niger:
  660 sq km (1993 est.)

Nigeria:
  9,570 sq km (1993 est.)

Niue:
  NA sq km

Norfolk Island:
  NA sq km

Northern Mariana Islands:
  NA sq km

Norway:
  970 sq km (1993 est.)

Oman:
  580 sq km (1993 est.)

Pakistan:
  171,100 sq km (1993 est.)

Palau:
  NA sq km

Palmyra Atoll:
  0 sq km (1993)

Panama:
  320 sq km (1993 est.)

Papua New Guinea:
  NA sq km

Paracel Islands:
  0 sq km (1993)

Paraguay:
  670 sq km (1993 est.)

Peru:
  12,800 sq km (1993 est.)

Philippines:
  15,800 sq km (1993 est.)

Pitcairn Islands:
  NA sq km

Poland:
  1,000 sq km (1993 est.)

Portugal:
  6,300 sq km (1993 est.)

Puerto Rico:
  390 sq km (1993 est.)

Qatar:
  80 sq km (1993 est.)

Reunion:
  60 sq km (1993 est.)

Romania:
  31,020 sq km (1993 est.)

Russia:
  40,000 sq km (1993 est.)

Rwanda:
  40 sq km (1993 est.)

Saint Helena:
  NA sq km

Saint Kitts and Nevis:
  NA sq km

Saint Lucia:
  10 sq km (1993 est.)

Saint Pierre and Miquelon:
  NA sq km

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:
  10 sq km (1993 est.)

Samoa:
  NA sq km

San Marino:
  NA sq km

Sao Tome and Principe:
  100 sq km (1993 est.)

Saudi Arabia:
  4,350 sq km (1993 est.)

Senegal:
  710 sq km (1993 est.)

Seychelles:
  NA sq km

Sierra Leone:
  290 sq km (1993 est.)

Singapore:
  NA sq km

Slovakia:
  800 sq km (1993 est.)

Slovenia:
  20 sq km (1993 est.)

Solomon Islands:
  NA sq km

Somalia:
  1,800 sq km (1993 est.)

South Africa:
  12,700 sq km (1993 est.)

South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands:
  0 sq km (1993)

Spain:
  34,530 sq km (1993 est.)

Spratly Islands:
  0 sq km (1993)

Sri Lanka:
  5,500 sq km (1993 est.)

Sudan:
  19,460 sq km (1993 est.)

Suriname:
  600 sq km (1993 est.)

Svalbard:
  NA sq km

Swaziland:
  670 sq km (1993 est.)

Sweden:
  1,150 sq km (1993 est.)

Switzerland:
  250 sq km (1993 est.)

Syria:
  9,060 sq km (1993 est.)

Tajikistan:
  6,390 sq km (1993 est.)

Tanzania:
  1,500 sq km (1993 est.)

Thailand:
  44,000 sq km (1993 est.)

Togo:
  70 sq km (1993 est.)

Tokelau:
  NA sq km

Tonga:
  NA sq km

Trinidad and Tobago:
  220 sq km (1993 est.)

Tromelin Island:
  0 sq km (1993)

Tunisia:
  3,850 sq km (1993 est.)

Turkey:
  36,740 sq km (1993 est.)

Turkmenistan:
  13,000 sq km (1993 est.)

Turks and Caicos Islands:
  NA sq km

Tuvalu:
  NA sq km

Uganda:
  90 sq km (1993 est.)

Ukraine:
  26,050 sq km (1993 est.)

United Arab Emirates:
  50 sq km (1993 est.)

United Kingdom:
  1,080 sq km (1993 est.)

United States:
  207,000 sq km (1993 est.)

Uruguay:
  7,700 sq km (1997 est.)

Uzbekistan:
  40,000 sq km (1993 est.)

Vanuatu:
  NA sq km

Venezuela:
  1,900 sq km (1993 est.)

Vietnam:
  18,600 sq km (1993 est.)

Virgin Islands:
  NA sq km

Wake Island:
  0 sq km (1998)

Wallis and Futuna:
  NA sq km

West Bank:
  NA sq km

Western Sahara:
  NA sq km

World:
  2,481,250 sq km (1993 est.)

Yemen:
  5,674 sq km (1999)

Yugoslavia:
  NA sq km

Zambia:
  460 sq km (1993 est.)

Zimbabwe:
  1,930 sq km (1993 est.)

Taiwan:
  NA sq km

======================================================================

@Judicial branch



Afghanistan:
  upper courts were non-functioning as of March 1995
  (local Shari'a or Islamic law courts are functioning throughout the
  country)

Albania:
  Supreme Court (chairman is elected by the People's Assembly
  for a four-year term)

Algeria:
  Supreme Court or Cour Supreme

American Samoa:
  High Court (chief justice and associate justices are
  appointed by the US Secretary of the Interior)

Andorra:
  Tribunal of Judges or Tribunal de Batlles; Tribunal of the
  Courts or Tribunal de Corts; Supreme Court of Justice of Andorra or
  Tribunal Superior de Justicia d'Andorra; Supreme Council of Justice
  or Consell Superior de la Justicia; Fiscal Ministry or Ministeri
  Fiscal; Constitutional Tribunal or Tribunal Constitucional

Angola:
  Supreme Court or Tribunal da Relacao (judges are appointed
  by the president)

Anguilla:
  High Court (judge provided by Eastern Caribbean Supreme
  Court)

Antigua and Barbuda:
  Eastern Caribbean Supreme Court (based in Saint
  Lucia; one judge of the Supreme Court is a resident of the islands
  and presides over the Court of Summary Jurisdiction)

Argentina:
  Supreme Court or Corte Suprema (the nine Supreme Court
  judges are appointed by the president with approval by the Senate)

Armenia:
  Supreme Court; Constitutional Court

Aruba:
  Joint High Court of Justice (judges are appointed by the
  monarch)

Australia:
  High Court (the chief justice and six other justices are
  appointed by the governor general)

Austria:
  Supreme Judicial Court or Oberster Gerichtshof;
  Administrative Court or Verwaltungsgerichtshof; Constitutional Court
  or Verfassungsgerichtshof

Azerbaijan:
  Supreme Court

Bahamas, The:
  Supreme Court; Court of Appeal; magistrates courts

Bahrain:
  High Civil Appeals Court

Bangladesh:
  Supreme Court (the chief justices and other judges are
  appointed by the president)

Barbados:
  Supreme Court of Judicature (judges are appointed by the
  Service Commissions for the Judicial and Legal Services)

Belarus:
  Supreme Court (judges are appointed by the president);
  Constitutional Court (half of the judges appointed by the president
  and half appointed by the Chamber of Representatives)

Belgium:
  Supreme Court of Justice or Hof van Cassatie (in Dutch) or
  Cour de Cassation (in French) (judges are appointed for life by the
  monarch)

Belize:
  Supreme Court (the chief justice is appointed by the
  governor general on the advice of the prime minister)

Benin:
  Constitutional Court or Cour Constitutionnelle; Supreme Court
  or Cour Supreme; High Court of Justice

Bermuda:
  Supreme Court; Court of Appeal; Magistrate Courts

Bhutan:
  Supreme Court of Appeal (the monarch); High Court (judges
  appointed by the monarch)

Bolivia:
  Supreme Court or Corte Suprema (judges appointed for
  10-year terms by National Congress); District Courts (one in each
  department); provincial and local courts (to try minor cases)

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  BiH Constitutional Court (consists of nine
  members: four members are selected by the Bosniak/Croat Federation's
  House of Representatives, two members by the Republika Srpska's
  National Assembly, and three non-Bosnian members by the president of
  the European Court of Human Rights)

  note:  a new state court, established in November 1999, has
  jurisdiction over cases related to state-level law and appellate
  jurisdiction over cases initiated in the entities; the entities each
  have a Supreme Court; each entity also has a number of lower courts;
  there are ten cantonal courts in the Federation, plus a number of
  municipal courts; the Republika Srpska has five municipal courts

Botswana:
  High Court; Court of Appeal; Magistrates' Courts (one in
  each district)

Brazil:
  Supreme Federal Tribunal (11 ministers are appointed by the
  president and confirmed by the Senate); Higher Tribunal of Justice;
  Regional Federal Tribunals (judges are appointed for life)

British Virgin Islands:
  Eastern Caribbean Supreme Court, consisting
  of the High Court of Justice and the Court of Appeal (one judge of
  the Supreme Court is a resident of the islands and presides over the
  High Court); Magistrate's Court; Juvenile Court; Court of Summary
  Jurisdiction

Brunei:
  Supreme Court (chief justice and judges are sworn in by the
  monarch for three-year terms)

Bulgaria:
  Supreme Administrative Court; Supreme Court of Cassation;
  Constitutional Court (12 justices appointed or elected for nine-year
  terms); Supreme Judicial Council (consists of the chairmen of the
  two Supreme Courts, the Chief Prosecutor, and 22 other members;
  responsible for appointing the justices, prosecutors, and
  investigating magistrates in the justice system; members of the
  Supreme Judicial Council elected for five-year terms, 11 elected by
  the National Assembly and 11 by bodies of the judiciary)

Burkina Faso:
  Supreme Court; Appeals Court

Burma:
  remnants of the British-era legal system are in place, but
  there is no guarantee of a fair public trial; the judiciary is not
  independent of the executive

Burundi:
  Supreme Court or Cour Supreme; Constitutional Court; Courts
  of Appeal (there are three in separate locations); Tribunals of
  First Instance (17 at the province level and 123 small local
  tribunals)

Cambodia:
  Supreme Council of the Magistracy (provided for in the
  constitution and formed in December 1997); Supreme Court (and lower
  courts) exercises judicial authority

Cameroon:
  Supreme Court (judges are appointed by the president);
  High Court of Justice (consists of nine judges and 6 substitute
  judges, elected by the National Assembly)

Canada:
  Supreme Court of Canada (judges are appointed by the prime
  minister through the governor general); Federal Court of Canada;
  Federal Court of Appeal; Provincial Courts (these are named
  variously Court of Appeal, Court of Queens Bench, Superior Court,
  Supreme Court, and Court of Justice)

Cape Verde:
  Supreme Tribunal of Justice or Supremo Tribunal de Justia

Cayman Islands:
  Summary Court; Grand Court; Cayman Islands Court of
  Appeal

Central African Republic:
  Supreme Court or Cour Supreme;
  Constitutional Court (all judges appointed by the president); Court
  of Appeal; Criminal Courts

Chad:
  Supreme Court; Court of Appeal; Criminal Courts; Magistrate
  Courts

Chile:
  Supreme Court or Corte Suprema (judges are appointed by the
  president and ratified by the Senate from lists of candidates
  provided by the court itself; the president of the Supreme Court is
  elected by the 21-member court); Constitutional Tribunal

China:
  Supreme People's Court (judges appointed by the National
  People's Congress); Local Peoples Courts (comprise higher,
  intermediate and local courts); Special Peoples Courts (primarily
  military, maritime, and railway transport courts)

Christmas Island:
  Supreme Court; District Court; Magistrate's Court

Cocos (Keeling) Islands:
  Supreme Court; Magistrate's Court

Colombia:
  four, coequal, supreme judicial organs; Supreme Court of
  Justice or Corte Suprema de Justical (highest court of criminal law;
  judges are selected from the nominees of the Higher Council of
  Justice for eight-year terms); Council of State (highest court of
  administrative law, judges are selected from the nominees of the
  Higher Council of Justice for eight-year terms); Constitutional
  Court (guards integrity and supremacy of the constitution, rules on
  constitutionality of laws, amendments to the constitution, and
  international treaties); Higher Council of Justice (administers and
  disciplines the civilian judiciary; members of the disciplinary
  chamber resolve jurisdictional conflicts arising between other
  courts; members are elected by three sister courts and Congress for
  eight-year terms)

Comoros:
  Supreme Court or Cour Supremes (two members appointed by
  the president, two members elected by the Federal Assembly, one
  elected by the Council of each island, and others are former
  presidents of the republic)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  Supreme Court or Cour Supreme

Congo, Republic of the:
  Supreme Court or Cour Supreme

Cook Islands:
  High Court

Costa Rica:
  Supreme Court or Corte Suprema (22 justices are elected
  for eight-year terms by the Legislative Assembly)

Cote d'Ivoire:
  Supreme Court or Cour Supreme consists of four
  chambers: Judicial Chamber for criminal cases, Audit Chamber for
  financial cases, Constitutional Chamber for judicial review cases,
  and Administrative Chamber for civil cases; there is no legal limit
  to the number of members

Croatia:
  Supreme Court; Constitutional Court; judges for both courts
  appointed for eight-year terms by the Judicial Council of the
  Republic, which is elected by the House of Representatives

Cuba:
  People's Supreme Court or Tribunal Supremo Popular (president,
  vice president, and other judges are elected by the National
  Assembly)

Cyprus:
  Supreme Court (judges are appointed by the Supreme Council
  of Judicature)

  note:  there is also a Supreme Court in the Turkish Cypriot area

Czech Republic:
  Supreme Court; Constitutional Court; chairman and
  deputy chairmen are appointed by the president for a 10-year term

Denmark:
  Supreme Court (judges are appointed by the monarch for life)

Djibouti:
  Supreme Court or Cour Supreme

Dominica:
  Eastern Caribbean Supreme Court, consisting of the Court
  of Appeal and the High Court (located in Saint Lucia; one of the six
  judges must reside in Dominica and preside over the Court of Summary
  Jurisdiction)

Dominican Republic:
  Supreme Court or Corte Suprema (judges are
  elected by a Council made up of members of the legislative and
  executive branches with the president presiding)

Ecuador:
  Supreme Court or Corte Suprema (new justices are elected by
  the full Supreme Court)

Egypt:
  Supreme Constitutional Court

El Salvador:
  Supreme Court or Corte Suprema (judges are selected by
  the Legislative Assembly)

Equatorial Guinea:
  Supreme Tribunal

Eritrea:
  Supreme Court; 10 provincial courts; 29 district courts

Estonia:
  National Court (chairman appointed by Parliament for life)

Ethiopia:
  Federal Supreme Court (the president and vice president of
  the Federal Supreme Court are recommended by the prime minister and
  appointed by the House of People's Representatives; for other
  federal judges, the prime minister submits to the House of People's
  Representatives for appointment candidates selected by the Federal
  Judicial Administrative Council)

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas):
  Supreme Court (chief justice is a
  nonresident); Magistrates Court (senior magistrate presides over
  civil and criminal divisions)

Faroe Islands:
  none

Fiji:
  Supreme Court (judges are appointed by the president)

Finland:
  Supreme Court or Korkein Oikeus (judges appointed by the
  president)

France:
  Supreme Court of Appeals or Cour de Cassation (judges are
  appointed by the president from nominations of the High Council of
  the Judiciary); Constitutional Council or Conseil Constitutionnel
  (three members appointed by the president, three appointed by the
  president of the National Assembly, and three appointed by the
  president of the Senate); Council of State or Conseil d'Etat

French Guiana:
  Court of Appeals or Cour d'Appel (highest local court
  based in Martinique with jurisdiction over Martinique, Guadeloupe,
  and French Guiana)

French Polynesia:
  Court of Appeal or Cour d'Appel; Court of the
  First Instance or Tribunal de Premiere Instance; Court of
  Administrative Law or Tribunal Administratif

Gabon:
  Supreme Court or Cour Supreme consisting of three chambers -
  Judicial, Administrative, and Accounts; Constitutional Court; Courts
  of Appeal; Court of State Security; County Courts

Gambia, The:
  Supreme Court

Georgia:
  Supreme Court (judges elected by the Supreme Council on the
  president's recommendation); Constitutional Court

Germany:
  Federal Constitutional Court or Bundesverfassungsgericht
  (half the judges are elected by the Bundestag and half by the
  Bundesrat)

Ghana:
  Supreme Court

Gibraltar:
  Supreme Court; Court of Appeal

Greece:
  Supreme Judicial Court; Special Supreme Tribunal; all judges
  appointed for life by the president after consultation with a
  judicial council

Greenland:
  High Court or Landsret (appeals can be made to the Ostre
  Landsret or Eastern Division of the High Court or Supreme Court in
  Copenhagen)

Grenada:
  West Indies Associate States Supreme Court (an associate
  judge resides in Grenada)

Guadeloupe:
  Court of Appeal or Cour d'Appel with jurisdiction over
  Guadeloupe, French Guiana, and Martinique

Guam:
  Federal District Court (judge is appointed by the president);
  Territorial Superior Court (judges appointed for eight-year terms by
  the governor)

Guatemala:
  Supreme Court of Justice or Corte Suprema de Justicia
  (thirteen members serve concurrent five-year terms and elect a
  president of the Court each year from among their number; the
  president of the Supreme Court of Justice also supervises trial
  judges around the country, who are named to five-year terms);
  Constitutional Court or Corte de Constitutcionalidad (five judges
  are elected for concurrent five-year terms by Congress, each serving
  one year as president of the Constitutional Court; one is elected by
  Congress, one elected by the Supreme Court of Justice, one appointed
  by the President, one elected by Superior Counsel of Universidad San
  Carlos de Guatemala, and one by Colegio de Abogados)

Guernsey:
  Royal Court

Guinea:
  Court of Appeal or Cour d'Appel

Guinea-Bissau:
  Supreme Court or Supremo Tribunal da Justica
  (consists of nine justices who are appointed by the president and
  serve at his pleasure; final court of appeals in criminal and civil
  cases); Regional Courts (one in each of nine regions; first court of
  appeals for Sectoral Court decisions; hear all felony cases and
  civil cases valued at over $1,000); 24 Sectoral Courts (judges are
  not necessarily trained lawyers; they hear civil cases under $1,000
  and misdemeanor criminal cases)

Guyana:
  Supreme Court of Judicature; Judicial Court of Appeal; High
  Court

Haiti:
  Supreme Court or Cour de Cassation

Holy See (Vatican City):
  none; normally handled by Italy

Honduras:
  Supreme Court of Justice or Corte Suprema de Justicia
  (judges are elected for four-year terms by the National Congress)

Hong Kong:
  The Court of Final Appeal in the Hong Kong Special
  Administrative Region

Hungary:
  Constitutional Court (judges are elected by the National
  Assembly for nine-year terms)

Iceland:
  Supreme Court or Haestirettur (justices are appointed for
  life by the president)

India:
  Supreme Court (judges are appointed by the president and
  remain in office until they reach the age of 65)

Indonesia:
  Supreme Court or Mahkamah Agung (justices appointed by
  the president from a list of candidates approved by the legislature)

Iran:
  Supreme Court

Iraq:
  Court of Cassation

Ireland:
  Supreme Court (judges appointed by the president on the
  advice of the prime minister and cabinet)

Israel:
  Supreme Court (justices appointed for life by the president)

Italy:
  Constitutional Court or Corte Costituzionale (composed of 15
  judges: one-third appointed by the president, one-third elected by
  Parliament, one-third elected by the ordinary and administrative
  Supreme Courts)

Jamaica:
  Supreme Court (judges appointed by the governor general on
  the advice of the prime minister); Court of Appeal

Japan:
  Supreme Court (chief justice is appointed by the monarch
  after designation by the cabinet; all other justices are appointed
  by the cabinet)

Jersey:
  Royal Court (judges elected by an electoral college and the
  bailiff)

Jordan:
  Court of Cassation; Supreme Court (court of final appeal)

Kazakhstan:
  Supreme Court (44 members); Constitutional Council (7
  members)

Kenya:
  Court of Appeal (chief justice is appointed by the
  president); High Court

Kiribati:
  Court of Appeal; High Court; 26 Magistrates' courts;
  judges at all levels are appointed by the president

Korea, North:
  Central Court (judges are elected by the Supreme
  People's Assembly)

Korea, South:
  Supreme Court (justices are appointed by the president
  with the consent of the National Assembly)

Kuwait:
  High Court of Appeal

Kyrgyzstan:
  Supreme Court (judges are appointed for 10-year terms by
  the Supreme Council on the recommendation of the president);
  Constitutional Court; Higher Court of Arbitration

Laos:
  People's Supreme Court (the president of the People's Supreme
  Court is elected by the National Assembly on the recommendation of
  the National Assembly Standing Committee; the vice president of the
  People's Supreme Court and the judges are appointed by the National
  Assembly Standing Committee)

Latvia:
  Supreme Court (judges' appointments are confirmed by
  Parliament)

Lebanon:
  four Courts of Cassation (three courts for civil and
  commercial cases and one court for criminal cases); Constitutional
  Council (called for in Ta'if Accord - rules on constitutionality of
  laws); Supreme Council (hears charges against the president and
  prime minister as needed)

Lesotho:
  High Court (chief justice appointed by the monarch); Court
  of Appeal; Magistrate's Court; customary or traditional court

Liberia:
  Supreme Court

Libya:
  Supreme Court

Liechtenstein:
  Supreme Court or Oberster Gerichtshof; Superior Court
  or Obergericht

Lithuania:
  Supreme Court; Court of Appeal; judges for both courts
  appointed by the Parliament

Luxembourg:
  judicial courts and tribunals (3 Justices of the Peace,
  2 district courts, and 1 Supreme Court of Appeals); administrative
  courts and tribunals (State Prosecutor's Office, administrative
  courts and tribunals, and the Constitutional Court); judges for all
  courts are appointed for life by the monarch

Macau:
  The Court of Final Appeal in the Macau Special Administrative
  Region

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  Constitutional Court;
  Judicial Court of the Republic; judges for both courts are elected
  by the Judicial Council

Madagascar:
  Supreme Court or Cour Supreme; High Constitutional Court
  or Haute Cour Constitutionnelle

Malawi:
  Supreme Court of Appeal; High Court (chief justice appointed
  by the president, puisne judges appointed on the advice of the
  Judicial Service Commission); magistrate's courts

Malaysia:
  Federal Court (judges appointed by the paramount ruler on
  the advice of the prime minister)

Maldives:
  High Court

Mali:
  Supreme Court or Cour Supreme

Malta:
  Constitutional Court; Court of Appeal; judges for both courts
  are appointed by the president on the advice of the prime minister

Man, Isle of:
  High Court of Justice (justices are appointed by the
  Lord Chancellor of England on the nomination of the lieutenant
  governor)

Marshall Islands:
  Supreme Court; High Court

Martinique:
  Court of Appeal or Cour d'Appel

Mauritania:
  Supreme Court or Cour Supreme; Court of Appeals; lower
  courts

Mauritius:
  Supreme Court

Mayotte:
  Supreme Court or Tribunal Superieur d'Appel

Mexico:
  Supreme Court of Justice or Corte Suprema de Justicia
  (judges are appointed by the president with consent of the Senate)

Micronesia, Federated States of:
  Supreme Court

Moldova:
  Supreme Court; Constitutional Court (the sole authority for
  constitutional judicature)

Monaco:
  Supreme Court or Tribunal Supreme (judges appointed by the
  monarch on the basis of nominations by the National Council)

Mongolia:
  Supreme Court (serves as appeals court for people's and
  provincial courts, but rarely overturns verdicts of lower courts;
  judges are nominated by the General Council of Courts for approval
  by the president)

Montserrat:
  Eastern Caribbean Supreme Court (based in Saint Lucia,
  one judge of the Supreme Court is a resident of the islands and
  presides over the High Court)

Morocco:
  Supreme Court (judges are appointed on the recommendation
  of the Supreme Council of the Judiciary, presided over by the
  monarch)

Mozambique:
  Supreme Court (the court of final appeal; some of its
  professional judges are appointed by the president and some are
  elected by the Assembly); other courts include an Administrative
  Court, customs courts, maritime courts, courts marshal, labor courts

  note:  although the constitution provides for the creation of a
  separate Constitutional Court, one has never been established; in
  its absence the Supreme Court reviews constitutional cases

Namibia:
  Supreme Court (judges appointed by the president on the
  recommendation of the Judicial Service Commission)

Nauru:
  Supreme Court

Nepal:
  Supreme Court or Sarbochha Adalat (chief justice is appointed
  by the monarch on recommendation of the Constitutional Council; the
  other judges are appointed by the monarch on the recommendation of
  the Judicial Council)

Netherlands:
  Supreme Court or Hoge Raad (justices are nominated for
  life by the monarch)

Netherlands Antilles:
  Joint High Court of Justice (judges appointed
  by the monarch)

New Caledonia:
  Court of Appeal or Cour d'Appel; County Courts; Joint
  Commerce Tribunal Court; Children's Court

New Zealand:
  High Court; Court of Appeal

Nicaragua:
  Supreme Court or Corte Suprema (16 judges elected for
  seven-year terms by the National Assembly)

Niger:
  State Court or Cour d'Etat; Court of Appeal or Cour d'Appel

Nigeria:
  Supreme Court (judges appointed by the Provisional Ruling
  Council); Federal Court of Appeal (judges are appointed by the
  federal government on the advice of the Advisory Judicial Committee)

Niue:
  Supreme Court of New Zealand; High Court of Niue

Norfolk Island:
  Supreme Court; Court of Petty Sessions

Northern Mariana Islands:
  Commonwealth Supreme Court; Superior
  Court; Federal District Court

Norway:
  Supreme Court or Hoyesterett (justices appointed by the
  monarch)

Oman:
  Supreme Court

  note:  the nascent civil court system, administered by region, has
  non-Islamic judges as well as traditional Islamic judges

Pakistan:
  Supreme Court (justices appointed by the president);
  Federal Islamic or Shari'a Court

Palau:
  Supreme Court; National Court; Court of Common Pleas

Panama:
  Supreme Court of Justice or Corte Suprema de Justicia (nine
  judges appointed for 10-year terms); five superior courts; three
  courts of appeal

Papua New Guinea:
  Supreme Court (the chief justice is appointed by
  the governor general on the proposal of the National Executive
  Council after consultation with the minister responsible for
  justice; other judges are appointed by the Judicial and Legal
  Services Commission)

Paraguay:
  Supreme Court of Justice or Corte Suprema de Justicia
  (judges appointed on the proposal of the Counsel of Magistrates or
  Consejo de la Magistratura)

Peru:
  Supreme Court of Justice or Corte Suprema de Justicia (judges
  are appointed by the National Council of the Judiciary)

Philippines:
  Supreme Court (justices are appointed for four-year
  terms by the president on the recommendation of the Judicial and Bar
  Council)

Pitcairn Islands:
  Island Court (island magistrate presides over the
  court and is elected every three years)

Poland:
  Supreme Court (judges are appointed by the president on the
  recommendation of the National Council of the Judiciary for an
  indefinite period); Constitutional Tribunal (judges are chosen by
  the Sejm for nine-year terms)

Portugal:
  Supreme Court or Supremo Tribunal de Justica (judges
  appointed for life by the Conselho Superior da Magistratura)

Puerto Rico:
  Supreme Court; Superior Courts; Municipal Courts
  (justices for all these courts appointed by the governor with the
  consent of the Senate)

Qatar:
  Court of Appeal

Reunion:
  Court of Appeals or Cour d'Appel

Romania:
  Supreme Court of Justice (judges are appointed by the
  president on the recommendation of the Superior Council of
  Magistrates)

Russia:
  Constitutional Court; Supreme Court; Superior Court of
  Arbitration; judges for all courts are appointed for life by the
  Federation Council on the recommendation of the president

Rwanda:
  Supreme Court; communal courts; appeals courts

Saint Helena:
  Supreme Court; Magistrate's Court; Small Debts Court;
  Juvenile Court

Saint Kitts and Nevis:
  Eastern Caribbean Supreme Court (based on
  Saint Lucia; one judge of the Supreme Court resides in Saint Kitts
  and Nevis)

Saint Lucia:
  Eastern Caribbean Supreme Court (jurisdiction extends
  to Anguilla, Antigua and Barbuda, the British Virgin Islands,
  Dominica, Grenada, Montserrat, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia,
  and Saint Vincent and the Grenadines)

Saint Pierre and Miquelon:
  Superior Tribunal of Appeals or Tribunal
  Superieur d'Appel

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:
  Eastern Caribbean Supreme Court
  (based on Saint Lucia; one judge of the Supreme Court resides in
  Saint Vincent and the Grenadines)

Samoa:
  Supreme Court; Court of Appeal

San Marino:
  Council of Twelve or Consiglio dei XII

Sao Tome and Principe:
  Supreme Court (judges are appointed by the
  National Assembly)

Saudi Arabia:
  Supreme Council of Justice

Senegal:
  Constitutional Court; Council of State; Court of Final
  Appeals or Cour de Cassation; Court of Appeals; note-the judicial
  system was reformed in 1992

Seychelles:
  Court of Appeal; Supreme Court; judges for both courts
  are appointed by the president

Sierra Leone:
  Supreme Court; Appeals Court; High Court

Singapore:
  Supreme Court (chief justice is appointed by the
  president with the advice of the prime minister, other judges are
  appointed by the president with the advice of the chief justice);
  Court of Appeals

Slovakia:
  Supreme Court (judges are elected by the National
  Council); Constitutional Court (judges appointed by president from
  group of nominees approved by the National Council)

Slovenia:
  Supreme Court (judges are elected by the National Assembly
  on the recommendation of the Judicial Council); Constitutional Court
  (judges elected for nine-year terms by the National Assembly and
  nominated by the president)

Solomon Islands:
  Court of Appeal

Somalia:
  following the breakdown of national government, most
  regions have reverted to Islamic (Shari'a) law with a provision for
  appeal of all sentences

South Africa:
  Constitutional Court; Supreme Court of Appeals; High
  Courts; Magistrate Courts

Spain:
  Supreme Court or Tribunal Supremo

Sri Lanka:
  Supreme Court; Court of Appeals; judges for both courts
  are appointed by the president

Sudan:
  Supreme Court; Special Revolutionary Courts

Suriname:
  Court of Justice (justices are nominated for life)

Swaziland:
  High Court; Court of Appeal; judges for both courts are
  appointed by the monarch

Sweden:
  Supreme Court or Hogsta Domstolen (judges are appointed by
  the prime minister and the cabinet)

Switzerland:
  Federal Supreme Court (judges elected for six-year
  terms by the Federal Assembly)

Syria:
  Supreme Constitutional Court (justices are appointed for
  four-year terms by the president); High Judicial Council; Court of
  Cassation; State Security Courts

Tajikistan:
  Supreme Court (judges are appointed by the president)

Tanzania:
  Permanent Commission of Enquiry (official ombudsman);
  Court of Appeal (consists of a chief justice and four judges); High
  Court (consists of a Jaji Kiongozi and 29 judges appointed by the
  president; holds regular sessions in all regions); District Courts;
  Primary Courts (limited jurisdiction and appeals can be made to the
  higher courts)

Thailand:
  Supreme Court or Sandika (judges appointed by the monarch)

Togo:
  Court of Appeal or Cour d'Appel; Supreme Court or Cour Supreme

Tokelau:
  Supreme Court in New Zealand exercises civil and criminal
  jurisdiction in Tokelau

Tonga:
  Supreme Court (judges are appointed by the monarch); Court of
  Appeal (consists of the Privy Council with the addition of the chief
  justice of the Supreme Court)

Trinidad and Tobago:
  Supreme Court of Judicature (comprised of the
  High Court of Justice and the Court of Appeals; the chief justice is
  appointed by the president on the advice of the prime minister and
  the leader of the opposition; other justices are appointed by the
  president on the advice of the Judicial and Legal Service
  Commission); High Court of Justice; Court of Appeals; The Majistracy
  (hears minor civil cases and summary criminal cases)

Tunisia:
  Court of Cassation or Cour de Cassation

Turkey:
  Constitutional Court (judges are appointed by the
  president); Court of Appeals (judges are elected by the Supreme
  Council of Judges and Prosecutors)

Turkmenistan:
  Supreme Court (judges are appointed by the president)

Turks and Caicos Islands:
  Supreme Court

Tuvalu:
  High Court (a chief justice visits twice a year to preside
  over its sessions; its rulings can be appealed to the Court of
  Appeal in Fiji); eight Island Courts (with limited jurisdiction)

Uganda:
  Court of Appeal (judges are appointed by the president and
  approved by the legislature); High Court (judges are appointed by
  the president)

Ukraine:
  Supreme Court; Constitutional Court

United Arab Emirates:
  Union Supreme Court (judges are appointed by
  the president)

United Kingdom:
  House of Lords (highest court of appeal; several
  Lords of Appeal in Ordinary are appointed by the monarch for life);
  Supreme Courts of England, Wales, and Northern Ireland (comprising
  the Courts of Appeal, the High Courts of Justice, and the Crown
  Courts); Scotland's Court of Session and Court of the Justiciary

United States:
  Supreme Court (its nine justices are appointed for
  life by the president with confirmation by the Senate); United
  States Courts of Appeal; United States District Courts; State and
  County Courts

Uruguay:
  Supreme Court (judges are nominated by the president and
  elected for 10-year terms by the General Assembly)

Uzbekistan:
  Supreme Court (judges are nominated by the president and
  confirmed by the Supreme Assembly)

Vanuatu:
  Supreme Court (chief justice is appointed by the president
  after consultation with the prime minister and the leader of the
  opposition, three other justices are appointed by the president on
  the advice of the Judicial Service Commission)

Venezuela:
  Supreme Tribunal of Justice or Tribuna Suprema de
  Justicia (magistrates are elected by the National Assembly for a
  single 12-year term)

Vietnam:
  Supreme People's Court (chief justice is elected for a
  five-year term by the National Assembly on the recommendation of the
  president)

Virgin Islands:
  US District Court of the Virgin Islands (under Third
  Circuit jurisdiction); Territorial Court (judges appointed by the
  governor for 10-year terms)

Wallis and Futuna:
  none; justice generally administered under French
  law by the high administrator, but the three traditional kings
  administer customary law and there is a magistrate in Mata-Utu

Yemen:
  Supreme Court

Yugoslavia:
  Federal Court or Savezni Sud; Constitutional Court;
  judges for both courts are elected by the Federal Assembly for
  nine-year terms

Zambia:
  Supreme Court (the final court of appeal; justices are
  appointed by the president); High Court (has unlimited jurisdiction
  to hear civil and criminal cases)

Zimbabwe:
  Supreme Court; High Court

Taiwan:
  Judicial Yuan (justices appointed by the president with the
  consent of the National Assembly; note - beginning in 2003, justices
  will be appointed by the president with the consent of the
  Legislative Yuan)

======================================================================

@Labor force



Afghanistan:
  10 million (2000 est.)

Albania:
  1.692 million (including 352,000 emigrant workers and
  261,000 domestically unemployed) (1994 est.)

Algeria:
  9.1 million (2000 est.)

American Samoa:
  14,000 (1996)

Andorra:
  30,787 salaried employees (1998)

Angola:
  5 million (1997 est.)

Anguilla:
  4,400 (1992)

Antigua and Barbuda:
  30,000

Argentina:
  15 million (1999)

Armenia:
  1.5 million (1999)

Aruba:
  41,501 (1997 est.)

Australia:
  9.5 million (December 1999)

Austria:
  3.7 million (1999)

Azerbaijan:
  2.9 million (1997)

Bahamas, The:
  156,000 (1999)

Bahrain:
  295,000 (1998 est.)

  note:  44% of the population in the 15-64 age group is non-national
  (July 1998 est.)

Bangladesh:
  64.1 million (1998)

  note:  extensive export of labor to Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, UAE, Oman,
  Qatar, and Malaysia; workers' remittances estimated at $1.71 billion
  in 1998-99

Barbados:
  136,000 (1998 est.)

Belarus:
  4.8 million (2000)

Belgium:
  4.34 million (1999)

Belize:
  71,000

  note:  shortage of skilled labor and all types of technical
  personnel (1997 est.)

Benin:
  NA

Bermuda:
  35,296 (1997)

Bhutan:
  NA

  note:  massive lack of skilled labor

Bolivia:
  2.5 million

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  1.026 million

Botswana:
  235,000 formal sector employees (1995)

Brazil:
  79 million (1999 est.)

British Virgin Islands:
  4,911 (1980)

Brunei:
  144,000 (1995 est.); note - includes foreign workers and
  military personnel

  note:  temporary residents make up 41% of labor force (1991)

Bulgaria:
  3.83 million (2000 est.)

Burkina Faso:
  5 million (1999)

  note:  a large part of the male labor force migrates annually to
  neighboring countries for seasonal employment

Burma:
  19.7 million (FY98/99 est.)

Burundi:
  1.9 million

Cambodia:
  6 million (1998 est.)

Cameroon:
  NA

Canada:
  16.1 million (2000)

Cape Verde:
  NA

Cayman Islands:
  19,820 (1995)

Central African Republic:
  NA

Chad:
  NA

Chile:
  5.8 million (1999 est.)

China:
  700 million (1998 est.)

Christmas Island:
  NA

Cocos (Keeling) Islands:
  NA

Colombia:
  18.3 million (1999 est.)

Comoros:
  144,500 (1996 est.)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  14.51 million (1993 est.)

Congo, Republic of the:
  NA

Cook Islands:
  6,601 (1993)

Costa Rica:
  1.9 million (1999)

Cote d'Ivoire:
  68% agricultural (2000 est.)

Croatia:
  1.68 million (October 2000)

Cuba:
  4.3 million (2000 est.)

  note:  state sector 75%, non-state sector 25% (1998)

Cyprus:
  Greek Cypriot area: 291,000; Turkish Cypriot area: 86,300
  (2000)

Czech Republic:
  5.203 million (1999 est.)

Denmark:
  2.856 million (2000 est.)

Djibouti:
  282,000

Dominica:
  25,000

Dominican Republic:
  2.3 million - 2.6 million

Ecuador:
  4.2 million

Egypt:
  19.9 million (2000 est.)

El Salvador:
  2.35 million (1999)

Equatorial Guinea:
  NA

Eritrea:
  NA

Estonia:
  785,500 (1999 est.)

Ethiopia:
  NA

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas):
  1,100 (est.)

Faroe Islands:
  24,250 (October 2000)

Fiji:
  235,000

Finland:
  2.6 million (2000 est.)

France:
  25 million (2000)

French Guiana:
  58,800 (1997)

French Polynesia:
  70,000 (1996)

Gabon:
  600,000

Gambia, The:
  400,000

Gaza Strip:
  NA

Georgia:
  3.08 million (1997)

Germany:
  40.5 million (1999 est.)

Ghana:
  9 million (2000 est.)

Gibraltar:
  14,800 (including non-Gibraltar laborers)

Greece:
  4.32 million (1999 est.)

Greenland:
  24,500 (1999 est.)

Grenada:
  42,300 (1996)

Guadeloupe:
  125,900 (1997)

Guam:
  60,000 (2000 est.)

Guatemala:
  4.2 million (1999 est.)

Guernsey:
  31,322 (2000)

Guinea:
  3 million (1999)

Guinea-Bissau:
  480,000

Guyana:
  245,492 (1992)

Haiti:
  3.6 million (1995)

  note:  shortage of skilled labor, unskilled labor abundant (1998)

Holy See (Vatican City):
  NA

Honduras:
  2.3 million (1997 est.)

Hong Kong:
  3.39 million (2000 est.)

Hungary:
  4.2 million (1997)

Iceland:
  159,000 (2000)

India:
  NA

Indonesia:
  99 million (1999)

Iran:
  17.3 million

  note:  shortage of skilled labor (1998)

Iraq:
  4.4 million (1989)

Ireland:
  1.82 million (2000 est.)

Israel:
  2.4 million (2000 est.)

Italy:
  23.4 million (2000)

Jamaica:
  1.13 million (1998)

Japan:
  67.7 million (December 2000)

Jersey:
  57,050 (1996)

Jordan:
  1.15 million

  note:  in addition, at least 300,000 workers are employed abroad
  (1997 est.)

Kazakhstan:
  8.8 million (1997)

Kenya:
  9.2 million (1998 est.)

Kiribati:
  7,870 economically active, not including subsistence
  farmers (1985 est.)

Korea, North:
  9.6 million

Korea, South:
  22 million (2000)

Kuwait:
  1.3 million (1998 est.)

  note:  68% of the population in the 15-64 age group is non-national
  (July 1998 est.)

Kyrgyzstan:
  1.7 million

Laos:
  1 million - 1.5 million

Latvia:
  1.4 million (2000 est.)

Lebanon:
  1.3 million (1999 est.)

  note:  in addition, there are as many as 1 million foreign workers
  (1997 est.)

Lesotho:
  700,000 economically active

Libya:
  1.5 million (2000 est.)

Liechtenstein:
  22,891 of which 13,847 are foreigners; 8,231 commute
  from Austria and Switzerland to work each day

Lithuania:
  2 million (2000 est.)

Luxembourg:
  248,000 (of whom 70,200 are foreign cross-border workers
  primarily from France, Belgium, and Germany) (2000)

Macau:
  283,450 (1999)

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  1 million (1999 est.)

Madagascar:
  7 million (1999)

Malawi:
  3.5 million

Malaysia:
  9.6 million (2000 est.)

Maldives:
  67,000 (1995)

Mali:
  NA

Malta:
  145,901 (1999)

Man, Isle of:
  36,610 (1998)

Marshall Islands:
  NA

Martinique:
  170,000 (1997)

Mauritania:
  750,000 (1999)

Mauritius:
  514,000 (1995)

Mayotte:
  NA

Mexico:
  39.8 million (2000)

Micronesia, Federated States of:
  NA

Moldova:
  1.7 million (1998)

Monaco:
  30,540 (January 1994)

Mongolia:
  1.3 million (1999)

Montserrat:
  4,521 (1992); note - recently lowered by flight of
  people from volcanic activity

Morocco:
  11 million (1997 est.)

Mozambique:
  7.4 million (1997 est.)

Namibia:
  500,000

Nepal:
  10 million (1996 est.)

  note:  severe lack of skilled labor

Netherlands:
  7.2 million (2000)

Netherlands Antilles:
  89,000

New Caledonia:
  79,395 (including 15, 018 unemployed, 1996)

New Zealand:
  1.88 million (2000)

Nicaragua:
  1.7 million (1999)

Niger:
  70,000 receive regular wages or salaries

Nigeria:
  66 million (1999 est.)

Niue:
  450 (1992 est.)

Norfolk Island:
  1,395 (1991 est.)

Northern Mariana Islands:
  6,006 total indigenous labor force; 2,699
  unemployed; 28,717 foreign workers (1995)

Norway:
  2.4 million (2000 est.)

Oman:
  850,000 (1997 est.)

Pakistan:
  40 million

  note:  extensive export of labor, mostly to the Middle East, and use
  of child labor (2000 est.)

Palau:
  8,300 (1999)

Panama:
  1.1 million (2000 est.)

  note:  shortage of skilled labor, but an oversupply of unskilled
  labor

Papua New Guinea:
  1.941 million

Paraguay:
  2 million (2000 est.)

Peru:
  7.6 million (1996 est.)

Philippines:
  48.1 million (2000 est.)

Pitcairn Islands:
  12 able-bodied men (1997)

Poland:
  17.2 million (1999 est.)

Portugal:
  5 million (1999)

Puerto Rico:
  1.3 million (2000)

Qatar:
  233,000 (1993 est.)

Reunion:
  261,000 (1995)

Romania:
  9.9 million (1999 est.)

Russia:
  66 million (1997)

Rwanda:
  3.6 million

Saint Helena:
  3,500 (1998 est.)

  note:  1,200 of whom are working offshore

Saint Kitts and Nevis:
  18,172 (June 1995)

Saint Lucia:
  43,800

Saint Pierre and Miquelon:
  3,000 (1997)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:
  67,000 (1984 est.)

Samoa:
  90,000 (2000 est.)

San Marino:
  18,500 (1999)

Sao Tome and Principe:
  NA

Saudi Arabia:
  7 million

  note:  35% of the population in the 15-64 age group is non-national
  (July 1998 est.)

Senegal:
  NA

Seychelles:
  30,900 (1996)

Sierra Leone:
  1.369 million (1981 est.)

  note:  only about 65,000 wage earners (1985)

Singapore:
  2.1 million (2000)

Slovakia:
  3 million (1999)

Slovenia:
  857,400

Solomon Islands:
  26,842

Somalia:
  3.7 million (very few are skilled laborers) (1993 est.)

South Africa:
  17 million economically active (2000)

Spain:
  17 million (2000)

Sri Lanka:
  6.6 million (1998)

Sudan:
  11 million (1996 est.)

Suriname:
  100,000

Svalbard:
  NA

Swaziland:
  NA

Sweden:
  4.4 million (2000 est.)

Switzerland:
  3.9 million (964,000 foreign workers, mostly Italian)
  (1998 est.)

Syria:
  4.7 million (1998 est.)

Tajikistan:
  1.9 million (1996)

Tanzania:
  13.495 million

Thailand:
  32.6 million (1997 est.)

Togo:
  1.74 million (1996)

Tokelau:
  NA

Tonga:
  34,000 (FY96/97)

Trinidad and Tobago:
  558,700 (1998)

Tunisia:
  2.65 million (2000 est.)

  note:  shortage of skilled labor

Turkey:
  23 million (2000 est.)

  note:  about 1.2 million Turks work abroad (1999)

Turkmenistan:
  2.34 million (1996)

Turks and Caicos Islands:
  4,848 (1990 est.)

Tuvalu:
  NA

Uganda:
  8.361 million (1993 est.)

Ukraine:
  22.8 million (yearend 1997)

United Arab Emirates:
  1.4 million (1998 est.)

  note:  75% of the population in the 15-64 age group is non-national
  (July 1998 est.)

United Kingdom:
  29.2 million (1999)

United States:
  140.9 million (includes unemployed) (2000)

Uruguay:
  1.5 million (1999 est.)

Uzbekistan:
  11.9 million (1998 est.)

Vanuatu:
  NA

Venezuela:
  9.9 million (1999)

Vietnam:
  38.2 million (1998 est.)

Virgin Islands:
  47,443 (1990 est.)

Wallis and Futuna:
  NA

West Bank:
  NA

Western Sahara:
  12,000

World:
  NA

Yemen:
  NA

Yugoslavia:
  1.6 million (1999 est.)

Zambia:
  3.4 million

Zimbabwe:
  5.5 million (2000 est.)

Taiwan:
  9.8 million (2000 est.)

======================================================================

@Labor force - by occupation



Afghanistan:
  agriculture 70%, industry 15%, services 15% (1990 est.)

Albania:
  agriculture 50%, industry and services 50%

Algeria:
  government 29%, agriculture 25%, construction and public
  works 15%, industry 11%, other 20% (1996 est.)

American Samoa:
  government 33%, tuna canneries 34%, other 33% (1990)

Andorra:
  agriculture 1%, industry 21%, services 78% (1998)

Angola:
  agriculture 85%, industry and services 15% (1997 est.)

Anguilla:
  commerce 36%, services 29%, construction 18%,
  transportation and utilities 10%, manufacturing 3%,
  agriculture/fishing/forestry/mining 4%

Antigua and Barbuda:
  commerce and services 82%, agriculture 11%,
  industry 7% (1983)

Argentina:
  agriculture NA%, industry NA%, services NA%

Armenia:
  agriculture 55%, services 25%, industry 20% (1999 est.)

Aruba:
  most employment is in wholesale and retail trade and repair,
  followed by hotels and restaurants; oil refining

Australia:
  services 73%, industry 22%, agriculture 5% (1997 est.)

Austria:
  services 68%, industry and crafts 29%, agriculture and
  forestry 3% (1999 est.)

Azerbaijan:
  agriculture and forestry 32%, industry 15%, services 53%
  (1997)

Bahamas, The:
  tourism 40%, other services 50%, industry 5%,
  agriculture 5% (1995 est.)

Bahrain:
  industry, commerce, and service 79%, government 20%,
  agriculture 1% (1997 est.)

Bangladesh:
  agriculture 63%, services 26%, industry 11% (FY95/96)

Barbados:
  services 75%, industry 15%, agriculture 10% (1996 est.)

Belarus:
  industry and construction NA%, agriculture and forestry
  NA%, services NA%

Belgium:
  services 73%, industry 25%, agriculture 2% (1999 est.)

Belize:
  agriculture 38%, industry 32%, services 30% (1994)

Bermuda:
  clerical 23%, services 22%, laborers 17%, professional and
  technical 17%, administrative and managerial 12%, sales 7%,
  agriculture and fishing 2% (1996)

Bhutan:
  agriculture 93%, services 5%, industry and commerce 2%

Bolivia:
  agriculture NA%, industry NA%, services NA%

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  agriculture NA%, industry NA%, services NA%

Botswana:
  100,000 public sector; 135,000 private sector, including
  14,300 who are employed in various mines in South Africa; most
  others engaged in cattle raising and subsistence agriculture (1995
  est.)

Brazil:
  services 53.2%, agriculture 23.1%, industry 23.7%

British Virgin Islands:
  agriculture NA%, industry NA%, services NA%

Brunei:
  government 48%, production of oil, natural gas, services,
  and construction 42%, agriculture, forestry, and fishing 10% (1999
  est.)

Bulgaria:
  agriculture 26%, industry 31%, services 43% (1998 est.)

Burkina Faso:
  agriculture 90% (2000 est.)

Burma:
  agriculture 65%, industry 10%, services 25% (1999 est.)

Burundi:
  NA

Cambodia:
  agriculture 80% (1999 est.)

Cameroon:
  agriculture 70%, industry and commerce 13%, other 17%

Canada:
  services 74%, manufacturing 15%, construction 5%,
  agriculture 3%, other 3% (2000)

Cayman Islands:
  agriculture 1.4%, industry 12.6%, services 86% (1995)

Chad:
  agriculture 85% (subsistence farming, herding, and fishing)

Chile:
  agriculture 14%, industry 27%, services 59% (1997 est.)

China:
  agriculture 50%, industry 24%, services 26% (1998)

Christmas Island:
  tourism 400 people, mining 100 people (1995)

Cocos (Keeling) Islands:
  the Cocos Islands Cooperative Society Ltd.
  employs construction workers, stevedores, and lighterage workers;
  tourism employs others

Colombia:
  services 46%, agriculture 30%, industry 24% (1990)

Comoros:
  agriculture 80%

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  agriculture 65%, industry 16%,
  services 19% (1991 est.)

Cook Islands:
  agriculture 29%, industry 15%, services 56% (1995)
  note - shortage of skilled labor

Costa Rica:
  agriculture 20%, industry 22%, services 58% (1999 est.)

Croatia:
  agriculture NA%, industry NA%, services NA%

Cuba:
  agriculture 25%, industry 24%, services 51% (1998)

Cyprus:
  Greek Cypriot area: services 73%, industry 22%, agriculture
  5% (2000); Turkish Cypriot area: services 56.4%, industry 22.8%,
  agriculture 20.8% (1998)

Czech Republic:
  agriculture 5%, industry 40%, services 55% (2000
  est.)

Denmark:
  services 79%, industry 17%, agriculture 4% (2000 est.)

Djibouti:
  agriculture 75%, industry 11%, services 14% (1991 est.)

Dominica:
  agriculture 40%, industry and commerce 32%, services 28%

Dominican Republic:
  services and government 58.7%, industry 24.3%,
  agriculture 17% (1998 est.)

Ecuador:
  agriculture 30%, industry 25%, services 45% (1999 est.)

Egypt:
  agriculture 29%, services 49%, industry 22% (FY99)

El Salvador:
  agriculture 30%, industry 15%, services 55% (1999 est.)

Eritrea:
  agriculture 80%, industry and services 20%

Estonia:
  industry 20%, agriculture 11%, services 69% (1999 est.)

Ethiopia:
  agriculture and animal husbandry 80%, government and
  services 12%, industry and construction 8% (1985)

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas):
  agriculture 95% (mostly
  sheepherding and fishing)

Faroe Islands:
  fishing, fish processing, and manufacturing 33%,
  construction and private services 33%, public services 34%

Fiji:
  subsistence agriculture 67%, wage earners 18%, salary earners
  15% (1987)

Finland:
  public services 32%, industry 22%, commerce 14%, finance,
  insurance, and business services 10%, agriculture and forestry 8%,
  transport and communications 8%, construction 6%

France:
  services 71%, industry 25%, agriculture 4% (1997)

French Guiana:
  services, government, and commerce 60.6%, industry
  21.2%, agriculture 18.2% (1980)

French Polynesia:
  agriculture 13%, industry 19%, services 68% (1997)

Gabon:
  agriculture 60%, services and government 25%, industry and
  commerce 15%

Gambia, The:
  agriculture 75%, industry, commerce, and services 19%,
  government 6%

Gaza Strip:
  services 66%, industry 21%, agriculture 13% (1996)

Georgia:
  industry 20%, agriculture 40%, services 40% (1999 est.)

Germany:
  industry 33.4%, agriculture 2.8%, services 63.8% (1999)

Ghana:
  agriculture 60%, industry 15%, services 25% (1999 est.)

Gibraltar:
  services 60%, industry 40%, agriculture NEGL%

Greece:
  industry 21%, agriculture 20%, services 59% (2000 est.)

Grenada:
  services 62%, agriculture 24%, industry 14% (1999 est.)

Guadeloupe:
  NA

Guam:
  federal and territorial government 26%, private 74% (trade
  24%, other services 40%, industry 10%) (2000 est.)

Guatemala:
  agriculture 50%, industry 15%, services 35% (1999 est.)

Guinea:
  agriculture 80%, industry and services 20% (2000 est.)

Guinea-Bissau:
  agriculture 78%

Guyana:
  agriculture NA%, industry NA%, services NA%

Haiti:
  agriculture 66%, services 25%, industry 9%

Holy See (Vatican City):
  agriculture NA%, industry NA%, services
  NA%; note - dignitaries, priests, nuns, guards, and 3,000 lay
  workers live outside the Vatican

Honduras:
  agriculture 29%, industry 21%, services 50% (1998 est.)

Hong Kong:
  wholesale and retail trade, restaurants, and hotels
  31.5%, community and social services 24%, financing, insurance, and
  real estate 14.5%, transport and communications 11.6%, manufacturing
  7.7%, construction 2.6% (October 1999)

Hungary:
  services 65%, industry 27%, agriculture 8% (1996)

Iceland:
  agriculture 5.1%, fishing and fish processing 11.8%,
  manufacturing 12.9%, construction 10.7%, other services 59.5% (1999)

India:
  agriculture 67%, services 18%, industry 15% (1995 est.)

Indonesia:
  agriculture 45%, industry 16%, services 39% (1999 est.)

Iran:
  agriculture 33%, industry 25%, services 42% (1999 est.)

Iraq:
  agriculture NA%, industry NA%, services NA%

Ireland:
  services 64%, industry 28%, agriculture 8% (2000 est.)

Israel:
  public services 31.2%, manufacturing 20.2%, finance and
  business 13.1%, commerce 12.8%, construction 7.5%, personal and
  other services 6.4%, transport, storage, and communications 6.2%,
  agriculture, forestry, and fishing 2.6% (1996)

Italy:
  services 61.9%, industry 32.6%, agriculture 5.5% (1999)

Jamaica:
  services 60%, agriculture 21%, industry 19% (1998)

Japan:
  services 65%, industry 30%, agriculture 5%

Jordan:
  industry 11.4%, commerce, restaurants, and hotels 10.5%,
  construction 10%, transport and communications 8.7%, agriculture
  7.4%, other services 52% (1992)

Kazakhstan:
  industry 27%, agriculture 23%, services 50% (1996)

Kenya:
  agriculture 75%-80%

Korea, North:
  agricultural 36%, nonagricultural 64%

Korea, South:
  services 68%, industry 20%, agriculture 12% (1999)

Kuwait:
  agriculture NA%, industry NA%, services NA%

Kyrgyzstan:
  agriculture 55%, industry 15%, services 30% (1999 est.)

Laos:
  agriculture 80% (1997 est.)

Latvia:
  agriculture 10%, industry 25%, services 65% (2000 est.)

Lebanon:
  services NA%, industry NA%, agriculture NA%

Lesotho:
  86% of resident population engaged in subsistence
  agriculture; roughly 35% of the active male wage earners work in
  South Africa

Liberia:
  agriculture 70%, industry 8%, services 22% (1999 est.)

Libya:
  services and government 54%, industry 29%, agriculture 17%
  (1997 est.)

Liechtenstein:
  industry, trade, and building 45%, services 53%,
  agriculture, fishing, forestry, and horticulture 2% (1997 est.)

Lithuania:
  industry 30%, agriculture 20%, services 50% (1997 est.)

Luxembourg:
  services 83.2%, industry 14.3%, agriculture 2.5% (1998
  est.)

Macau:
  restaurants and hotels 26%, manufacturing 22%, other services
  52% (2000 est.)

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  agriculture NA%,
  industry NA%, services NA%

Malawi:
  agriculture 86% (1997 est.)

Malaysia:
  local trade and tourism 28%, manufacturing 27%,
  agriculture, forestry, and fisheries 16%, services 10%, government
  10%, construction 9% (2000 est.)

Maldives:
  agriculture 22%, industry 18%, services 60% (1995)

Mali:
  agriculture and fishing 80% (1998 est.)

Malta:
  industry 24%, services 71%, agriculture 5% (1999 est.)

Man, Isle of:
  agriculture, forestry and fishing 3%, manufacturing
  11%, construction 10%, transport and communication 8%, wholesale and
  retail distribution 11%, professional and scientific services 18%,
  public administration 6%, banking and finance 18%, tourism 2%,
  entertainment and catering 3%, miscellaneous services 10%

Marshall Islands:
  agriculture NA%, industry NA%, services NA%

Martinique:
  agriculture 10%, industry 17%, services 73% (1997)

Mauritania:
  agriculture 47%, services 39%, industry 14%

Mauritius:
  construction and industry 36%, services 24%, agriculture
  and fishing 14%, trade, restaurants, hotels 16%, transportation and
  communication 7%, finance 3% (1995)

Mexico:
  agriculture 20%, industry 24%, services 56% (1998)

Micronesia, Federated States of:
  two-thirds are government employees

Moldova:
  agriculture 40%, industry 14%, other 46% (1998)

Mongolia:
  primarily herding/agricultural

Montserrat:
  agriculture NA%, industry NA%, services NA%

Morocco:
  agriculture 50%, services 35%, industry 15% (1999 est.)

Mozambique:
  agriculture 81%, industry 6%, services 13% (1997 est.)

Namibia:
  agriculture 47%, industry 20%, services 33% (1999 est.)

Nauru:
  employed in mining phosphates, public administration,
  education, and transportation

Nepal:
  agriculture 81%, services 16%, industry 3%

Netherlands:
  services 73%, industry 23%, agriculture 4% (1998 est.)

Netherlands Antilles:
  agriculture 1%, industry 13%, services 86%
  (1994 est.)

New Caledonia:
  agriculture 7%, industry 23%, services 70% (1999 est.)

New Zealand:
  services 65%, industry 25%, agriculture 10% (1995)

Nicaragua:
  services 43%, agriculture 42%, industry 15% (1999 est.)

Niger:
  agriculture 90%, industry and commerce 6%, government 4%

Nigeria:
  agriculture 70%, industry 10%, services 20% (1999 est.)

Niue:
  most work on family plantations; paid work exists only in
  government service, small industry, and the Niue Development Board

Norfolk Island:
  tourism NA%, subsistence agriculture NA%

Northern Mariana Islands:
  NA

Norway:
  services 74%, industry 22%, agriculture, forestry, and
  fishing 4% (1995)

Oman:
  agriculture NA%, industry NA%, services NA%

Pakistan:
  agriculture 44%, industry 17%, services 39% (1999 est.)

Palau:
  agriculture NA%, industry NA%, services NA%

Panama:
  agriculture 20.8%, industry 18%, services 61.2% (1995 est.)

Papua New Guinea:
  agriculture 85%, industry NA%, services NA%

Paraguay:
  agriculture 45%

Peru:
  agriculture, mining and quarrying, manufacturing,
  construction, transport, services

Philippines:
  agriculture 39.8%, government and social services
  19.4%, services 17.7%, manufacturing 9.8%, construction 5.8%, other
  7.5% (1998 est.)

Pitcairn Islands:
  no business community in the usual sense; some
  public works; subsistence farming and fishing

Poland:
  industry 22.1%, agriculture 27.5%, services 50.4% (1999)

Portugal:
  services 60%, industry 30%, agriculture 10% (1999 est.)

Puerto Rico:
  agriculture 3%, industry 20%, services 77% (2000 est.)

Reunion:
  agriculture 8%, industry 19%, services 73% (1990)

Romania:
  agriculture 40%, industry 25%, services 35% (1998)

Russia:
  agriculture 15%, industry 30%, services 55% (1999 est.)

Rwanda:
  agriculture 90%

Saint Helena:
  agriculture and fishing 6%, industry (mainly
  construction) 48%, services 46% (1987 est.)

Saint Kitts and Nevis:
  NA

Saint Lucia:
  agriculture 43.4%, services 38.9%, industry and
  commerce 17.7% (1983 est.)

Saint Pierre and Miquelon:
  fishing 18%, industry (mainly
  fish-processing) 41%, services 41% (1996 est.)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:
  agriculture 26%, industry 17%,
  services 57% (1980 est.)

Samoa:
  agriculture 65%, services 30%, industry 5% (1995 est.)

San Marino:
  services 60%, industry 38%, agriculture 2% (1998 est.)

Sao Tome and Principe:
  population mainly engaged in subsistence
  agriculture and fishing

  note:  shortages of skilled workers

Saudi Arabia:
  agriculture 12%, industry 25%, services 63% (1999 est.)

Senegal:
  agriculture 60%

Seychelles:
  industry 19%, services 71%, agriculture 10% (1989)

Sierra Leone:
  agriculture NA%, industry NA%, services NA%

Singapore:
  financial, business, and other services 35%,
  manufacturing 21%, construction 13%, transportation and
  communication 9%

Slovakia:
  industry 29.3%, agriculture 8.9%, construction 8%,
  transport and communication 8.2%, services 45.6% (1994)

Slovenia:
  agriculture NA%, industry NA%, services NA%

Solomon Islands:
  agriculture NA%, industry NA%, services NA%

Somalia:
  agriculture (mostly pastoral nomadism) 71%, industry and
  services 29%

South Africa:
  agriculture 30%, industry 25%, services 45% (1999 est.)

Spain:
  services 64%, manufacturing, mining, and construction 28%,
  agriculture 8% (1997 est.)

Sri Lanka:
  services 45%, agriculture 38%, industry 17% (1998 est.)

Sudan:
  agriculture 80%, industry and commerce 10%, government 6%,
  unemployed 4% (1996 est.)

Suriname:
  agriculture NA%, industry NA%, services NA%

Swaziland:
  private sector 70%, public sector 30%

Sweden:
  agriculture 2%, industry 24%, services 74% (2000 est.)

Switzerland:
  services 69.1%, industry 26.3%, agriculture 4.6% (1998
  est.)

Syria:
  agriculture 40%, industry 20%, services 40% (1996 est.)

Tajikistan:
  agriculture 50%, industry 20%, services 30% (1997 est.)

Tanzania:
  agriculture 80%, industry and commerce 20% (2000 est.)

Thailand:
  agriculture 54%, industry 15%, services 31% (1996 est.)

Togo:
  agriculture 65%, industry 5%, services 30% (1998 est.)

Tonga:
  agriculture 65% (1997 est.)

Trinidad and Tobago:
  construction and utilities 12.4%,
  manufacturing, mining, and quarrying 14%, agriculture 9.5%, services
  64.1% (1997 est.)

Tunisia:
  services 55%, industry 23%, agriculture 22% (1995 est.)

Turkey:
  agriculture 38%, services 38%, industry 24% (2000)

Turkmenistan:
  agriculture 44%, industry 19%, services 37% (1996)

Turks and Caicos Islands:
  about 33% in government and 20% in
  agriculture and fishing; significant numbers in tourism, financial,
  and other services (1997 est.)

Tuvalu:
  people make a living mainly through exploitation of the sea,
  reefs, and atolls and from wages sent home by those working abroad
  (mostly workers in the phosphate industry and sailors)

Uganda:
  agriculture 82%, industry 5%, services 13% (1999 est.)

Ukraine:
  industry 32%, agriculture 24%, services 44% (1996)

United Arab Emirates:
  services 60%, industry 32%, agriculture 8%
  (1996 est.)

United Kingdom:
  agriculture 1%, industry 19%, services 80% (1996
  est.)

United States:
  managerial and professional 30.2%, technical, sales
  and administrative support 29.2%, services 13.5%, manufacturing,
  mining, transportation, and crafts 24.6%, farming, forestry, and
  fishing 2.5% (2000)

  note:  figures exclude the unemployed

Uruguay:
  agriculture NA%, industry NA%, services NA%

Uzbekistan:
  agriculture 44%, industry 20%, services 36% (1995)

Vanuatu:
  agriculture 65%, services 32%, industry 3% (1995 est.)

Venezuela:
  services 64%, industry 23%, agriculture 13% (1997 est.)

Vietnam:
  agriculture 67%, industry and services 33% (1997 est.)

Virgin Islands:
  agriculture 1%, industry 20%, services 79% (1990
  est.)

Wallis and Futuna:
  agriculture, livestock, and fishing 80%,
  government 4% (est.)

West Bank:
  services 66%, industry 21%, agriculture 13% (1996)

Western Sahara:
  animal husbandry and subsistence farming 50%

World:
  agricultue NA%, industry NA%, services NA%

Yemen:
  most people are employed in agriculture and herding;
  services, construction, industry, and commerce account for less than
  one-fourth of the labor force

Yugoslavia:
  agriculture NA%, industry NA%, services NA%

Zambia:
  agriculture 85%, industry 6%, services 9%

Zimbabwe:
  agriculture 66%, services 24%, industry 10% (1996 est.)

Taiwan:
  services 55%, industry 37%, agriculture 8% (1999 est.)

======================================================================

@Land boundaries



Afghanistan:
  total:  5,529 km

  border countries:  China 76 km, Iran 936 km, Pakistan 2,430 km,
  Tajikistan 1,206 km, Turkmenistan 744 km, Uzbekistan 137 km

Albania:
  total:  720 km

  border countries:  Greece 282 km, The Former Yugoslav Republic of
  Macedonia 151 km, Yugoslavia 287 km

Algeria:
  total:  6,343 km

  border countries:  Libya 982 km, Mali 1,376 km, Mauritania 463 km,
  Morocco 1,559 km, Niger 956 km, Tunisia 965 km, Western Sahara 42 km

American Samoa:
  0 km

Andorra:
  total:  120.3 km

  border countries:  France 56.6 km, Spain 63.7 km

Angola:
  total:  5,198 km

  border countries:  Democratic Republic of the Congo 2,511 km (of
  which 220 km is the boundary of discontiguous Cabinda Province),
  Republic of the Congo 201 km, Namibia 1,376 km, Zambia 1,110 km

Anguilla:
  0 km

Antarctica:
  0 km

  note:  see entry on International disputes

Antigua and Barbuda:
  0 km

Argentina:
  total:  9,665 km

  border countries:  Bolivia 832 km, Brazil 1,224 km, Chile 5,150 km,
  Paraguay 1,880 km, Uruguay 579 km

Armenia:
  total:  1,254 km

  border countries:  Azerbaijan-proper 566 km, Azerbaijan-Naxcivan
  exclave 221 km, Georgia 164 km, Iran 35 km, Turkey 268 km

Aruba:
  0 km

Ashmore and Cartier Islands:
  0 km

Australia:
  0 km

Austria:
  total:  2,562 km

  border countries:  Czech Republic 362 km, Germany 784 km, Hungary
  366 km, Italy 430 km, Liechtenstein 35 km, Slovakia 91 km, Slovenia
  330 km, Switzerland 164 km

Azerbaijan:
  total:  2,013 km

  border countries:  Armenia (with Azerbaijan-proper) 566 km, Armenia
  (with Azerbaijan-Naxcivan exclave) 221 km, Georgia 322 km, Iran
  (with Azerbaijan-proper) 432 km, Iran (with Azerbaijan-Naxcivan
  exclave) 179 km, Russia 284 km, Turkey 9 km

Bahamas, The:
  0 km

Bahrain:
  0 km

Baker Island:
  0 km

Bangladesh:
  total:  4,246 km

  border countries:  Burma 193 km, India 4,053 km

Barbados:
  0 km

Bassas da India:
  0 km

Belarus:
  total:  3,098 km

  border countries:  Latvia 141 km, Lithuania 502 km, Poland 605 km,
  Russia 959 km, Ukraine 891 km

Belgium:
  total:  1,385 km

  border countries:  France 620 km, Germany 167 km, Luxembourg 148 km,
  Netherlands 450 km

Belize:
  total:  516 km

  border countries:  Guatemala 266 km, Mexico 250 km

Benin:
  total:  1,989 km

  border countries:  Burkina Faso 306 km, Niger 266 km, Nigeria 773
  km, Togo 644 km

Bermuda:
  0 km

Bhutan:
  total:  1,075 km

  border countries:  China 470 km, India 605 km

Bolivia:
  total:  6,743 km

  border countries:  Argentina 832 km, Brazil 3,400 km, Chile 861 km,
  Paraguay 750 km, Peru 900 km

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  total:  1,459 km

  border countries:  Croatia 932 km, Yugoslavia 527 km

Botswana:
  total:  4,013 km

  border countries:  Namibia 1,360 km, South Africa 1,840 km, Zimbabwe
  813 km

Bouvet Island:
  0 km

Brazil:
  total:  14,691 km

  border countries:  Argentina 1,224 km, Bolivia 3,400 km, Colombia
  1,643 km, French Guiana 673 km, Guyana 1,119 km, Paraguay 1,290 km,
  Peru 1,560 km, Suriname 597 km, Uruguay 985 km, Venezuela 2,200 km

British Indian Ocean Territory:
  0 km

British Virgin Islands:
  0 km

Brunei:
  total:  381 km

  border countries:  Malaysia 381 km

Bulgaria:
  total:  1,808 km

  border countries:  Greece 494 km, The Former Yugoslav Republic of
  Macedonia 148 km, Romania 608 km, Yugoslavia 318 km, Turkey 240 km

Burkina Faso:
  total:  3,192 km

  border countries:  Benin 306 km, Cote d'Ivoire 584 km, Ghana 548 km,
  Mali 1,000 km, Niger 628 km, Togo 126 km

Burma:
  total:  5,876 km

  border countries:  Bangladesh 193 km, China 2,185 km, India 1,463
  km, Laos 235 km, Thailand 1,800 km

Burundi:
  total:  974 km

  border countries:  Democratic Republic of the Congo 233 km, Rwanda
  290 km, Tanzania 451 km

Cambodia:
  total:  2,572 km

  border countries:  Laos 541 km, Thailand 803 km, Vietnam 1,228 km

Cameroon:
  total:  4,591 km

  border countries:  Central African Republic 797 km, Chad 1,094 km,
  Republic of the Congo 523 km, Equatorial Guinea 189 km, Gabon 298
  km, Nigeria 1,690 km

Canada:
  total:  8,893 km

  border countries:  US 8,893 km (includes 2,477 km with Alaska)

Cape Verde:
  0 km

Cayman Islands:
  0 km

Central African Republic:
  total:  5,203 km

  border countries:  Cameroon 797 km, Chad 1,197 km, Democratic
  Republic of the Congo 1,577 km, Republic of the Congo 467 km, Sudan
  1,165 km

Chad:
  total:  5,968 km

  border countries:  Cameroon 1,094 km, Central African Republic 1,197
  km, Libya 1,055 km, Niger 1,175 km, Nigeria 87 km, Sudan 1,360 km

Chile:
  total:  6,171 km

  border countries:  Argentina 5,150 km, Bolivia 861 km, Peru 160 km

China:
  total:  22,147.24 km

  border countries:  Afghanistan 76 km, Bhutan 470 km, Burma 2,185 km,
  Hong Kong 30 km, India 3,380 km, Kazakhstan 1,533 km, North Korea
  1,416 km, Kyrgyzstan 858 km, Laos 423 km, Macau 0.34 km, Mongolia
  4,676.9 km, Nepal 1,236 km, Pakistan 523 km, Russia (northeast)
  3,605 km, Russia (northwest) 40 km, Tajikistan 414 km, Vietnam 1,281
  km

Christmas Island:
  0 km

Clipperton Island:
  0 km

Cocos (Keeling) Islands:
  0 km

Colombia:
  total:  6,004 km

  border countries:  Brazil 1,643 km, Ecuador 590 km, Panama 225 km,
  Peru 1,496 km (est.), Venezuela 2,050 km

Comoros:
  0 km

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  total:  10,744 km

  border countries:  Angola 2,511 km, Burundi 233 km, Central African
  Republic 1,577 km, Republic of the Congo 2,410 km, Rwanda 217 km,
  Sudan 628 km, Tanzania 473 km, Uganda 765 km, Zambia 1,930 km

Congo, Republic of the:
  total:  5,504 km

  border countries:  Angola 201 km, Cameroon 523 km, Central African
  Republic 467 km, Democratic Republic of the Congo 2,410 km, Gabon
  1,903 km

Cook Islands:
  0 km

Coral Sea Islands:
  0 km

Costa Rica:
  total:  639 km

  border countries:  Nicaragua 309 km, Panama 330 km

Cote d'Ivoire:
  total:  3,110 km

  border countries:  Burkina Faso 584 km, Ghana 668 km, Guinea 610 km,
  Liberia 716 km, Mali 532 km

Croatia:
  total:  2,028 km

  border countries:  Bosnia and Herzegovina 932 km, Hungary 329 km,
  Yugoslavia 266 km, Slovenia 501 km

Cuba:
  total:  29 km

  border countries:  US Naval Base at Guantanamo Bay 29 km

  note:  Guantanamo Naval Base is leased by the US and thus remains
  part of Cuba

Cyprus:
  0 km

Czech Republic:
  total:  1,881 km

  border countries:  Austria 362 km, Germany 646 km, Poland 658 km,
  Slovakia 215 km

Denmark:
  total:  68 km

  border countries:  Germany 68 km

Djibouti:
  total:  508 km

  border countries:  Eritrea 113 km, Ethiopia 337 km, Somalia 58 km

Dominica:
  0 km

Dominican Republic:
  total:  275 km

  border countries:  Haiti 275 km

Ecuador:
  total:  2,010 km

  border countries:  Colombia 590 km, Peru 1,420 km

Egypt:
  total:  2,689 km

  border countries:  Gaza Strip 11 km, Israel 255 km, Libya 1,150 km,
  Sudan 1,273 km

El Salvador:
  total:  545 km

  border countries:  Guatemala 203 km, Honduras 342 km

Equatorial Guinea:
  total:  539 km

  border countries:  Cameroon 189 km, Gabon 350 km

Eritrea:
  total:  1,630 km

  border countries:  Djibouti 113 km, Ethiopia 912 km, Sudan 605 km

Estonia:
  total:  633 km

  border countries:  Latvia 339 km, Russia 294 km

Ethiopia:
  total:  5,311 km

  border countries:  Djibouti 337 km, Eritrea 912 km, Kenya 830 km,
  Somalia 1,626 km, Sudan 1,606 km

Europa Island:
  0 km

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas):
  0 km

Faroe Islands:
  0 km

Fiji:
  0 km

Finland:
  total:  2,628 km

  border countries:  Norway 729 km, Sweden 586 km, Russia 1,313 km

France:
  total:  2,889 km

  border countries:  Andorra 56.6 km, Belgium 620 km, Germany 451 km,
  Italy 488 km, Luxembourg 73 km, Monaco 4.4 km, Spain 623 km,
  Switzerland 573 km

French Guiana:
  total:  1,183 km

  border countries:  Brazil 673 km, Suriname 510 km

French Polynesia:
  0 km

French Southern and Antarctic Lands:
  0 km

Gabon:
  total:  2,551 km

  border countries:  Cameroon 298 km, Republic of the Congo 1,903 km,
  Equatorial Guinea 350 km

Gambia, The:
  total:  740 km

  border countries:  Senegal 740 km

Gaza Strip:
  total:  62 km

  border countries:  Egypt 11 km, Israel 51 km

Georgia:
  total:  1,461 km

  border countries:  Armenia 164 km, Azerbaijan 322 km, Russia 723 km,
  Turkey 252 km

Germany:
  total:  3,618 km

  border countries:  Austria 784 km, Belgium 167 km, Czech Republic
  646 km, Denmark 68 km, France 451 km, Luxembourg 135 km, Netherlands
  577 km, Poland 456 km, Switzerland 334 km

Ghana:
  total:  2,093 km

  border countries:  Burkina Faso 548 km, Cote d'Ivoire 668 km, Togo
  877 km

Gibraltar:
  total:  1.2 km

  border countries:  Spain 1.2 km

Glorioso Islands:
  0 km

Greece:
  total:  1,210 km

  border countries:  Albania 282 km, Bulgaria 494 km, Turkey 206 km,
  The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia 228 km

Greenland:
  0 km

Grenada:
  0 km

Guadeloupe:
  total:  10.2 km

  border countries:  Netherlands Antilles (Sint Maarten) 10.2 km

Guam:
  0 km

Guatemala:
  total:  1,687 km

  border countries:  Belize 266 km, El Salvador 203 km, Honduras 256
  km, Mexico 962 km

Guernsey:
  0 km

Guinea:
  total:  3,399 km

  border countries:  Cote d'Ivoire 610 km, Guinea-Bissau 386 km,
  Liberia 563 km, Mali 858 km, Senegal 330 km, Sierra Leone 652 km

Guinea-Bissau:
  total:  724 km

  border countries:  Guinea 386 km, Senegal 338 km

Guyana:
  total:  2,462 km

  border countries:  Brazil 1,119 km, Suriname 600 km, Venezuela 743 km

Haiti:
  total:  275 km

  border countries:  Dominican Republic 275 km

Heard Island and McDonald Islands:
  0 km

Holy See (Vatican City):
  total:  3.2 km

  border countries:  Italy 3.2 km

Honduras:
  total:  1,520 km

  border countries:  Guatemala 256 km, El Salvador 342 km, Nicaragua
  922 km

Hong Kong:
  total:  30 km

  border countries:  China 30 km

Howland Island:
  0 km

Hungary:
  total:  2,009 km

  border countries:  Austria 366 km, Croatia 329 km, Romania 443 km,
  Yugoslavia 151 km, Slovakia 515 km, Slovenia 102 km, Ukraine 103 km

Iceland:
  0 km

India:
  total:  14,103 km

  border countries:  Bangladesh 4,053 km, Bhutan 605 km, Burma 1,463
  km, China 3,380 km, Nepal 1,690 km, Pakistan 2,912 km

Indonesia:
  total:  2,602 km

  border countries:  Malaysia 1,782 km, Papua New Guinea 820 km

Iran:
  total:  5,440 km

  border countries:  Afghanistan 936 km, Armenia 35 km,
  Azerbaijan-proper 432 km, Azerbaijan-Naxcivan exclave 179 km, Iraq
  1,458 km, Pakistan 909 km, Turkey 499 km, Turkmenistan 992 km

Iraq:
  total:  3,631 km

  border countries:  Iran 1,458 km, Jordan 181 km, Kuwait 242 km,
  Saudi Arabia 814 km, Syria 605 km, Turkey 331 km

Ireland:
  total:  360 km

  border countries:  UK 360 km

Israel:
  total:  1,006 km

  border countries:  Egypt 255 km, Gaza Strip 51 km, Jordan 238 km,
  Lebanon 79 km, Syria 76 km, West Bank 307 km

Italy:
  total:  1,932.2 km

  border countries:  Austria 430 km, France 488 km, Holy See (Vatican
  City) 3.2 km, San Marino 39 km, Slovenia 232 km, Switzerland 740 km

Jamaica:
  0 km

Jan Mayen:
  0 km

Japan:
  0 km

Jarvis Island:
  0 km

Jersey:
  0 km

Johnston Atoll:
  0 km

Jordan:
  total:  1,619 km

  border countries:  Iraq 181 km, Israel 238 km, Saudi Arabia 728 km,
  Syria 375 km, West Bank 97 km

Juan de Nova Island:
  0 km

Kazakhstan:
  total:  12,012 km

  border countries:  China 1,533 km, Kyrgyzstan 1,051 km, Russia 6,846
  km, Turkmenistan 379 km, Uzbekistan 2,203 km

Kenya:
  total:  3,446 km

  border countries:  Ethiopia 830 km, Somalia 682 km, Sudan 232 km,
  Tanzania 769 km, Uganda 933 km

Kingman Reef:
  0 km

Kiribati:
  0 km

Korea, North:
  total:  1,673 km

  border countries:  China 1,416 km, South Korea 238 km, Russia 19 km

Korea, South:
  total:  238 km

  border countries:  North Korea 238 km

Kuwait:
  total:  464 km

  border countries:  Iraq 242 km, Saudi Arabia 222 km

Kyrgyzstan:
  total:  3,878 km

  border countries:  China 858 km, Kazakhstan 1,051 km, Tajikistan 870
  km, Uzbekistan 1,099 km

Laos:
  total:  5,083 km

  border countries:  Burma 235 km, Cambodia 541 km, China 423 km,
  Thailand 1,754 km, Vietnam 2,130 km

Latvia:
  total:  1,150 km

  border countries:  Belarus 141 km, Estonia 339 km, Lithuania 453 km,
  Russia 217 km

Lebanon:
  total:  454 km

  border countries:  Israel 79 km, Syria 375 km

Lesotho:
  total:  909 km

  border countries:  South Africa 909 km

Liberia:
  total:  1,585 km

  border countries:  Guinea 563 km, Cote d'Ivoire 716 km, Sierra Leone
  306 km

Libya:
  total:  4,383 km

  border countries:  Algeria 982 km, Chad 1,055 km, Egypt 1,150 km,
  Niger 354 km, Sudan 383 km, Tunisia 459 km

Liechtenstein:
  total:  76 km

  border countries:  Austria 35 km, Switzerland 41 km

Lithuania:
  total:  1,273 km

  border countries:  Belarus 502 km, Latvia 453 km, Poland 91 km,
  Russia (Kaliningrad) 227 km

Luxembourg:
  total:  356 km

  border countries:  Belgium 148 km, France 73 km, Germany 135 km

Macau:
  total:  0.34 km

  border countries:  China 0.34 km

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  total:  748 km

  border countries:  Albania 151 km, Bulgaria 148 km, Greece 228 km,
  Yugoslavia 221 km

Madagascar:
  0 km

Malawi:
  total:  2,881 km

  border countries:  Mozambique 1,569 km, Tanzania 475 km, Zambia 837
  km

Malaysia:
  total:  2,669 km

  border countries:  Brunei 381 km, Indonesia 1,782 km, Thailand 506 km

Maldives:
  0 km

Mali:
  total:  7,243 km

  border countries:  Algeria 1,376 km, Burkina Faso 1,000 km, Guinea
  858 km, Cote d'Ivoire 532 km, Mauritania 2,237 km, Niger 821 km,
  Senegal 419 km

Malta:
  0 km

Man, Isle of:
  0 km

Marshall Islands:
  0 km

Martinique:
  0 km

Mauritania:
  total:  5,074 km

  border countries:  Algeria 463 km, Mali 2,237 km, Senegal 813 km,
  Western Sahara 1,561 km

Mauritius:
  0 km

Mayotte:
  0 km

Mexico:
  total:  4,538 km

  border countries:  Belize 250 km, Guatemala 962 km, US 3,326 km

Micronesia, Federated States of:
  0 km

Midway Islands:
  0 km

Moldova:
  total:  1,389 km

  border countries:  Romania 450 km, Ukraine 939 km

Monaco:
  total:  4.4 km

  border countries:  France 4.4 km

Mongolia:
  total:  8,161.9 km

  border countries:  China 4,676.9 km, Russia 3,485 km

Montserrat:
  0 km

Morocco:
  total:  2,017.9 km

  border countries:  Algeria 1,559 km, Western Sahara 443 km, Spain
  (Ceuta) 6.3 km, Spain (Melilla) 9.6 km

Mozambique:
  total:  4,571 km

  border countries:  Malawi 1,569 km, South Africa 491 km, Swaziland
  105 km, Tanzania 756 km, Zambia 419 km, Zimbabwe 1,231 km

Namibia:
  total:  3,824 km

  border countries:  Angola 1,376 km, Botswana 1,360 km, South Africa
  855 km, Zambia 233 km

Nauru:
  0 km

Navassa Island:
  0 km

Nepal:
  total:  2,926 km

  border countries:  China 1,236 km, India 1,690 km

Netherlands:
  total:  1,027 km

  border countries:  Belgium 450 km, Germany 577 km

Netherlands Antilles:
  total:  10.2 km

  border countries:  Guadeloupe (Saint Martin) 10.2 km

New Caledonia:
  0 km

New Zealand:
  0 km

Nicaragua:
  total:  1,231 km

  border countries:  Costa Rica 309 km, Honduras 922 km

Niger:
  total:  5,697 km

  border countries:  Algeria 956 km, Benin 266 km, Burkina Faso 628
  km, Chad 1,175 km, Libya 354 km, Mali 821 km, Nigeria 1,497 km

Nigeria:
  total:  4,047 km

  border countries:  Benin 773 km, Cameroon 1,690 km, Chad 87 km,
  Niger 1,497 km

Niue:
  0 km

Norfolk Island:
  0 km

Northern Mariana Islands:
  0 km

Norway:
  total:  2,515 km

  border countries:  Finland 729 km, Sweden 1,619 km, Russia 167 km

Oman:
  total:  1,374 km

  border countries:  Saudi Arabia 676 km, UAE 410 km, Yemen 288 km

Pakistan:
  total:  6,774 km

  border countries:  Afghanistan 2,430 km, China 523 km, India 2,912
  km, Iran 909 km

Palau:
  0 km

Palmyra Atoll:
  0 km

Panama:
  total:  555 km

  border countries:  Colombia 225 km, Costa Rica 330 km

Papua New Guinea:
  total:  820 km

  border countries:  Indonesia 820 km

Paracel Islands:
  0 km

Paraguay:
  total:  3,920 km

  border countries:  Argentina 1,880 km, Bolivia 750 km, Brazil 1,290
  km

Peru:
  total:  5,536 km

  border countries:  Bolivia 900 km, Brazil 1,560 km, Chile 160 km,
  Colombia 1,496 km (est.), Ecuador 1,420 km

Philippines:
  0 km

Pitcairn Islands:
  0 km

Poland:
  total:  2,888 km

  border countries:  Belarus 605 km, Czech Republic 658 km, Germany
  456 km, Lithuania 91 km, Russia (Kaliningrad Oblast) 206 km,
  Slovakia 444 km, Ukraine 428 km

Portugal:
  total:  1,214 km

  border countries:  Spain 1,214 km

Puerto Rico:
  0 km

Qatar:
  total:  60 km

  border countries:  Saudi Arabia 60 km

Reunion:
  0 km

Romania:
  total:  2,508 km

  border countries:  Bulgaria 608 km, Hungary 443 km, Moldova 450 km,
  Yugoslavia 476 km, Ukraine (north) 362 km, Ukraine (east) 169 km

Russia:
  total:  19,961 km

  border countries:  Azerbaijan 284 km, Belarus 959 km, China
  (southeast) 3,605 km, China (south) 40 km, Estonia 294 km, Finland
  1,313 km, Georgia 723 km, Kazakhstan 6,846 km, North Korea 19 km,
  Latvia 217 km, Lithuania (Kaliningrad Oblast) 227 km, Mongolia 3,485
  km, Norway 167 km, Poland (Kaliningrad Oblast) 206 km, Ukraine 1,576
  km

Rwanda:
  total:  893 km

  border countries:  Burundi 290 km, Democratic Republic of the Congo
  217 km, Tanzania 217 km, Uganda 169 km

Saint Helena:
  0 km

Saint Kitts and Nevis:
  0 km

Saint Lucia:
  0 km

Saint Pierre and Miquelon:
  0 km

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:
  0 km

Samoa:
  0 km

San Marino:
  total:  39 km

  border countries:  Italy 39 km

Sao Tome and Principe:
  0 km

Saudi Arabia:
  total:  4,415 km

  border countries:  Iraq 814 km, Jordan 728 km, Kuwait 222 km, Oman
  676 km, Qatar 60 km, UAE 457 km, Yemen 1,458 km

Senegal:
  total:  2,640 km

  border countries:  The Gambia 740 km, Guinea 330 km, Guinea-Bissau
  338 km, Mali 419 km, Mauritania 813 km

Seychelles:
  0 km

Sierra Leone:
  total:  958 km

  border countries:  Guinea 652 km, Liberia 306 km

Singapore:
  0 km

Slovakia:
  total:  1,355 km

  border countries:  Austria 91 km, Czech Republic 215 km, Hungary 515
  km, Poland 444 km, Ukraine 90 km

Slovenia:
  total:  1,165 km

  border countries:  Austria 330 km, Croatia 501 km, Italy 232 km,
  Hungary 102 km

Solomon Islands:
  0 km

Somalia:
  total:  2,366 km

  border countries:  Djibouti 58 km, Ethiopia 1,626 km, Kenya 682 km

South Africa:
  total:  4,750 km

  border countries:  Botswana 1,840 km, Lesotho 909 km, Mozambique 491
  km, Namibia 855 km, Swaziland 430 km, Zimbabwe 225 km

South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands:
  0 km

Spain:
  total:  1,917.8 km

  border countries:  Andorra 63.7 km, France 623 km, Gibraltar 1.2 km,
  Portugal 1,214 km, Morocco (Ceuta) 6.3 km, Morocco (Melilla) 9.6 km

Spratly Islands:
  0 km

Sri Lanka:
  0 km

Sudan:
  total:  7,687 km

  border countries:  Central African Republic 1,165 km, Chad 1,360 km,
  Democratic Republic of the Congo 628 km, Egypt 1,273 km, Eritrea 605
  km, Ethiopia 1,606 km, Kenya 232 km, Libya 383 km, Uganda 435 km

Suriname:
  total:  1,707 km

  border countries:  Brazil 597 km, French Guiana 510 km, Guyana 600 km

Svalbard:
  0 km

Swaziland:
  total:  535 km

  border countries:  Mozambique 105 km, South Africa 430 km

Sweden:
  total:  2,205 km

  border countries:  Finland 586 km, Norway 1,619 km

Switzerland:
  total:  1,852 km

  border countries:  Austria 164 km, France 573 km, Italy 740 km,
  Liechtenstein 41 km, Germany 334 km

Syria:
  total:  2,253 km

  border countries:  Iraq 605 km, Israel 76 km, Jordan 375 km, Lebanon
  375 km, Turkey 822 km

Tajikistan:
  total:  3,651 km

  border countries:  Afghanistan 1,206 km, China 414 km, Kyrgyzstan
  870 km, Uzbekistan 1,161 km

Tanzania:
  total:  3,402 km

  border countries:  Burundi 451 km, Kenya 769 km, Malawi 475 km,
  Mozambique 756 km, Rwanda 217 km, Uganda 396 km, Zambia 338 km

Thailand:
  total:  4,863 km

  border countries:  Burma 1,800 km, Cambodia 803 km, Laos 1,754 km,
  Malaysia 506 km

Togo:
  total:  1,647 km

  border countries:  Benin 644 km, Burkina Faso 126 km, Ghana 877 km

Tokelau:
  0 km

Tonga:
  0 km

Trinidad and Tobago:
  0 km

Tromelin Island:
  0 km

Tunisia:
  total:  1,424 km

  border countries:  Algeria 965 km, Libya 459 km

Turkey:
  total:  2,627 km

  border countries:  Armenia 268 km, Azerbaijan 9 km, Bulgaria 240 km,
  Georgia 252 km, Greece 206 km, Iran 499 km, Iraq 331 km, Syria 822 km

Turkmenistan:
  total:  3,736 km

  border countries:  Afghanistan 744 km, Iran 992 km, Kazakhstan 379
  km, Uzbekistan 1,621 km

Turks and Caicos Islands:
  0 km

Tuvalu:
  0 km

Uganda:
  total:  2,698 km

  border countries:  Democratic Republic of the Congo 765 km, Kenya
  933 km, Rwanda 169 km, Sudan 435 km, Tanzania 396 km

Ukraine:
  total:  4,558 km

  border countries:  Belarus 891 km, Hungary 103 km, Moldova 939 km,
  Poland 428 km, Romania (south) 169 km, Romania (west) 362 km, Russia
  1,576 km, Slovakia 90 km

United Arab Emirates:
  total:  867 km

  border countries:  Oman 410 km, Saudi Arabia 457 km

United Kingdom:
  total:  360 km

  border countries:  Ireland 360 km

United States:
  total:  12,248 km

  border countries:  Canada 8,893 km (including 2,477 km with Alaska),
  Cuba 29 km (US Naval Base at Guantanamo Bay), Mexico 3,326 km

  note:  Guantanamo Naval Base is leased by the US and thus remains
  part of Cuba

Uruguay:
  total:  1,564 km

  border countries:  Argentina 579 km, Brazil 985 km

Uzbekistan:
  total:  6,221 km

  border countries:  Afghanistan 137 km, Kazakhstan 2,203 km,
  Kyrgyzstan 1,099 km, Tajikistan 1,161 km, Turkmenistan 1,621 km

Vanuatu:
  0 km

Venezuela:
  total:  4,993 km

  border countries:  Brazil 2,200 km, Colombia 2,050 km, Guyana 743 km

Vietnam:
  total:  4,639 km

  border countries:  Cambodia 1,228 km, China 1,281 km, Laos 2,130 km

Virgin Islands:
  0 km

Wake Island:
  0 km

Wallis and Futuna:
  0 km

West Bank:
  total:  404 km

  border countries:  Israel 307 km, Jordan 97 km

Western Sahara:
  total:  2,046 km

  border countries:  Algeria 42 km, Mauritania 1,561 km, Morocco 443 km

World:
  the land boundaries in the world total 251,480.24 km (not
  counting shared boundaries twice)

Yemen:
  total:  1,746 km

  border countries:  Oman 288 km, Saudi Arabia 1,458 km

Yugoslavia:
  total:  2,246 km

  border countries:  Albania 287 km, Bosnia and Herzegovina 527 km,
  Bulgaria 318 km, Croatia (north) 241 km, Croatia (south) 25 km,
  Hungary 151 km, The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia 221 km,
  Romania 476 km

Zambia:
  total:  5,664 km

  border countries:  Angola 1,110 km, Democratic Republic of the Congo
  1,930 km, Malawi 837 km, Mozambique 419 km, Namibia 233 km, Tanzania
  338 km, Zimbabwe 797 km

Zimbabwe:
  total:  3,066 km

  border countries:  Botswana 813 km, Mozambique 1,231 km, South
  Africa 225 km, Zambia 797 km

Taiwan:
  0 km

======================================================================

@Land use



Afghanistan:
  arable land:  12%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  46%

  forests and woodland:  3%

  other:  39% (1993 est.)

Albania:
  arable land:  21%

  permanent crops:  5%

  permanent pastures:  15%

  forests and woodland:  38%

  other:  21% (1993 est.)

Algeria:
  arable land:  3%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  13%

  forests and woodland:  2%

  other:  82% (1993 est.)

American Samoa:
  arable land:  5%

  permanent crops:  10%

  permanent pastures:  0%

  forests and woodland:  70%

  other:  15% (1993 est.)

Andorra:
  arable land:  4%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  45%

  forests and woodland:  35%

  other:  16% (1998 est.)

Angola:
  arable land:  2%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  23%

  forests and woodland:  43%

  other:  32% (1993 est.)

Anguilla:
  arable land:  0%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  0%

  forests and woodland:  0%

  other:  100% (mostly rock with sparse scrub oak, few trees, some
  commercial salt ponds)

Antarctica:
  arable land:  0%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  0%

  forests and woodland:  0%

  other:  100% (ice 98%, barren rock 2%)

Antigua and Barbuda:
  arable land:  18%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  9%

  forests and woodland:  11%

  other:  62% (1993 est.)

Argentina:
  arable land:  9%

  permanent crops:  1%

  permanent pastures:  52%

  forests and woodland:  19%

  other:  19% (1993 est.)

Armenia:
  arable land:  17%

  permanent crops:  3%

  permanent pastures:  24%

  forests and woodland:  15%

  other:  41% (1993 est.)

Aruba:
  arable land:  7% (including aloe 0.01%)

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  0%

  forests and woodland:  0%

  other:  93% (1993 est.)

Ashmore and Cartier Islands:
  arable land:  0%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  0%

  forests and woodland:  0%

  other:  100% (all grass and sand)

Australia:
  arable land:  6%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  54%

  forests and woodland:  19%

  other:  21% (1993 est.)

Austria:
  arable land:  17%

  permanent crops:  1%

  permanent pastures:  23%

  forests and woodland:  39%

  other:  20% (1996 est.)

Azerbaijan:
  arable land:  18%

  permanent crops:  5%

  permanent pastures:  25%

  forests and woodland:  11%

  other:  41% (1993 est.)

Bahamas, The:
  arable land:  1%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  0%

  forests and woodland:  32%

  other:  67% (1993 est.)

Bahrain:
  arable land:  1%

  permanent crops:  1%

  permanent pastures:  6%

  forests and woodland:  0%

  other:  92% (1993 est.)

Baker Island:
  arable land:  0%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  0%

  forests and woodland:  0%

  other:  100%

Bangladesh:
  arable land:  73%

  permanent crops:  2%

  permanent pastures:  5%

  forests and woodland:  15%

  other:  5% (1993 est.)

Barbados:
  arable land:  37%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  5%

  forests and woodland:  12%

  other:  46% (1993 est.)

Bassas da India:
  arable land:  0%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  0%

  forests and woodland:  0%

  other:  100% (all rock)

Belarus:
  arable land:  29%

  permanent crops:  1%

  permanent pastures:  15%

  forests and woodland:  34%

  other:  21% (1993 est.)

Belgium:
  arable land:  24%

  permanent crops:  1%

  permanent pastures:  20%

  forests and woodland:  21%

  other:  34%

Belize:
  arable land:  10%

  permanent crops:  1%

  permanent pastures:  2%

  forests and woodland:  84%

  other:  3% (2000 est.)

Benin:
  arable land:  13%

  permanent crops:  4%

  permanent pastures:  4%

  forests and woodland:  31%

  other:  48% (1993 est.)

Bermuda:
  arable land:  6%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  0%

  forests and woodland:  0%

  other:  94% (55% developed, 39% rural/open space) (1997 est.)

Bhutan:
  arable land:  2%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  6%

  forests and woodland:  66%

  other:  26% (1993 est.)

Bolivia:
  arable land:  2%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  24%

  forests and woodland:  53%

  other:  21% (1993 est.)

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  arable land:  14%

  permanent crops:  5%

  permanent pastures:  20%

  forests and woodland:  39%

  other:  22% (1993 est.)

Botswana:
  arable land:  1%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  46%

  forests and woodland:  47%

  other:  6% (1993 est.)

Bouvet Island:
  arable land:  0%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  0%

  forests and woodland:  0%

  other:  100% (93% ice)

Brazil:
  arable land:  5%

  permanent crops:  1%

  permanent pastures:  22%

  forests and woodland:  58%

  other:  14% (1993 est.)

British Indian Ocean Territory:
  arable land:  0%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  0%

  forests and woodland:  NA%

  other:  NA%

British Virgin Islands:
  arable land:  20%

  permanent crops:  7%

  permanent pastures:  33%

  forests and woodland:  7%

  other:  33% (1993 est.)

Brunei:
  arable land:  1%

  permanent crops:  1%

  permanent pastures:  1%

  forests and woodland:  85%

  other:  12% (1993 est.)

Bulgaria:
  arable land:  43%

  permanent crops:  2%

  permanent pastures:  14%

  forests and woodland:  38%

  other:  3% (1999 est.)

Burkina Faso:
  arable land:  13%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  22%

  forests and woodland:  50%

  other:  15% (1993 est.)

Burma:
  arable land:  15%

  permanent crops:  1%

  permanent pastures:  1%

  forests and woodland:  49%

  other:  34% (1993 est.)

Burundi:
  arable land:  44%

  permanent crops:  9%

  permanent pastures:  36%

  forests and woodland:  3%

  other:  8% (1993 est.)

Cambodia:
  arable land:  13%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  11%

  forests and woodland:  66%

  other:  10% (1993 est.)

Cameroon:
  arable land:  13%

  permanent crops:  2%

  permanent pastures:  4%

  forests and woodland:  78%

  other:  3% (1993 est.)

Canada:
  arable land:  5%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  3%

  forests and woodland:  54%

  other:  38% (1993 est.)

Cape Verde:
  arable land:  11%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  6%

  forests and woodland:  0%

  other:  83% (1993 est.)

Cayman Islands:
  arable land:  0%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  8%

  forests and woodland:  23%

  other:  69% (1993 est.)

Central African Republic:
  arable land:  3%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  5%

  forests and woodland:  75%

  other:  17% (1993 est.)

Chad:
  arable land:  3%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  36%

  forests and woodland:  26%

  other:  35% (1993 est.)

Chile:
  arable land:  5%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  18%

  forests and woodland:  22%

  other:  55% (1993 est.)

China:
  arable land:  10%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  43%

  forests and woodland:  14%

  other:  33% (1993 est.)

Christmas Island:
  arable land:  NA%

  permanent crops:  NA%

  permanent pastures:  NA%

  forests and woodland:  NA%

  other:  NA%

  note:  mainly tropical rainforest of which 60%-70% is in a national
  park

Clipperton Island:
  arable land:  0%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  0%

  forests and woodland:  0%

  other:  100% (all coral)

Cocos (Keeling) Islands:
  arable land:  0%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  0%

  forests and woodland:  0%

  other:  100% (1993 est.)

Colombia:
  arable land:  4%

  permanent crops:  1%

  permanent pastures:  39%

  forests and woodland:  48%

  other:  8% (1993 est.)

Comoros:
  arable land:  35%

  permanent crops:  10%

  permanent pastures:  7%

  forests and woodland:  18%

  other:  30% (1993 est.)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  arable land:  3%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  7%

  forests and woodland:  77%

  other:  13% (1993 est.)

Congo, Republic of the:
  arable land:  0%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  29%

  forests and woodland:  62%

  other:  9% (1993 est.)

Cook Islands:
  arable land:  9%

  permanent crops:  13%

  permanent pastures:  0%

  forests and woodland:  0%

  other:  78% (1993 est.)

Coral Sea Islands:
  arable land:  0%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  0%

  forests and woodland:  0%

  other:  100% (mostly grass or scrub cover)

Costa Rica:
  arable land:  6%

  permanent crops:  5%

  permanent pastures:  46%

  forests and woodland:  31%

  other:  12% (1993 est.)

Cote d'Ivoire:
  arable land:  8%

  permanent crops:  4%

  permanent pastures:  41%

  forests and woodland:  22%

  other:  25% (1993 est.)

Croatia:
  arable land:  21%

  permanent crops:  2%

  permanent pastures:  20%

  forests and woodland:  38%

  other:  19% (1993 est.)

Cuba:
  arable land:  24%

  permanent crops:  7%

  permanent pastures:  27%

  forests and woodland:  24%

  other:  18% (1993 est.)

Cyprus:
  arable land:  12%

  permanent crops:  5%

  permanent pastures:  0%

  forests and woodland:  13%

  other:  70% (1993 est.)

Czech Republic:
  arable land:  41%

  permanent crops:  2%

  permanent pastures:  11%

  forests and woodland:  34%

  other:  12% (1993 est.)

Denmark:
  arable land:  60%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  5%

  forests and woodland:  10%

  other:  25% (1993 est.)

Djibouti:
  arable land:  0%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  9%

  forests and woodland:  0%

  other:  91% (1993 est.)

Dominica:
  arable land:  9%

  permanent crops:  13%

  permanent pastures:  3%

  forests and woodland:  67%

  other:  8% (1993 est.)

Dominican Republic:
  arable land:  21%

  permanent crops:  9%

  permanent pastures:  43%

  forests and woodland:  12%

  other:  15% (1993 est.)

Ecuador:
  arable land:  6%

  permanent crops:  5%

  permanent pastures:  18%

  forests and woodland:  56%

  other:  15% (1993 est.)

Egypt:
  arable land:  2%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  0%

  forests and woodland:  0%

  other:  98% (1993 est.)

El Salvador:
  arable land:  27%

  permanent crops:  8%

  permanent pastures:  29%

  forests and woodland:  5%

  other:  31% (1993 est.)

Equatorial Guinea:
  arable land:  5%

  permanent crops:  4%

  permanent pastures:  4%

  forests and woodland:  46%

  other:  41% (1993 est.)

Eritrea:
  arable land:  12%

  permanent crops:  1%

  permanent pastures:  49%

  forests and woodland:  6%

  other:  32% (1998 est.)

Estonia:
  arable land:  25%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  11%

  forests and woodland:  44%

  other:  20% (1996 est.)

Ethiopia:
  arable land:  12%

  permanent crops:  1%

  permanent pastures:  40%

  forests and woodland:  25%

  other:  22% (1993 est.)

Europa Island:
  arable land:  0%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  0%

  forests and woodland:  100%

  other:  0%

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas):
  arable land:  0%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  99%

  forests and woodland:  0%

  other:  1% (1993 est.)

Faroe Islands:
  arable land:  6%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  0%

  forests and woodland:  0%

  other:  94% (1996)

Fiji:
  arable land:  10%

  permanent crops:  4%

  permanent pastures:  10%

  forests and woodland:  65%

  other:  11% (1993 est.)

Finland:
  arable land:  8%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  0%

  forests and woodland:  76%

  other:  16% (1993 est.)

France:
  arable land:  33%

  permanent crops:  2%

  permanent pastures:  20%

  forests and woodland:  27%

  other:  18% (1993 est.)

French Guiana:
  arable land:  0%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  0%

  forests and woodland:  90%

  other:  10% (1996 est.)

French Polynesia:
  arable land:  1%

  permanent crops:  6%

  permanent pastures:  5%

  forests and woodland:  31%

  other:  57% (1993 est.)

French Southern and Antarctic Lands:
  arable land:  0%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  0%

  forests and woodland:  0%

  other:  100%

Gabon:
  arable land:  1%

  permanent crops:  1%

  permanent pastures:  18%

  forests and woodland:  77%

  other:  3% (1993 est.)

Gambia, The:
  arable land:  18%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  9%

  forests and woodland:  28%

  other:  45% (1993 est.)

Gaza Strip:
  arable land:  24%

  permanent crops:  39%

  permanent pastures:  0%

  forests and woodland:  11%

  other:  26% (1993 est.)

Georgia:
  arable land:  9%

  permanent crops:  4%

  permanent pastures:  25%

  forests and woodland:  34%

  other:  28% (1993 est.)

Germany:
  arable land:  33%

  permanent crops:  1%

  permanent pastures:  15%

  forests and woodland:  31%

  other:  20% (1993 est.)

Ghana:
  arable land:  12%

  permanent crops:  7%

  permanent pastures:  22%

  forests and woodland:  35%

  other:  24% (1993 est.)

Gibraltar:
  arable land:  0%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  0%

  forests and woodland:  0%

  other:  100% (1993 est.)

Glorioso Islands:
  arable land:  0%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  0%

  forests and woodland:  0%

  other:  100% (all lush vegetation and coconut palms)

Greece:
  arable land:  19%

  permanent crops:  8%

  permanent pastures:  41%

  forests and woodland:  20%

  other:  12% (1993 est.)

Greenland:
  arable land:  0%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  1%

  forests and woodland:  0%

  other:  99% (1998 est.)

Grenada:
  arable land:  15%

  permanent crops:  18%

  permanent pastures:  3%

  forests and woodland:  9%

  other:  55% (1993 est.)

Guadeloupe:
  arable land:  14%

  permanent crops:  4%

  permanent pastures:  14%

  forests and woodland:  39%

  other:  29% (1993 est.)

Guam:
  arable land:  11%

  permanent crops:  11%

  permanent pastures:  15%

  forests and woodland:  18%

  other:  45% (1993 est.)

Guatemala:
  arable land:  12%

  permanent crops:  5%

  permanent pastures:  24%

  forests and woodland:  54%

  other:  5% (1993 est.)

Guernsey:
  arable land:  NA%

  permanent crops:  NA%

  permanent pastures:  NA%

  forests and woodland:  NA%

  other:  NA%

Guinea:
  arable land:  2%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  22%

  forests and woodland:  59%

  other:  17% (1993 est.)

Guinea-Bissau:
  arable land:  11%

  permanent crops:  1%

  permanent pastures:  38%

  forests and woodland:  38%

  other:  12% (1993 est.)

Guyana:
  arable land:  2%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  6%

  forests and woodland:  84%

  other:  8% (1993 est.)

Haiti:
  arable land:  20%

  permanent crops:  13%

  permanent pastures:  18%

  forests and woodland:  5%

  other:  44% (1993 est.)

Heard Island and McDonald Islands:
  arable land:  0%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  0%

  forests and woodland:  0%

  other:  100%

Holy See (Vatican City):
  arable land:  0%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  0%

  forests and woodland:  0%

  other:  100% (urban area)

Honduras:
  arable land:  15%

  permanent crops:  3%

  permanent pastures:  14%

  forests and woodland:  54%

  other:  14% (1993 est.)

Hong Kong:
  arable land:  6%

  permanent crops:  1%

  permanent pastures:  1%

  forests and woodland:  20%

  other:  72% (1997 est.)

Howland Island:
  arable land:  0%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  0%

  forests and woodland:  5%

  other:  95%

Hungary:
  arable land:  51%

  permanent crops:  3.6%

  permanent pastures:  12.4%

  forests and woodland:  19%

  other:  14% (1999)

Iceland:
  arable land:  0%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  23%

  forests and woodland:  1%

  other:  76% (1993 est.)

India:
  arable land:  56%

  permanent crops:  1%

  permanent pastures:  4%

  forests and woodland:  23%

  other:  16% (1993 est.)

Indonesia:
  arable land:  10%

  permanent crops:  7%

  permanent pastures:  7%

  forests and woodland:  62%

  other:  14% (1993 est.)

Iran:
  arable land:  10%

  permanent crops:  1%

  permanent pastures:  27%

  forests and woodland:  7%

  other:  55% (1993 est.)

Iraq:
  arable land:  12%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  9%

  forests and woodland:  0%

  other:  79% (1993 est.)

Ireland:
  arable land:  13%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  68%

  forests and woodland:  5%

  other:  14% (1993 est.)

Israel:
  arable land:  17%

  permanent crops:  4%

  permanent pastures:  7%

  forests and woodland:  6%

  other:  66% (1993 est.)

Italy:
  arable land:  31%

  permanent crops:  10%

  permanent pastures:  15%

  forests and woodland:  23%

  other:  21% (1993 est.)

Jamaica:
  arable land:  14%

  permanent crops:  6%

  permanent pastures:  24%

  forests and woodland:  17%

  other:  39% (1993 est.)

Jan Mayen:
  arable land:  0%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  0%

  forests and woodland:  0%

  other:  100%

Japan:
  arable land:  11%

  permanent crops:  1%

  permanent pastures:  2%

  forests and woodland:  67%

  other:  19% (1993 est.)

Jarvis Island:
  arable land:  0%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  0%

  forests and woodland:  0%

  other:  100%

Jersey:
  arable land:  66%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  0%

  forests and woodland:  0%

  other:  34%

Johnston Atoll:
  arable land:  0%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  0%

  forests and woodland:  0%

  other:  100%

Jordan:
  arable land:  4%

  permanent crops:  1%

  permanent pastures:  9%

  forests and woodland:  1%

  other:  85% (1993 est.)

Juan de Nova Island:
  arable land:  0%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  0%

  forests and woodland:  90%

  other:  10%

Kazakhstan:
  arable land:  12%

  permanent crops:  11%

  permanent pastures:  57%

  forests and woodland:  4%

  other:  16% (1996 est.)

Kenya:
  arable land:  7%

  permanent crops:  1%

  permanent pastures:  37%

  forests and woodland:  30%

  other:  25% (1993 est.)

Kingman Reef:
  arable land:  0%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  0%

  forests and woodland:  0%

  other:  100%

Kiribati:
  arable land:  0%

  permanent crops:  51%

  permanent pastures:  0%

  forests and woodland:  3%

  other:  46% (1993 est.)

Korea, North:
  arable land:  14%

  permanent crops:  2%

  permanent pastures:  0%

  forests and woodland:  61%

  other:  23% (1993 est.)

Korea, South:
  arable land:  19%

  permanent crops:  2%

  permanent pastures:  1%

  forests and woodland:  65%

  other:  13% (1993 est.)

Kuwait:
  arable land:  0%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  8%

  forests and woodland:  0%

  other:  92% (1993 est.)

Kyrgyzstan:
  arable land:  7%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  44%

  forests and woodland:  4%

  other:  45% (1993 est.)

  note:  Kyrgyzstan has the world's largest natural growth walnut
  forest

Laos:
  arable land:  3%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  3%

  forests and woodland:  54%

  other:  40% (1993 est.)

Latvia:
  arable land:  27%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  13%

  forests and woodland:  46%

  other:  14% (1993 est.)

Lebanon:
  arable land:  18%

  permanent crops:  9%

  permanent pastures:  1%

  forests and woodland:  8%

  other:  64% (1996 est.)

Lesotho:
  arable land:  11%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  66%

  forests and woodland:  0%

  other:  23% (1993 est.)

Liberia:
  arable land:  1%

  permanent crops:  3%

  permanent pastures:  59%

  forests and woodland:  18%

  other:  19% (1993 est.)

Libya:
  arable land:  1%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  8%

  forests and woodland:  0%

  other:  91% (1993 est.)

Liechtenstein:
  arable land:  24%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  16%

  forests and woodland:  35%

  other:  25% (1993 est.)

Lithuania:
  arable land:  39%

  permanent crops:  9%

  permanent pastures:  6%

  forests and woodland:  31%

  other:  15% (2001 est.)

Luxembourg:
  arable land:  24%

  permanent crops:  1%

  permanent pastures:  20%

  forests and woodland:  35%

  other:  20%

Macau:
  arable land:  0%

  permanent crops:  2%

  permanent pastures:  0%

  forests and woodland:  0%

  other:  98% (1998 est.)

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  arable land:  24%

  permanent crops:  2%

  permanent pastures:  25%

  forests and woodland:  39%

  other:  10% (1993 est.)

Madagascar:
  arable land:  4%

  permanent crops:  1%

  permanent pastures:  41%

  forests and woodland:  40%

  other:  14% (1993 est.)

Malawi:
  arable land:  34%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  20%

  forests and woodland:  39%

  other:  7% (1993 est.)

Malaysia:
  arable land:  3%

  permanent crops:  12%

  permanent pastures:  0%

  forests and woodland:  68%

  other:  17% (1993 est.)

Maldives:
  arable land:  10%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  3%

  forests and woodland:  3%

  other:  84% (1993 est.)

Mali:
  arable land:  2%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  25%

  forests and woodland:  6%

  other:  67% (1993 est.)

Malta:
  arable land:  32%

  permanent crops:  3%

  permanent pastures:  0%

  forests and woodland:  4%

  other:  61% (2000 est.)

Man, Isle of:
  arable land:  9%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  46%

  forests and woodland:  6%

  other:  39% (includes 25% mountain and heathland)

Marshall Islands:
  arable land:  0%

  permanent crops:  60%

  permanent pastures:  0%

  forests and woodland:  0%

  other:  40%

Martinique:
  arable land:  8%

  permanent crops:  8%

  permanent pastures:  17%

  forests and woodland:  44%

  other:  23% (1993 est.)

Mauritania:
  arable land:  0%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  38%

  forests and woodland:  4%

  other:  58% (1993 est.)

Mauritius:
  arable land:  49%

  permanent crops:  3%

  permanent pastures:  3%

  forests and woodland:  22%

  other:  23% (1993 est.)

Mayotte:
  arable land:  NA%

  permanent crops:  NA%

  permanent pastures:  NA%

  forests and woodland:  NA%

  other:  NA%

Mexico:
  arable land:  12%

  permanent crops:  1%

  permanent pastures:  39%

  forests and woodland:  26%

  other:  22% (1993 est.)

Micronesia, Federated States of:
  arable land:  NA%

  permanent crops:  NA%

  permanent pastures:  NA%

  forests and woodland:  NA%

  other:  NA%

Midway Islands:
  arable land:  0%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  0%

  forests and woodland:  0%

  other:  100%

Moldova:
  arable land:  53%

  permanent crops:  14%

  permanent pastures:  13%

  forests and woodland:  13%

  other:  7% (1993 est.)

Monaco:
  arable land:  0%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  0%

  forests and woodland:  0%

  other:  100% (urban area)

Mongolia:
  arable land:  5.7%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  81%

  forests and woodland:  11.4%

  other:  1.9% (2000 est.)

Montserrat:
  arable land:  20%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  10%

  forests and woodland:  40%

  other:  30% (1993 est.)

Morocco:
  arable land:  21%

  permanent crops:  1%

  permanent pastures:  47%

  forests and woodland:  20%

  other:  11% (1993 est.)

Mozambique:
  arable land:  4%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  56%

  forests and woodland:  18%

  other:  22% (1993 est.)

Namibia:
  arable land:  1%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  46%

  forests and woodland:  22%

  other:  31% (1993 est.)

Nauru:
  arable land:  0%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  0%

  forests and woodland:  0%

  other:  100% (1993 est.)

Navassa Island:
  arable land:  0%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  10%

  forests and woodland:  0%

  other:  90%

Nepal:
  arable land:  17%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  15%

  forests and woodland:  42%

  other:  26% (1993 est.)

Netherlands:
  arable land:  25%

  permanent crops:  3%

  permanent pastures:  25%

  forests and woodland:  8%

  other:  39% (1996 est.)

Netherlands Antilles:
  arable land:  10%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  0%

  forests and woodland:  0%

  other:  90% (1993 est.)

New Caledonia:
  arable land:  0%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  12%

  forests and woodland:  39%

  other:  49% (1993 est.)

New Zealand:
  arable land:  9%

  permanent crops:  5%

  permanent pastures:  50%

  forests and woodland:  28%

  other:  8% (1993 est.)

Nicaragua:
  arable land:  9%

  permanent crops:  1%

  permanent pastures:  46%

  forests and woodland:  27%

  other:  17% (1993 est.)

Niger:
  arable land:  3%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  7%

  forests and woodland:  2%

  other:  88% (1993 est.)

Nigeria:
  arable land:  33%

  permanent crops:  3%

  permanent pastures:  44%

  forests and woodland:  12%

  other:  8% (1993 est.)

Niue:
  arable land:  19%

  permanent crops:  8%

  permanent pastures:  4%

  forests and woodland:  19%

  other:  50% (1993 est.)

Norfolk Island:
  arable land:  0%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  25%

  forests and woodland:  0%

  other:  75% (1993 est.)

Northern Mariana Islands:
  arable land:  21%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  19%

  forests and woodland:  0%

  other:  60%

Norway:
  arable land:  3%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  0%

  forests and woodland:  27%

  other:  70% (1993 est.)

Oman:
  arable land:  0%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  5%

  forests and woodland:  0%

  other:  95% (1993 est.)

Pakistan:
  arable land:  27%

  permanent crops:  1%

  permanent pastures:  6%

  forests and woodland:  5%

  other:  61% (1993 est.)

Palau:
  arable land:  NA%

  permanent crops:  NA%

  permanent pastures:  NA%

  forests and woodland:  NA%

  other:  NA%

Palmyra Atoll:
  arable land:  0%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  0%

  forests and woodland:  100%

  other:  0%

Panama:
  arable land:  7%

  permanent crops:  2%

  permanent pastures:  20%

  forests and woodland:  44%

  other:  27% (1993 est.)

Papua New Guinea:
  arable land:  0.1%

  permanent crops:  1%

  permanent pastures:  0%

  forests and woodland:  92.9%

  other:  6% (1993 est.)

Paracel Islands:
  arable land:  0%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  0%

  forests and woodland:  0%

  other:  100%

Paraguay:
  arable land:  6%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  55%

  forests and woodland:  32%

  other:  7% (1993 est.)

Peru:
  arable land:  3%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  21%

  forests and woodland:  66%

  other:  10% (1993 est.)

Philippines:
  arable land:  19%

  permanent crops:  12%

  permanent pastures:  4%

  forests and woodland:  46%

  other:  19% (1993 est.)

Pitcairn Islands:
  arable land:  NA%

  permanent crops:  NA%

  permanent pastures:  NA%

  forests and woodland:  NA%

  other:  NA%

Poland:
  arable land:  47%

  permanent crops:  1%

  permanent pastures:  13%

  forests and woodland:  29%

  other:  10% (1993 est.)

Portugal:
  arable land:  26%

  permanent crops:  9%

  permanent pastures:  9%

  forests and woodland:  36%

  other:  20% (1993 est.)

Puerto Rico:
  arable land:  4%

  permanent crops:  5%

  permanent pastures:  26%

  forests and woodland:  16%

  other:  49% (1993 est.)

Qatar:
  arable land:  1%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  5%

  forests and woodland:  0%

  other:  94% (1993 est.)

Reunion:
  arable land:  17%

  permanent crops:  2%

  permanent pastures:  5%

  forests and woodland:  35%

  other:  41% (1993 est.)

Romania:
  arable land:  41%

  permanent crops:  3%

  permanent pastures:  21%

  forests and woodland:  29%

  other:  6% (1993 est.)

Russia:
  arable land:  8%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  4%

  forests and woodland:  46%

  other:  42% (1993 est.)

Rwanda:
  arable land:  35%

  permanent crops:  13%

  permanent pastures:  18%

  forests and woodland:  22%

  other:  12% (1993 est.)

Saint Helena:
  arable land:  6%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  6%

  forests and woodland:  6%

  other:  82% (1993 est.)

Saint Kitts and Nevis:
  arable land:  22%

  permanent crops:  17%

  permanent pastures:  3%

  forests and woodland:  17%

  other:  41% (1993 est.)

Saint Lucia:
  arable land:  8%

  permanent crops:  21%

  permanent pastures:  5%

  forests and woodland:  13%

  other:  53% (1993 est.)

Saint Pierre and Miquelon:
  arable land:  13%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  0%

  forests and woodland:  4%

  other:  83% (1993 est.)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:
  arable land:  10%

  permanent crops:  18%

  permanent pastures:  5%

  forests and woodland:  36%

  other:  31% (1993 est.)

Samoa:
  arable land:  19%

  permanent crops:  24%

  permanent pastures:  0%

  forests and woodland:  47%

  other:  10%

San Marino:
  arable land:  17%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  0%

  forests and woodland:  0%

  other:  83% (1993 est.)

Sao Tome and Principe:
  arable land:  2%

  permanent crops:  36%

  permanent pastures:  1%

  forests and woodland:  0%

  other:  61% (1993 est.)

Saudi Arabia:
  arable land:  2%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  56%

  forests and woodland:  1%

  other:  41% (1993 est.)

Senegal:
  arable land:  12%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  16%

  forests and woodland:  54%

  other:  18% (1993 est.)

Seychelles:
  arable land:  2%

  permanent crops:  13%

  permanent pastures:  0%

  forests and woodland:  11%

  other:  74% (1993 est.)

Sierra Leone:
  arable land:  7%

  permanent crops:  1%

  permanent pastures:  31%

  forests and woodland:  28%

  other:  33% (1993 est.)

Singapore:
  arable land:  2%

  permanent crops:  6%

  permanent pastures:  0%

  forests and woodland:  5%

  other:  87% (1993 est.)

Slovakia:
  arable land:  31%

  permanent crops:  3%

  permanent pastures:  17%

  forests and woodland:  41%

  other:  8% (1993 est.)

Slovenia:
  arable land:  12%

  permanent crops:  3%

  permanent pastures:  24%

  forests and woodland:  54%

  other:  7% (1996 est.)

Solomon Islands:
  arable land:  1%

  permanent crops:  1%

  permanent pastures:  1%

  forests and woodland:  88%

  other:  9% (1993 est.)

Somalia:
  arable land:  2%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  69%

  forests and woodland:  26%

  other:  3% (1993 est.)

South Africa:
  arable land:  10%

  permanent crops:  1%

  permanent pastures:  67%

  forests and woodland:  7%

  other:  15% (1993 est.)

South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands:
  arable land:  0%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  0%

  forests and woodland:  0%

  other:  100% (largely covered by permanent ice and snow with some
  sparse vegetation consisting of grass, moss, and lichen)

Spain:
  arable land:  30%

  permanent crops:  9%

  permanent pastures:  21%

  forests and woodland:  32%

  other:  8% (1993 est.)

Spratly Islands:
  arable land:  0%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  0%

  forests and woodland:  0%

  other:  100%

Sri Lanka:
  arable land:  14%

  permanent crops:  15%

  permanent pastures:  7%

  forests and woodland:  32%

  other:  32% (1993 est.)

Sudan:
  arable land:  5%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  46%

  forests and woodland:  19%

  other:  30% (1993 est.)

Suriname:
  arable land:  0%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  0%

  forests and woodland:  96%

  other:  4% (1993 est.)

  note:  there are 94,927 hectares of arable land, 7,195 hectares of
  permanent crops, and 15,000 hectares of permanent pastures

Svalbard:
  arable land:  0%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  0%

  forests and woodland:  0%

  other:  100% (no trees, and the only bushes are crowberry and
  cloudberry)

Swaziland:
  arable land:  11%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  62%

  forests and woodland:  7%

  other:  20% (1993 est.)

Sweden:
  arable land:  7%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  1%

  forests and woodland:  68%

  other:  24% (1993 est.)

Switzerland:
  arable land:  10%

  permanent crops:  2%

  permanent pastures:  28%

  forests and woodland:  32%

  other:  28% (1993 est.)

Syria:
  arable land:  28%

  permanent crops:  4%

  permanent pastures:  43%

  forests and woodland:  3%

  other:  22% (1993 est.)

Tajikistan:
  arable land:  6%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  25%

  forests and woodland:  4%

  other:  65% (1993 est.)

Tanzania:
  arable land:  3%

  permanent crops:  1%

  permanent pastures:  40%

  forests and woodland:  38%

  other:  18% (1993 est.)

Thailand:
  arable land:  34%

  permanent crops:  6%

  permanent pastures:  2%

  forests and woodland:  26%

  other:  32% (1993 est.)

Togo:
  arable land:  38%

  permanent crops:  7%

  permanent pastures:  4%

  forests and woodland:  17%

  other:  34% (1993 est.)

Tokelau:
  arable land:  0% (soil is thin and infertile)

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  0%

  forests and woodland:  0%

  other:  100% (1993 est.)

Tonga:
  arable land:  24%

  permanent crops:  43%

  permanent pastures:  6%

  forests and woodland:  11%

  other:  16% (1993 est.)

Trinidad and Tobago:
  arable land:  15%

  permanent crops:  9%

  permanent pastures:  2%

  forests and woodland:  46%

  other:  28% (1993 est.)

Tromelin Island:
  arable land:  0%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  0%

  forests and woodland:  0%

  other:  100% (scattered bushes)

Tunisia:
  arable land:  19%

  permanent crops:  13%

  permanent pastures:  20%

  forests and woodland:  4%

  other:  44% (1993 est.)

Turkey:
  arable land:  32%

  permanent crops:  4%

  permanent pastures:  16%

  forests and woodland:  26%

  other:  22% (1993 est.)

Turkmenistan:
  arable land:  3%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  63%

  forests and woodland:  8%

  other:  26% (1993 est.)

Turks and Caicos Islands:
  arable land:  2%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  0%

  forests and woodland:  0%

  other:  98% (1993 est.)

Tuvalu:
  arable land:  0%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  0%

  forests and woodland:  0%

  other:  100% (1993 est.)

Uganda:
  arable land:  25%

  permanent crops:  9%

  permanent pastures:  9%

  forests and woodland:  28%

  other:  29% (1993 est.)

Ukraine:
  arable land:  58%

  permanent crops:  2%

  permanent pastures:  13%

  forests and woodland:  18%

  other:  9% (1993 est.)

United Arab Emirates:
  arable land:  0%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  2%

  forests and woodland:  0%

  other:  98% (1993 est.)

United Kingdom:
  arable land:  25%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  46%

  forests and woodland:  10%

  other:  19% (1993 est.)

United States:
  arable land:  19%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  25%

  forests and woodland:  30%

  other:  26% (1993 est.)

Uruguay:
  arable land:  7%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  77%

  forests and woodland:  6%

  other:  10% (1997 est.)

Uzbekistan:
  arable land:  9%

  permanent crops:  1%

  permanent pastures:  46%

  forests and woodland:  3%

  other:  41% (1993 est.)

Vanuatu:
  arable land:  2%

  permanent crops:  10%

  permanent pastures:  2%

  forests and woodland:  75%

  other:  11% (1993 est.)

Venezuela:
  arable land:  4%

  permanent crops:  1%

  permanent pastures:  20%

  forests and woodland:  34%

  other:  41% (1993 est.)

Vietnam:
  arable land:  17%

  permanent crops:  4%

  permanent pastures:  1%

  forests and woodland:  30%

  other:  48% (1993 est.)

Virgin Islands:
  arable land:  15%

  permanent crops:  6%

  permanent pastures:  26%

  forests and woodland:  6%

  other:  47% (1993 est.)

Wake Island:
  arable land:  0%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  0%

  forests and woodland:  0%

  other:  100%

Wallis and Futuna:
  arable land:  5%

  permanent crops:  20%

  permanent pastures:  0%

  forests and woodland:  0%

  other:  75% (1993 est.)

West Bank:
  arable land:  27%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  32%

  forests and woodland:  1%

  other:  40%

Western Sahara:
  arable land:  0%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  19%

  forests and woodland:  0%

  other:  81%

World:
  arable land:  10%

  permanent crops:  1%

  permanent pastures:  26%

  forests and woodland:  32%

  other:  31% (1993 est.)

Yemen:
  arable land:  3%

  permanent crops:  13%

  permanent pastures:  33.5%

  forests and woodland:  4%

  other:  46.5% (1999)

Yugoslavia:
  arable land:  40%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  20.7%

  forests and woodland:  17.3%

  other:  22% (1998 est.)

Zambia:
  arable land:  7%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  40%

  forests and woodland:  39%

  other:  14% (1993 est.)

Zimbabwe:
  arable land:  7%

  permanent crops:  0%

  permanent pastures:  13%

  forests and woodland:  23%

  other:  57% (1993 est.)

Taiwan:
  arable land:  24%

  permanent crops:  1%

  permanent pastures:  5%

  forests and woodland:  55%

  other:  15%

======================================================================

@Languages



Afghanistan:
  Pashtu 35%, Afghan Persian (Dari) 50%, Turkic languages
  (primarily Uzbek and Turkmen) 11%, 30 minor languages (primarily
  Balochi and Pashai) 4%, much bilingualism

Albania:
  Albanian (Tosk is the official dialect), Greek

Algeria:
  Arabic (official), French, Berber dialects

American Samoa:
  Samoan (closely related to Hawaiian and other
  Polynesian languages), English

  note:  most people are bilingual

Andorra:
  Catalan (official), French, Castilian

Angola:
  Portuguese (official), Bantu and other African languages

Anguilla:
  English (official)

Antigua and Barbuda:
  English (official), local dialects

Argentina:
  Spanish (official), English, Italian, German, French

Armenia:
  Armenian 96%, Russian 2%, other 2%

Aruba:
  Dutch (official), Papiamento (a Spanish, Portuguese, Dutch,
  English dialect), English (widely spoken), Spanish

Australia:
  English, native languages

Austria:
  German

Azerbaijan:
  Azerbaijani (Azeri) 89%, Russian 3%, Armenian 2%, other
  6% (1995 est.)

Bahamas, The:
  English, Creole (among Haitian immigrants)

Bahrain:
  Arabic, English, Farsi, Urdu

Bangladesh:
  Bangla (official, also known as Bengali), English

Barbados:
  English

Belarus:
  Byelorussian, Russian, other

Belgium:
  Dutch 58%, French 32%, German 10%, legally bilingual (Dutch
  and French)

Belize:
  English (official), Spanish, Mayan, Garifuna (Carib), Creole

Benin:
  French (official), Fon and Yoruba (most common vernaculars in
  south), tribal languages (at least six major ones in north)

Bermuda:
  English (official), Portuguese

Bhutan:
  Dzongkha (official), Bhotes speak various Tibetan dialects,
  Nepalese speak various Nepalese dialects

Bolivia:
  Spanish (official), Quechua (official), Aymara (official)

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  Croatian, Serbian, Bosnian

Botswana:
  English (official), Setswana

Brazil:
  Portuguese (official), Spanish, English, French

British Virgin Islands:
  English (official)

Brunei:
  Malay (official), English, Chinese

Bulgaria:
  Bulgarian, secondary languages closely correspond to
  ethnic breakdown

Burkina Faso:
  French (official), native African languages belonging
  to Sudanic family spoken by 90% of the population

Burma:
  Burmese, minority ethnic groups have their own languages

Burundi:
  Kirundi (official), French (official), Swahili (along Lake
  Tanganyika and in the Bujumbura area)

Cambodia:
  Khmer (official) 95%, French, English

Cameroon:
  24 major African language groups, English (official),
  French (official)

Canada:
  English 59.3% (official), French 23.2% (official), other
  17.5%

Cape Verde:
  Portuguese, Crioulo (a blend of Portuguese and West
  African words)

Cayman Islands:
  English

Central African Republic:
  French (official), Sangho (lingua franca
  and national language), Arabic, Hunsa, Swahili

Chad:
  French (official), Arabic (official), Sara and Sango (in
  south), more than 100 different languages and dialects

Chile:
  Spanish

China:
  Standard Chinese or Mandarin (Putonghua, based on the Beijing
  dialect), Yue (Cantonese), Wu (Shanghaiese), Minbei (Fuzhou), Minnan
  (Hokkien-Taiwanese), Xiang, Gan, Hakka dialects, minority languages
  (see Ethnic groups entry)

Christmas Island:
  English, Chinese, Malay

Cocos (Keeling) Islands:
  English, Malay

Colombia:
  Spanish

Comoros:
  Arabic (official), French (official), Comoran (a blend of
  Swahili and Arabic)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  French (official), Lingala (a
  lingua franca trade language), Kingwana (a dialect of Kiswahili or
  Swahili), Kikongo, Tshiluba

Congo, Republic of the:
  French (official), Lingala and Monokutuba
  (lingua franca trade languages), many local languages and dialects
  (of which Kikongo has the most users)

Cook Islands:
  English (official), Maori

Costa Rica:
  Spanish (official), English spoken around Puerto Limon

Cote d'Ivoire:
  French (official), 60 native dialects with Dioula the
  most widely spoken

Croatia:
  Croatian 96%, other 4% (including Italian, Hungarian,
  Czech, Slovak, and German)

Cuba:
  Spanish

Cyprus:
  Greek, Turkish, English

Czech Republic:
  Czech

Denmark:
  Danish, Faroese, Greenlandic (an Inuit dialect), German
  (small minority)

  note:  English is the predominant second language

Djibouti:
  French (official), Arabic (official), Somali, Afar

Dominica:
  English (official), French patois

Dominican Republic:
  Spanish

Ecuador:
  Spanish (official), Amerindian languages (especially
  Quechua)

Egypt:
  Arabic (official), English and French widely understood by
  educated classes

El Salvador:
  Spanish, Nahua (among some Amerindians)

Equatorial Guinea:
  Spanish (official), French (official), pidgin
  English, Fang, Bubi, Ibo

Eritrea:
  Afar, Amharic, Arabic, Tigre and Kunama, Tigrinya, other
  Cushitic languages

Estonia:
  Estonian (official), Russian, Ukrainian, English, Finnish,
  other

Ethiopia:
  Amharic, Tigrinya, Oromigna, Guaragigna, Somali, Arabic,
  other local languages, English (major foreign language taught in
  schools)

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas):
  English

Faroe Islands:
  Faroese (derived from Old Norse), Danish

Fiji:
  English (official), Fijian, Hindustani

Finland:
  Finnish 93.4% (official), Swedish 5.9% (official), small
  Lapp- and Russian-speaking minorities

France:
  French 100%, rapidly declining regional dialects and
  languages (Provencal, Breton, Alsatian, Corsican, Catalan, Basque,
  Flemish)

French Guiana:
  French

French Polynesia:
  French (official), Tahitian (official)

Gabon:
  French (official), Fang, Myene, Bateke, Bapounou/Eschira,
  Bandjabi

Gambia, The:
  English (official), Mandinka, Wolof, Fula, other
  indigenous vernaculars

Gaza Strip:
  Arabic, Hebrew (spoken by Israeli settlers and many
  Palestinians), English (widely understood)

Georgia:
  Georgian 71% (official), Russian 9%, Armenian 7%, Azeri 6%,
  other 7%

  note:  Abkhaz is the official language in Abkhazia

Germany:
  German

Ghana:
  English (official), African languages (including Akan,
  Moshi-Dagomba, Ewe, and Ga)

Gibraltar:
  English (used in schools and for official purposes),
  Spanish, Italian, Portuguese, Russian

Greece:
  Greek 99% (official), English, French

Greenland:
  Greenlandic (East Inuit), Danish, English

Grenada:
  English (official), French patois

Guadeloupe:
  French (official) 99%, Creole patois

Guam:
  English, Chamorro, Japanese

Guatemala:
  Spanish 60%, Amerindian languages 40% (more than 20
  Amerindian languages, including Quiche, Cakchiquel, Kekchi, Mam,
  Garifuna, and Xinca)

Guernsey:
  English, French, Norman-French dialect spoken in country
  districts

Guinea:
  French (official), each ethnic group has its own language

Guinea-Bissau:
  Portuguese (official), Crioulo, African languages

Guyana:
  English, Amerindian dialects, Creole, Hindi, Urdu

Haiti:
  French (official), Creole (official)

Holy See (Vatican City):
  Italian, Latin, French, various other
  languages

Honduras:
  Spanish, Amerindian dialects

Hong Kong:
  Chinese (Cantonese), English; both are official

Hungary:
  Hungarian 98.2%, other 1.8%

Iceland:
  Icelandic

India:
  English enjoys associate status but is the most important
  language for national, political, and commercial communication,
  Hindi the national language and primary tongue of 30% of the people,
  Bengali (official), Telugu (official), Marathi (official), Tamil
  (official), Urdu (official), Gujarati (official), Malayalam
  (official), Kannada (official), Oriya (official), Punjabi
  (official), Assamese (official), Kashmiri (official), Sindhi
  (official), Sanskrit (official), Hindustani (a popular variant of
  Hindi/Urdu spoken widely throughout northern India)

  note:  24 languages each spoken by a million or more persons;
  numerous other languages and dialects, for the most part mutually
  unintelligible

Indonesia:
  Bahasa Indonesia (official, modified form of Malay),
  English, Dutch, local dialects, the most widely spoken of which is
  Javanese

Iran:
  Persian and Persian dialects 58%, Turkic and Turkic dialects
  26%, Kurdish 9%, Luri 2%, Balochi 1%, Arabic 1%, Turkish 1%, other 2%

Iraq:
  Arabic, Kurdish (official in Kurdish regions), Assyrian,
  Armenian

Ireland:
  English is the language generally used, Irish (Gaelic)
  spoken mainly in areas located along the western seaboard

Israel:
  Hebrew (official), Arabic used officially for Arab minority,
  English most commonly used foreign language

Italy:
  Italian (official), German (parts of Trentino-Alto Adige
  region are predominantly German speaking), French (small
  French-speaking minority in Valle d'Aosta region), Slovene
  (Slovene-speaking minority in the Trieste-Gorizia area)

Jamaica:
  English, Creole

Japan:
  Japanese

Jersey:
  English (official), French (official), Norman-French dialect
  spoken in country districts

Jordan:
  Arabic (official), English widely understood among upper and
  middle classes

Kazakhstan:
  Kazakh (Qazaq, state language) 40%, Russian (official,
  used in everyday business) 66%

Kenya:
  English (official), Kiswahili (official), numerous indigenous
  languages

Kiribati:
  English (official), I-Kiribati

Korea, North:
  Korean

Korea, South:
  Korean, English widely taught in junior high and high
  school

Kuwait:
  Arabic (official), English widely spoken

Kyrgyzstan:
  Kirghiz (Kyrgyz) - official language, Russian - official
  language

  note:  in May 2000, the Kyrgyzstani legislature made Russian an
  official language, equal in status to Kirghiz

Laos:
  Lao (official), French, English, and various ethnic languages

Latvia:
  Latvian or Lettish (official), Lithuanian, Russian, other

Lebanon:
  Arabic (official), French, English, Armenian

Lesotho:
  Sesotho (southern Sotho), English (official), Zulu, Xhosa

Liberia:
  English 20% (official), some 20 ethnic group languages, of
  which a few can be written and are used in correspondence

Libya:
  Arabic, Italian, English, all are widely understood in the
  major cities

Liechtenstein:
  German (official), Alemannic dialect

Lithuania:
  Lithuanian (official), Polish, Russian

Luxembourg:
  Luxembourgish (national language), German
  (administrative language), French (administrative language)

Macau:
  Portuguese, Chinese (Cantonese)

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  Macedonian 70%, Albanian
  21%, Turkish 3%, Serbo-Croatian 3%, other 3%

Madagascar:
  French (official), Malagasy (official)

Malawi:
  English (official), Chichewa (official), other languages
  important regionally

Malaysia:
  Bahasa Melayu (official), English, Chinese dialects
  (Cantonese, Mandarin, Hokkien, Hakka, Hainan, Foochow), Tamil,
  Telugu, Malayalam, Panjabi, Thai; note - in addition, in East
  Malaysia several indigenous languages are spoken, the largest of
  which are Iban and Kadazan

Maldives:
  Maldivian Dhivehi (dialect of Sinhala, script derived from
  Arabic), English spoken by most government officials

Mali:
  French (official), Bambara 80%, numerous African languages

Malta:
  Maltese (official), English (official)

Man, Isle of:
  English, Manx Gaelic

Marshall Islands:
  English (universally spoken and is the official
  language), two major Marshallese dialects from the Malayo-Polynesian
  family, Japanese

Martinique:
  French, Creole patois

Mauritania:
  Hasaniya Arabic (official), Pular, Soninke, Wolof
  (official), French

Mauritius:
  English (official), Creole, French, Hindi, Urdu, Hakka,
  Bojpoori

Mayotte:
  Mahorian (a Swahili dialect), French (official language)
  spoken by 35% of the population

Mexico:
  Spanish, various Mayan, Nahuatl, and other regional
  indigenous languages

Micronesia, Federated States of:
  English (official and common
  language), Trukese, Pohnpeian, Yapese, Kosrean

Moldova:
  Moldovan (official, virtually the same as the Romanian
  language), Russian, Gagauz (a Turkish dialect)

Monaco:
  French (official), English, Italian, Monegasque

Mongolia:
  Khalkha Mongol 90%, Turkic, Russian (1999)

Montserrat:
  English

Morocco:
  Arabic (official), Berber dialects, French often the
  language of business, government, and diplomacy

Mozambique:
  Portuguese (official), indigenous dialects

Namibia:
  English 7% (official), Afrikaans common language of most of
  the population and about 60% of the white population, German 32%,
  indigenous languages: Oshivambo, Herero, Nama

Nauru:
  Nauruan (official, a distinct Pacific Island language),
  English widely understood, spoken, and used for most government and
  commercial purposes

Nepal:
  Nepali (official; spoken by 90% of the population), about a
  dozen other languages and about 30 major dialects; note - many in
  government and business also speak English (1995)

Netherlands:
  Dutch

Netherlands Antilles:
  Dutch (official), Papiamento (a
  Spanish-Portuguese-Dutch-English dialect) predominates, English
  widely spoken, Spanish

New Caledonia:
  French (official), 33 Melanesian-Polynesian dialects

New Zealand:
  English (official), Maori

Nicaragua:
  Spanish (official)

  note:  English and indigenous languages on Atlantic coast

Niger:
  French (official), Hausa, Djerma

Nigeria:
  English (official), Hausa, Yoruba, Igbo (Ibo), Fulani

Niue:
  Polynesian closely related to Tongan and Samoan, English

Norfolk Island:
  English (official), Norfolk a mixture of 18th
  century English and ancient Tahitian

Northern Mariana Islands:
  English, Chamorro, Carolinian

  note:  86% of population speaks a language other than English at home

Norway:
  Norwegian (official)

  note:  small Sami- and Finnish-speaking minorities

Oman:
  Arabic (official), English, Baluchi, Urdu, Indian dialects

Pakistan:
  Punjabi 48%, Sindhi 12%, Siraiki (a Punjabi variant) 10%,
  Pashtu 8%, Urdu (official) 8%, Balochi 3%, Hindko 2%, Brahui 1%,
  English (official and lingua franca of Pakistani elite and most
  government ministries), Burushaski, and other 8%

Palau:
  English and Palauan official in all states except Sonsoral
  (Sonsorolese and English are official), Tobi (Tobi and English are
  official), and Angaur (Angaur, Japanese, and English are official)

Panama:
  Spanish (official), English 14%

  note:  many Panamanians bilingual

Papua New Guinea:
  English spoken by 1%-2%, pidgin English
  widespread, Motu spoken in Papua region

  note:  715 indigenous languages

Paraguay:
  Spanish (official), Guarani (official)

Peru:
  Spanish (official), Quechua (official), Aymara

Philippines:
  two official languages - Filipino (based on Tagalog)
  and English, eight major dialects - Tagalog, Cebuano, Ilocan,
  Hiligaynon or Ilonggo, Bicol, Waray, Pampango, and Pangasinense

Pitcairn Islands:
  English (official), Pitcairnese (mixture of an
  18th century English dialect and a Tahitian dialect)

Poland:
  Polish

Portugal:
  Portuguese

Puerto Rico:
  Spanish, English

Qatar:
  Arabic (official), English commonly used as a second language

Reunion:
  French (official), Creole widely used

Romania:
  Romanian, Hungarian, German

Russia:
  Russian, other

Rwanda:
  Kinyarwanda (official) universal Bantu vernacular, French
  (official), English (official), Kiswahili (Swahili) used in
  commercial centers

Saint Helena:
  English

Saint Kitts and Nevis:
  English

Saint Lucia:
  English (official), French patois

Saint Pierre and Miquelon:
  French

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:
  English, French patois

Samoa:
  Samoan (Polynesian), English

San Marino:
  Italian

Sao Tome and Principe:
  Portuguese (official)

Saudi Arabia:
  Arabic

Senegal:
  French (official), Wolof, Pulaar, Jola, Mandinka

Seychelles:
  English (official), French (official), Creole

Sierra Leone:
  English (official, regular use limited to literate
  minority), Mende (principal vernacular in the south), Temne
  (principal vernacular in the north), Krio (English-based Creole,
  spoken by the descendants of freed Jamaican slaves who were settled
  in the Freetown area, a lingua franca and a first language for 10%
  of the population but understood by 95%)

Singapore:
  Chinese (official), Malay (official and national), Tamil
  (official), English (official)

Slovakia:
  Slovak (official), Hungarian

Slovenia:
  Slovenian 91%, Serbo-Croatian 6%, other 3%

Solomon Islands:
  Melanesian pidgin in much of the country is lingua
  franca, English spoken by 1%-2% of population

  note:  120 indigenous languages

Somalia:
  Somali (official), Arabic, Italian, English

South Africa:
  11 official languages, including Afrikaans, English,
  Ndebele, Pedi, Sotho, Swazi, Tsonga, Tswana, Venda, Xhosa, Zulu

Spain:
  Castilian Spanish (official) 74%, Catalan 17%, Galician 7%,
  Basque 2%

Sri Lanka:
  Sinhala (official and national language) 74%, Tamil
  (national language) 18%, other 8%

  note:  English is commonly used in government and is spoken
  competently by about 10% of the population

Sudan:
  Arabic (official), Nubian, Ta Bedawie, diverse dialects of
  Nilotic, Nilo-Hamitic, Sudanic languages, English

  note:  program of "Arabization" in process

Suriname:
  Dutch (official), English (widely spoken), Sranang Tongo
  (Surinamese, sometimes called Taki-Taki, is native language of
  Creoles and much of the younger population and is lingua franca
  among others), Hindustani (a dialect of Hindi), Javanese

Svalbard:
  Russian, Norwegian

Swaziland:
  English (official, government business conducted in
  English), siSwati (official)

Sweden:
  Swedish

  note:  small Lapp- and Finnish-speaking minorities

Switzerland:
  German (official) 63.7%, French (official) 19.2%,
  Italian (official) 7.6%, Romansch 0.6%, other 8.9%

Syria:
  Arabic (official); Kurdish, Armenian, Aramaic, Circassian
  widely understood; French, English somewhat understood

Tajikistan:
  Tajik (official), Russian widely used in government and
  business

Tanzania:
  Kiswahili or Swahili (official), Kiunguju (name for
  Swahili in Zanzibar), English (official, primary language of
  commerce, administration, and higher education), Arabic (widely
  spoken in Zanzibar), many local languages

  note:  Kiswahili (Swahili) is the mother tongue of the Bantu people
  living in Zanzibar and nearby coastal Tanzania; although Kiswahili
  is Bantu in structure and origin, its vocabulary draws on a variety
  of sources, including Arabic and English, and it has become the
  lingua franca of central and eastern Africa; the first language of
  most people is one of the local languages

Thailand:
  Thai, English (secondary language of the elite), ethnic
  and regional dialects

Togo:
  French (official and the language of commerce), Ewe and Mina
  (the two major African languages in the south), Kabye (sometimes
  spelled Kabiye) and Dagomba (the two major African languages in the
  north)

Tokelau:
  Tokelauan (a Polynesian language), English

Tonga:
  Tongan, English

Trinidad and Tobago:
  English (official), Hindi, French, Spanish,
  Chinese

Tunisia:
  Arabic (official and one of the languages of commerce),
  French (commerce)

Turkey:
  Turkish (official), Kurdish, Arabic, Armenian, Greek

Turkmenistan:
  Turkmen 72%, Russian 12%, Uzbek 9%, other 7%

Turks and Caicos Islands:
  English (official)

Tuvalu:
  Tuvaluan, English

Uganda:
  English (official national language, taught in grade
  schools, used in courts of law and by most newspapers and some radio
  broadcasts), Ganda or Luganda (most widely used of the Niger-Congo
  languages, preferred for native language publications in the capital
  and may be taught in school), other Niger-Congo languages,
  Nilo-Saharan languages, Swahili, Arabic

Ukraine:
  Ukrainian, Russian, Romanian, Polish, Hungarian

United Arab Emirates:
  Arabic (official), Persian, English, Hindi,
  Urdu

United Kingdom:
  English, Welsh (about 26% of the population of
  Wales), Scottish form of Gaelic (about 60,000 in Scotland)

United States:
  English, Spanish (spoken by a sizable minority)

Uruguay:
  Spanish, Portunol, or Brazilero (Portuguese-Spanish mix on
  the Brazilian frontier)

Uzbekistan:
  Uzbek 74.3%, Russian 14.2%, Tajik 4.4%, other 7.1%

Vanuatu:
  English (official), French (official), pidgin (known as
  Bislama or Bichelama)

Venezuela:
  Spanish (official), numerous indigenous dialects

Vietnam:
  Vietnamese (official), English (increasingly favored as a
  second language), some French, Chinese, and Khmer; mountain area
  languages (Mon-Khmer and Malayo-Polynesian)

Virgin Islands:
  English (official), Spanish, Creole

Wallis and Futuna:
  French, Wallisian (indigenous Polynesian language)

West Bank:
  Arabic, Hebrew (spoken by Israeli settlers and many
  Palestinians), English (widely understood)

Western Sahara:
  Hassaniya Arabic, Moroccan Arabic

Yemen:
  Arabic

Yugoslavia:
  Serbian 95%, Albanian 5%

Zambia:
  English (official), major vernaculars - Bemba, Kaonda, Lozi,
  Lunda, Luvale, Nyanja, Tonga, and about 70 other indigenous languages

Zimbabwe:
  English (official), Shona, Sindebele (the language of the
  Ndebele, sometimes called Ndebele), numerous but minor tribal
  dialects

Taiwan:
  Mandarin Chinese (official), Taiwanese (Min), Hakka dialects

======================================================================

@Legal system



Afghanistan:
  a new legal system has not been adopted but all
  factions tacitly agree they will follow Shari'a (Islamic law)

Albania:
  has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Algeria:
  socialist, based on French and Islamic law; judicial review
  of legislative acts in ad hoc Constitutional Council composed of
  various public officials, including several Supreme Court justices;
  has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

American Samoa:
  NA

Andorra:
  based on French and Spanish civil codes; no judicial review
  of legislative acts; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Angola:
  based on Portuguese civil law system and customary law;
  recently modified to accommodate political pluralism and increased
  use of free markets

Anguilla:
  based on English common law

Antarctica:
  Antarctica is administered through meetings of the
  consultative member nations. Decisions from these meetings are
  carried out by these member nations (within their areas) in
  accordance with their own national laws. US law, including certain
  criminal offenses by or against US nationals, such as murder, may
  apply extra-territorially. Some US laws directly apply to
  Antarctica. For example, the Antarctic Conservation Act, 16 U.S.C.
  section 2401 et seq., provides civil and criminal penalties for the
  following activities, unless authorized by regulation of statute:
  the taking of native mammals or birds; the introduction of
  nonindigenous plants and animals; entry into specially protected
  areas; the discharge or disposal of pollutants; and the importation
  into the US of certain items from Antarctica. Violation of the
  Antarctic Conservation Act carries penalties of up to $10,000 in
  fines and one year in prison. The National Science Foundation and
  Department of Justice share enforcement responsibilities. Public Law
  95-541, the US Antarctic Conservation Act of 1978, as amended in
  1996, requires expeditions from the US to Antarctica to notify, in
  advance, the Office of Oceans and Polar Affairs, Room 5801,
  Department of State, Washington, DC 20520, which reports such plans
  to other nations as required by the Antarctic Treaty. For more
  information, contact Permit Office, Office of Polar Programs,
  National Science Foundation, Arlington, Virginia 22230; telephone:
  (703) 292-8030, or see their website at www.nsf.gov.

Antigua and Barbuda:
  based on English common law

Argentina:
  mixture of US and West European legal systems; has not
  accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Armenia:
  based on civil law system

Aruba:
  based on Dutch civil law system, with some English common law
  influence

Ashmore and Cartier Islands:
  the laws of the Northern Territory of
  Australia, where applicable, apply

Australia:
  based on English common law; accepts compulsory ICJ
  jurisdiction, with reservations

Austria:
  civil law system with Roman law origin; judicial review of
  legislative acts by the Constitutional Court; separate
  administrative and civil/penal supreme courts; has not accepted
  compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Azerbaijan:
  based on civil law system

Bahamas, The:
  based on English common law

Bahrain:
  based on Islamic law and English common law

Baker Island:
  the laws of the US, where applicable, apply

Bangladesh:
  based on English common law

Barbados:
  English common law; no judicial review of legislative acts

Bassas da India:
  the laws of France, where applicable, apply

Belarus:
  based on civil law system

Belgium:
  civil law system influenced by English constitutional
  theory; judicial review of legislative acts; accepts compulsory ICJ
  jurisdiction, with reservations

Belize:
  English law

Benin:
  based on French civil law and customary law; has not accepted
  compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Bermuda:
  English law

Bhutan:
  based on Indian law and English common law; has not accepted
  compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Bolivia:
  based on Spanish law and Napoleonic Code; has not accepted
  compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  based on civil law system

Botswana:
  based on Roman-Dutch law and local customary law; judicial
  review limited to matters of interpretation; has not accepted
  compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Bouvet Island:
  the laws of Norway, where applicable, apply

Brazil:
  based on Roman codes; has not accepted compulsory ICJ
  jurisdiction

British Indian Ocean Territory:
  the laws of the UK, where
  applicable, apply

British Virgin Islands:
  English law

Brunei:
  based on English common law; for Muslims, Islamic Shari'a
  law supersedes civil law in a number of areas

Bulgaria:
  civil law and criminal law based on Roman law; accepts
  compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Burkina Faso:
  based on French civil law system and customary law

Burma:
  has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Burundi:
  based on German and Belgian civil codes and customary law;
  has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Cambodia:
  primarily a civil law mixture of French-influenced codes
  from the United Nations Transitional Authority in Cambodia (UNTAC)
  period, royal decrees, and acts of the legislature, with influences
  of customary law and remnants of communist legal theory; increasing
  influence of common law in recent years

Cameroon:
  based on French civil law system, with common law
  influence; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Canada:
  based on English common law, except in Quebec, where civil
  law system based on French law prevails; accepts compulsory ICJ
  jurisdiction, with reservations

Cape Verde:
  derived from the legal system of Portugal

Cayman Islands:
  British common law and local statutes

Central African Republic:
  based on French law

Chad:
  based on French civil law system and Chadian customary law;
  has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Chile:
  based on Code of 1857 derived from Spanish law and subsequent
  codes influenced by French and Austrian law; judicial review of
  legislative acts in the Supreme Court; has not accepted compulsory
  ICJ jurisdiction

China:
  a complex amalgam of custom and statute, largely criminal
  law; rudimentary civil code in effect since 1 January 1987; new
  legal codes in effect since 1 January 1980; continuing efforts are
  being made to improve civil, administrative, criminal, and
  commercial law

Christmas Island:
  under the authority of the governor general of
  Australia and Australian law

Clipperton Island:
  the laws of France, where applicable, apply

Cocos (Keeling) Islands:
  based upon the laws of Australia and local
  laws

Colombia:
  based on Spanish law; a new criminal code modeled after US
  procedures was enacted in 1992-93; judicial review of executive and
  legislative acts; accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction, with
  reservations

Comoros:
  French and Muslim law in a new consolidated code

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  based on Belgian civil law system
  and tribal law; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Congo, Republic of the:
  based on French civil law system and
  customary law

Cook Islands:
  based on New Zealand law and English common law

Coral Sea Islands:
  the laws of Australia, where applicable, apply

Costa Rica:
  based on Spanish civil law system; judicial review of
  legislative acts in the Supreme Court; has accepted compulsory ICJ
  jurisdiction

Cote d'Ivoire:
  based on French civil law system and customary law;
  judicial review in the Constitutional Chamber of the Supreme Court;
  has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Croatia:
  based on civil law system

Cuba:
  based on Spanish and American law, with large elements of
  Communist legal theory; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Cyprus:
  based on common law, with civil law modifications

Czech Republic:
  civil law system based on Austro-Hungarian codes;
  has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction; legal code modified to
  bring it in line with Organization on Security and Cooperation in
  Europe (OSCE) obligations and to expunge Marxist-Leninist legal
  theory

Denmark:
  civil law system; judicial review of legislative acts;
  accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction, with reservations

Djibouti:
  based on French civil law system, traditional practices,
  and Islamic law

Dominica:
  based on English common law

Dominican Republic:
  based on French civil codes

Ecuador:
  based on civil law system; has not accepted compulsory ICJ
  jurisdiction

Egypt:
  based on English common law, Islamic law, and Napoleonic
  codes; judicial review by Supreme Court and Council of State
  (oversees validity of administrative decisions); accepts compulsory
  ICJ jurisdiction, with reservations

El Salvador:
  based on civil and Roman law, with traces of common
  law; judicial review of legislative acts in the Supreme Court;
  accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction, with reservations

Equatorial Guinea:
  partly based on Spanish civil law and tribal
  custom

Eritrea:
  operates on the basis of transitional laws that incorporate
  pre-independence statutes of the Eritrean People's Liberation Front,
  revised Ethiopian laws, customary laws, and post independence
  enacted laws

Estonia:
  based on civil law system; no judicial review of
  legislative acts

Ethiopia:
  currently transitional mix of national and regional courts

Europa Island:
  the laws of France, where applicable, apply

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas):
  English common law

Faroe Islands:
  Danish

Fiji:
  based on British system

Finland:
  civil law system based on Swedish law; Supreme Court may
  request legislation interpreting or modifying laws; accepts
  compulsory ICJ jurisdiction, with reservations

France:
  civil law system with indigenous concepts; review of
  administrative but not legislative acts

French Guiana:
  French legal system

French Polynesia:
  based on French system

French Southern and Antarctic Lands:
  the laws of France, where
  applicable, apply

Gabon:
  based on French civil law system and customary law; judicial
  review of legislative acts in Constitutional Chamber of the Supreme
  Court; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Gambia, The:
  based on a composite of English common law, Koranic
  law, and customary law; accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction, with
  reservations

Georgia:
  based on civil law system

Germany:
  civil law system with indigenous concepts; judicial review
  of legislative acts in the Federal Constitutional Court; has not
  accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Ghana:
  based on English common law and customary law; has not
  accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Gibraltar:
  English law

Glorioso Islands:
  the laws of France, where applicable, apply

Greece:
  based on codified Roman law; judiciary divided into civil,
  criminal, and administrative courts

Greenland:
  Danish

Grenada:
  based on English common law

Guadeloupe:
  French legal system

Guam:
  modeled on US; US federal laws apply

Guatemala:
  civil law system; judicial review of legislative acts;
  has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Guernsey:
  English law and local statute; justice is administered by
  the Royal Court

Guinea:
  based on French civil law system, customary law, and decree;
  legal codes currently being revised; has not accepted compulsory ICJ
  jurisdiction

Guinea-Bissau:
  NA

Guyana:
  based on English common law with certain admixtures of
  Roman-Dutch law; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Haiti:
  based on Roman civil law system; accepts compulsory ICJ
  jurisdiction

Heard Island and McDonald Islands:
  the laws of Australia, where
  applicable, apply

Holy See (Vatican City):
  NA

Honduras:
  rooted in Roman and Spanish civil law with increasing
  influence of English common law; recent judicial reforms include
  abandoning Napoleonic legal codes in favor of the oral adversarial
  system; accepts ICJ jurisdiction, with reservations

Hong Kong:
  based on English common law

Howland Island:
  the laws of the US, where applicable, apply

Hungary:
  rule of law based on Western model

Iceland:
  civil law system based on Danish law; has not accepted
  compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

India:
  based on English common law; limited judicial review of
  legislative acts; accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction, with
  reservations

Indonesia:
  based on Roman-Dutch law, substantially modified by
  indigenous concepts and by new criminal procedures code; has not
  accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Iran:
  the Constitution codifies Islamic principles of government

Iraq:
  based on Islamic law in special religious courts, civil law
  system elsewhere; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Ireland:
  based on English common law, substantially modified by
  indigenous concepts; judicial review of legislative acts in Supreme
  Court; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Israel:
  mixture of English common law, British Mandate regulations,
  and, in personal matters, Jewish, Christian, and Muslim legal
  systems; in December 1985, Israel informed the UN Secretariat that
  it would no longer accept compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Italy:
  based on civil law system; appeals treated as new trials;
  judicial review under certain conditions in Constitutional Court;
  has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Jamaica:
  based on English common law; has not accepted compulsory
  ICJ jurisdiction

Jan Mayen:
  the laws of Norway, where applicable, apply

Japan:
  modeled after European civil law system with English-American
  influence; judicial review of legislative acts in the Supreme Court;
  accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction, with reservations

Jarvis Island:
  the laws of the US, where applicable, apply

Jersey:
  English law and local statute

Johnston Atoll:
  the laws of the US, where applicable, apply

Jordan:
  based on Islamic law and French codes; judicial review of
  legislative acts in a specially provided High Tribunal; has not
  accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Juan de Nova Island:
  the laws of France, where applicable, apply

Kazakhstan:
  based on civil law system

Kenya:
  based on English common law, tribal law, and Islamic law;
  judicial review in High Court; accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction,
  with reservations; constitutional amendment of 1982 making Kenya a
  de jure one-party state repealed in 1991

Kingman Reef:
  the laws of the US, where applicable, apply

Kiribati:
  NA

Korea, North:
  based on German civil law system with Japanese
  influences and Communist legal theory; no judicial review of
  legislative acts; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Korea, South:
  combines elements of continental European civil law
  systems, Anglo-American law, and Chinese classical thought

Kuwait:
  civil law system with Islamic law significant in personal
  matters; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Kyrgyzstan:
  based on civil law system

Laos:
  based on traditional customs, French legal norms and
  procedures, and Socialist practice

Latvia:
  based on civil law system

Lebanon:
  mixture of Ottoman law, canon law, Napoleonic code, and
  civil law; no judicial review of legislative acts; has not accepted
  compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Lesotho:
  based on English common law and Roman-Dutch law; judicial
  review of legislative acts in High Court and Court of Appeal; has
  not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Liberia:
  dual system of statutory law based on Anglo-American common
  law for the modern sector and customary law based on unwritten
  tribal practices for indigenous sector

Libya:
  based on Italian civil law system and Islamic law; separate
  religious courts; no constitutional provision for judicial review of
  legislative acts; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Liechtenstein:
  local civil and penal codes; accepts compulsory ICJ
  jurisdiction, with reservations

Lithuania:
  based on civil law system; no judicial review of
  legislative acts

Luxembourg:
  based on civil law system; accepts compulsory ICJ
  jurisdiction

Macau:
  based on Portuguese civil law system

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  based on civil law
  system; judicial review of legislative acts

Madagascar:
  based on French civil law system and traditional
  Malagasy law; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Malawi:
  based on English common law and customary law; judicial
  review of legislative acts in the Supreme Court of Appeal; has not
  accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Malaysia:
  based on English common law; judicial review of
  legislative acts in the Supreme Court at request of supreme head of
  the federation; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Maldives:
  based on Islamic law with admixtures of English common law
  primarily in commercial matters; has not accepted compulsory ICJ
  jurisdiction

Mali:
  based on French civil law system and customary law; judicial
  review of legislative acts in Constitutional Court (which was
  formally established on 9 March 1994); has not accepted compulsory
  ICJ jurisdiction

Malta:
  based on English common law and Roman civil law; accepts
  compulsory ICJ jurisdiction, with reservations

Man, Isle of:
  English common law and Manx statute

Marshall Islands:
  based on adapted Trust Territory laws, acts of the
  legislature, municipal, common, and customary laws

Martinique:
  French legal system

Mauritania:
  a combination of Shari'a (Islamic law) and French civil
  law

Mauritius:
  based on French civil law system with elements of English
  common law in certain areas

Mayotte:
  French law

Mexico:
  mixture of US constitutional theory and civil law system;
  judicial review of legislative acts; accepts compulsory ICJ
  jurisdiction, with reservations

Micronesia, Federated States of:
  based on adapted Trust Territory
  laws, acts of the legislature, municipal, common, and customary laws

Midway Islands:
  the laws of the US, where applicable, apply

Moldova:
  based on civil law system; Constitutional Court reviews
  legality of legislative acts and governmental decisions of
  resolution; it is unclear if Moldova accepts compulsory ICJ
  jurisdiction but accepts many UN and Organization for Security and
  Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) documents

Monaco:
  based on French law; has not accepted compulsory ICJ
  jurisdiction

Mongolia:
  blend of Russian, Chinese, Turkish, and Western systems of
  law that combines aspects of a parliamentary system with some
  aspects of a presidential system; constitution ambiguous on judicial
  review of legislative acts; has not accepted compulsory ICJ
  jurisdiction

Montserrat:
  English common law and statutory law

Morocco:
  based on Islamic law and French and Spanish civil law
  system; judicial review of legislative acts in Constitutional
  Chamber of Supreme Court

Mozambique:
  based on Portuguese civil law system and customary law

Namibia:
  based on Roman-Dutch law and 1990 constitution

Nauru:
  acts of the Nauru Parliament and British common law

Navassa Island:
  the laws of the US, where applicable, apply

Nepal:
  based on Hindu legal concepts and English common law; has not
  accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Netherlands:
  civil law system incorporating French penal theory;
  constitution does not permit judicial review of acts of the States
  General; accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction, with reservations

Netherlands Antilles:
  based on Dutch civil law system, with some
  English common law influence

New Caledonia:
  the 1988 Matignon Accords grant substantial autonomy
  to the islands; formerly under French law

New Zealand:
  based on English law, with special land legislation and
  land courts for Maoris; accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction, with
  reservations

Nicaragua:
  civil law system; Supreme Court may review administrative
  acts

Niger:
  based on French civil law system and customary law; has not
  accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Nigeria:
  based on English common law, Islamic Shariah law (only in
  some northern states), and traditional law

Niue:
  English common law

Norfolk Island:
  based on the laws of Australia, local ordinances and
  acts; English common law applies in matters not covered by either
  Australian or Norfolk Island law

Northern Mariana Islands:
  based on US system, except for customs,
  wages, immigration laws, and taxation

Norway:
  mixture of customary law, civil law system, and common law
  traditions; Supreme Court renders advisory opinions to legislature
  when asked; accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction, with reservations

Oman:
  based on English common law and Islamic law; ultimate appeal
  to the monarch; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Pakistan:
  based on English common law with provisions to accommodate
  Pakistan's status as an Islamic state; accepts compulsory ICJ
  jurisdiction, with reservations

Palau:
  based on Trust Territory laws, acts of the legislature,
  municipal, common, and customary laws

Palmyra Atoll:
  the laws of the US, where applicable, apply

Panama:
  based on civil law system; judicial review of legislative
  acts in the Supreme Court of Justice; accepts compulsory ICJ
  jurisdiction, with reservations

Papua New Guinea:
  based on English common law

Paraguay:
  based on Argentine codes, Roman law, and French codes;
  judicial review of legislative acts in Supreme Court of Justice

Peru:
  based on civil law system; has not accepted compulsory ICJ
  jurisdiction

Philippines:
  based on Spanish and Anglo-American law; accepts
  compulsory ICJ jurisdiction, with reservations

Pitcairn Islands:
  local island by-laws

Poland:
  mixture of Continental (Napoleonic) civil law and holdover
  communist legal theory; changes being gradually introduced as part
  of broader democratization process; limited judicial review of
  legislative acts although under the new constitution, the
  Constitutional Tribunal ruling will become final as of October 1999;
  court decisions can be appealed to the European Court of Justice in
  Strasbourg

Portugal:
  civil law system; the Constitutional Tribunal reviews the
  constitutionality of legislation; accepts compulsory ICJ
  jurisdiction, with reservations

Puerto Rico:
  based on Spanish civil code

Qatar:
  discretionary system of law controlled by the amir, although
  civil codes are being implemented; Islamic law is significant in
  personal matters

Reunion:
  French law

Romania:
  former mixture of civil law system and communist legal
  theory; is now based on the constitution of France's Fifth Republic

Russia:
  based on civil law system; judicial review of legislative
  acts

Rwanda:
  based on German and Belgian civil law systems and customary
  law; judicial review of legislative acts in the Supreme Court; has
  not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Saint Helena:
  NA

Saint Kitts and Nevis:
  based on English common law

Saint Lucia:
  based on English common law

Saint Pierre and Miquelon:
  French law with special adaptations for
  local conditions, such as housing and taxation

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:
  based on English common law

Samoa:
  based on English common law and local customs; judicial
  review of legislative acts with respect to fundamental rights of the
  citizen; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

San Marino:
  based on civil law system with Italian law influences;
  has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Sao Tome and Principe:
  based on Portuguese legal system and
  customary law; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Saudi Arabia:
  based on Islamic law, several secular codes have been
  introduced; commercial disputes handled by special committees; has
  not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Senegal:
  based on French civil law system; judicial review of
  legislative acts in Constitutional Court; the Council of State
  audits the government's accounting office; has not accepted
  compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Seychelles:
  based on English common law, French civil law, and
  customary law

Sierra Leone:
  based on English law and customary laws indigenous to
  local tribes; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Singapore:
  based on English common law; has not accepted compulsory
  ICJ jurisdiction

Slovakia:
  civil law system based on Austro-Hungarian codes; has not
  accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction; legal code modified to comply
  with the obligations of Organization on Security and Cooperation in
  Europe (OSCE) and to expunge Marxist-Leninist legal theory

Slovenia:
  based on civil law system

Solomon Islands:
  English common law

Somalia:
  NA

South Africa:
  based on Roman-Dutch law and English common law;
  accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction, with reservations

South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands:
  the laws of the UK,
  where applicable, apply

Spain:
  civil law system, with regional applications; has not
  accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Sri Lanka:
  a highly complex mixture of English common law,
  Roman-Dutch, Muslim, Sinhalese, and customary law; has not accepted
  compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Sudan:
  based on English common law and Islamic law; as of 20 January
  1991, the now defunct Revolutionary Command Council imposed Islamic
  law in the northern states; Islamic law applies to all residents of
  the northern states regardless of their religion; some separate
  religious courts; accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction, with
  reservations

Suriname:
  based on Dutch legal system incorporating French penal
  theory

Svalbard:
  NA

Swaziland:
  based on South African Roman-Dutch law in statutory
  courts and Swazi traditional law and custom in traditional courts;
  has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Sweden:
  civil law system influenced by customary law; accepts
  compulsory ICJ jurisdiction, with reservations

Switzerland:
  civil law system influenced by customary law; judicial
  review of legislative acts, except with respect to federal decrees
  of general obligatory character; accepts compulsory ICJ
  jurisdiction, with reservations

Syria:
  based on Islamic law and civil law system; special religious
  courts; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Tajikistan:
  based on civil law system; no judicial review of
  legislative acts

Tanzania:
  based on English common law; judicial review of
  legislative acts limited to matters of interpretation; has not
  accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Thailand:
  based on civil law system, with influences of common law;
  has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Togo:
  French-based court system

Tokelau:
  British and local statutes

Tonga:
  based on English law

Trinidad and Tobago:
  based on English common law; judicial review of
  legislative acts in the Supreme Court; has not accepted compulsory
  ICJ jurisdiction

Tromelin Island:
  the laws of France, where applicable, apply

Tunisia:
  based on French civil law system and Islamic law; some
  judicial review of legislative acts in the Supreme Court in joint
  session

Turkey:
  derived from various European continental legal systems;
  accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction, with reservations

Turkmenistan:
  based on civil law system

Turks and Caicos Islands:
  based on laws of England and Wales, with a
  small number adopted from Jamaica and The Bahamas

Tuvalu:
  NA

Uganda:
  in 1995, the government restored the legal system to one
  based on English common law and customary law; accepts compulsory
  ICJ jurisdiction, with reservations

Ukraine:
  based on civil law system; judicial review of legislative
  acts

United Arab Emirates:
  federal court system introduced in 1971; all
  emirates except Dubayy (Dubai) and Ra's al Khaymah have joined the
  federal system; all emirates have secular and Islamic law for civil,
  criminal, and high courts

United Kingdom:
  common law tradition with early Roman and modern
  continental influences; no judicial review of Acts of Parliament;
  accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction, with reservations; British
  courts and legislation are increasingly subject to review by
  European Union courts

United States:
  based on English common law; judicial review of
  legislative acts; accepts compulsory ICJ jurisdiction, with
  reservations

Uruguay:
  based on Spanish civil law system; accepts compulsory ICJ
  jurisdiction

Uzbekistan:
  evolution of Soviet civil law; still lacks independent
  judicial system

Vanuatu:
  unified system being created from former dual French and
  British systems

Venezuela:
  based on organic laws as of July 1999; open, adversarial
  court system; has not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Vietnam:
  based on communist legal theory and French civil law system

Virgin Islands:
  based on US laws

Wake Island:
  the laws of the US, where applicable, apply

Wallis and Futuna:
  French legal system

World:
  all members of the UN plus Switzerland are parties to the
  statute that established the International Court of Justice (ICJ) or
  World Court

Yemen:
  based on Islamic law, Turkish law, English common law, and
  local tribal customary law; has not accepted compulsory ICJ
  jurisdiction

Yugoslavia:
  based on civil law system

Zambia:
  based on English common law and customary law; judicial
  review of legislative acts in an ad hoc constitutional council; has
  not accepted compulsory ICJ jurisdiction

Zimbabwe:
  mixture of Roman-Dutch and English common law

Taiwan:
  based on civil law system; accepts compulsory ICJ
  jurisdiction, with reservations

======================================================================

@Legislative branch



Afghanistan:
  non-functioning as of June 1993

Albania:
  unicameral People's Assembly or Kuvendi Popullor (155
  seats; most members are elected by direct popular vote and some by
  proportional vote for four-year terms)

  elections:  last held 29 June 1997 (next held 24 June 2001, 2nd
  round 8 July 2001)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - PS 53.36%, PD 25.33%,
  PSD 2.5%, PBDNJ 2.78%, PBK 2.36%, PAD 2.85%, PR 2.25%, PLL 3.09%,
  PDK 1.00%, PBSD 0.84%; seats by party - PS 101, PD 27, PSD 8, PBDNJ
  4, PBK 3, PAD 2, PR 2, PLL 2, PDK 1, PBSD 1, PUK 1, independents 3

Algeria:
  bicameral Parliament consists of the National People's
  Assembly or Al-Majlis Ech-Chaabi Al-Watani (380 seats; members
  elected by popular vote to serve five-year terms) and the Council of
  Nations (144 seats; one-third of the members appointed by the
  president, two-thirds elected by indirect vote; members serve
  six-year terms; the constitution requires half the council to be
  renewed every three years)

  elections:  National People's Assembly - last held 5 June 1997 (next
  to be held NA 2002); Council of Nations - last held 30 December 2000
  (next to be held NA 2003)

  election results:  National People's Assembly - percent of vote by
  party - RND 40.8%, MSP 18.2%, FLN 16.8%, Nahda Movement 8.9%, FFS
  5%, RCD 5%, PT 1.1%, Progressive Republican Party 0.8%, Union for
  Democracy and Liberty 0.3%, Social Liberal Party 0.3%, independents
  2.8%; seats by party - RND 155, MSP 69, FLN 64, Nahda Movement 34,
  FFS 19, RCD 19, PT 4, Progressive Republican Party 3, Union for
  Democracy and Liberty 1, Social Liberal Party 1, independents 11;
  Council of Nations - percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party
  - RND 79, FLN 12, FFS 4, MSP 1 (remaining 48 seats appointed by the
  president, party breakdown NA)

American Samoa:
  bicameral Fono or Legislative Assembly consists of
  the House of Representatives (21 seats - 20 of which are elected by
  popular vote and 1 is an appointed, nonvoting delegate from Swains
  Island; members serve two-year terms) and the Senate (18 seats;
  members are elected from local chiefs and serve four-year terms)

  elections:  House of Representatives - last held 7 November 2000
  (next to be held NA November 2002); Senate - last held 7 November
  2000 (next to be held NA November 2004)

  election results:  House of Representatives - percent of vote by
  party - NA%; seats by party - NA; Senate - percent of vote by party
  - NA%; seats by party - NA; note - only independents elected

  note:  American Samoa elects one delegate to the US House of
  Representatives; election last held 7 November 2000 (next to be held
  NA November 2002); results - Eni F. H. FALEOMAVAEGA (Democrat)
  reelected as delegate for a sixth term

Andorra:
  unicameral General Council of the Valleys or Consell
  General de las Valls (28 seats; members are elected by direct
  popular vote, 14 from a single national constituency and 14 to
  represent each of the 7 parishes; members serve four-year terms)

  elections:  last held 16 February 1997 (next to be held NA February
  2001)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - UL 57%, AND 21%, IDN
  7%, ND 7%, other 8%; seats by party - UL 16, AND 6, ND 2, IDN 2, UPO
  2

Angola:
  unicameral National Assembly or Assembleia Nacional (220
  seats; members elected by proportional vote to serve four-year terms)

  elections:  last held 29-30 September 1992 (next to be held NA)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - MPLA 54%, UNITA 34%,
  others 12%; seats by party - MPLA 129, UNITA 70, PRS 6, FNLA 5, PLD
  3, others 7

Anguilla:
  unicameral House of Assembly (11 seats total, 7 elected by
  direct popular vote, 2 ex officio members and 2 appointed; members
  serve five-year terms)

  elections:  last held 3 March 2000 (next to be held NA March 2005)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
  UF 4, AUM 2, independent 1

Antigua and Barbuda:
  bicameral Parliament consists of the Senate
  (17-member body appointed by the governor general) and the House of
  Representatives (17 seats; members are elected by proportional
  representation to serve five-year terms)

  elections:  House of Representatives - last held 9 March 1999 (next
  to be held NA March 2004)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
  ALP 12, UPP 4, independent 1

Argentina:
  bicameral National Congress or Congreso Nacional consists
  of the Senate (72 seats; formerly, three members appointed by each
  of the provincial legislatures; presently transitioning to one-third
  of the members being elected every two years to six-year terms) and
  the Chamber of Deputies (257 seats; one-half of the members elected
  every two years to four-year terms)

  elections:  Senate - transition phase will begin in the 2001
  elections when all seats will be fully contested; winners will
  randomly draw to determine whether they will serve a two-year,
  four-year, or full six-year term, beginning a rotating cycle
  renovating one-third of the body every two years; Chamber of
  Deputies - last held 24 October 1999 (next to be held NA October
  2001)

  election results:  Senate - percent of vote by bloc or party - NA%;
  seats by bloc or party - Peronist 40, UCR 20, Frepaso 1, other 11;
  Chamber of Deputies - percent of vote by bloc or party - NA%; seats
  by bloc or party - Alliance 124 (UCR 85, Frepaso 36, others 3),
  Peronist 101, AR 12, other 20

Armenia:
  unicameral National Assembly (Parliament) or Azgayin
  Zhoghov (131 seats; members serve four-year terms)

  elections:  last held 30 May 1999 (next to be held in the spring of
  2003)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
  unity bloc 61 (Republican Party 41, People's Party of Armenia 20),
  Stability Group (independent Armenian deputies who have formed a
  bloc) 21, ACP 10, ARF (Dashnak) 8, Law and Unity Party 7, NDU 6,
  Law-Governed Party 6, independents 10, unfilled 2; note - seats by
  party change frequently

Aruba:
  unicameral Legislature or Staten (21 seats; members elected
  by direct, popular vote to serve four-year terms)

  elections:  last held 12 December 1997 (next to be held by NA
  December 2001)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - AVP 43%, MEP 39%, OLA
  9% PPA 4%, ADN 2%, PARA 1%, MAS 0.5%; seats by party - AVP 10, MEP
  9, OLA 2

Australia:
  bicameral Federal Parliament consists of the Senate (76
  seats - 12 from each of the six states and two from each of the two
  territories; one-half of the members elected every three years by
  popular vote to serve six-year terms) and the House of
  Representatives (148 seats; members elected by popular vote on the
  basis of proportional representation to serve three-year terms; no
  state can have fewer than five representatives)

  elections:  Senate - last held 3 October 1998 (next to be held by
  October 2001); House of Representatives - last held 3 October 1998
  (next to be held by October 2001)

  election results:  Senate - percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by
  party - Liberal Party-National Party coalition 35, Australian Labor
  Party 29, Australian Democratic Party 9, Green Party 1, One Nation
  Party 1, independent 1; House of Representatives - percent of vote
  by party - NA%; seats by party - Liberal Party-National Party
  coalition 80, Australian Labor Party 67, independent 1

Austria:
  bicameral Federal Assembly or Bundesversammlung consists of
  Federal Council or Bundesrat (64 members; members represent each of
  the states on the basis of population, but with each state having at
  least three representatives; members serve a four- or six-year term)
  and the National Council or Nationalrat (183 seats; members elected
  by direct popular vote to serve four-year terms)

  elections:  National Council - last held 3 October 1999 (next to be
  held in the fall of 2003)

  election results:  National Council - percent of vote by party -
  SPOe 33.2%, OeVP 26.9%, FPOe 26.9%, Greens 7.4%; seats by party -
  SPOe 65, OeVP 52, FPOe 52, Greens 14

Azerbaijan:
  unicameral National Assembly or Milli Mejlis (125 seats;
  members elected by popular vote to serve five-year terms)

  elections:  last held 4 November 2000 (next to be held NA November
  2005)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
  NAP and allies 108, APF 6, CSP 3, PNIA 2, Musavat Party 2, CPA 2,
  APF "traditionalist" 1, Compatriot Party 1

Bahamas, The:
  bicameral Parliament consists of the Senate (16-member
  body appointed by the governor general upon the advice of the prime
  minister and the opposition leader for five-year terms) and the
  House of Assembly (40 seats; members elected by direct popular vote
  to serve five-year terms)

  elections:  last held 14 March 1997 (next to be held by March 2002)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
  FNM 35, PLP 5

Bahrain:
  unicameral National Assembly was dissolved 26 August 1975
  and legislative powers were assumed by the Cabinet; appointed
  Advisory Council established 16 December 1992; the National Action
  Charter created a bicameral legislature on 23 December 2000;
  approved by referendum of 14 February 2001

Bangladesh:
  unicameral National Parliament or Jatiya Sangsad (330
  seats; 300 elected by popular vote from single territorial
  constituencies, 30 seats reserved for women; members serve five-year
  terms)

  elections:  last held 12 June 1996 (next to be held before 13
  October 2001)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - AL 33.87%, BNP 30.87%;
  seats by party - AL 178, BNP 113, JP 33, JI 3, other 3; note - the
  elections of 12 June 1996 brought to power an Awami League
  government for the first time in twenty-one years; held under a
  neutral, caretaker administration, the elections were characterized
  by a peaceful, orderly process and massive voter turnout, ending a
  bitter two-year impasse between the former BNP and opposition
  parties that had paralyzed National Parliament and led to widespread
  street violence

Barbados:
  bicameral Parliament consists of the Senate (21-member
  body appointed by the governor general) and the House of Assembly
  (28 seats; members are elected by direct popular vote to serve
  five-year terms)

  elections:  House of Assembly - last held 20 January 1999 (next to
  be held by January 2004)

  election results:  House of Assembly - percent of vote by party -
  NA%; seats by party - BLP 26, DLP 2

Belarus:
  bicameral Parliament or Natsionalnoye Sobranie consists of
  the Council of the Republic or Soviet Respubliki (64 seats) and the
  Chamber of Representatives or Palata Pretsaviteley (110 seats)

  elections:  last held October 2000 (next to be held NA)

  election results:  party affiliation data unavailable; under present
  political conditions party designations are meaningless

Belgium:
  bicameral Parliament consists of a Senate or Senaat in
  Dutch, Senat in French (71 seats; 40 members are directly elected by
  popular vote, 31 are indirectly elected; members serve four-year
  terms) and a Chamber of Deputies or Kamer van
  Volksvertegenwoordigers in Dutch, Chambre des Representants in
  French (150 seats; members are directly elected by popular vote on
  the basis of proportional representation to serve four-year terms)

  elections:  Senate and Chamber of Deputies - last held 13 June 1999
  (next to be held in NA 2003)

  election results:  Senate - percent of vote by party - VLD 15.4%,
  CVP 14.7%, PRL 10.6%, PS 9.7%, VB 9.4%, SP 8.9%, ECOLO 7.4%, AGALEV
  7.1%, PSC 6.0%, VU 5.1%; seats by party - VLD 11, CVP 10, PS 10, PRL
  9, VB 6, SP 6, ECOLO 6, AGALEV 5, PSC 5, VU 3; Chamber of Deputies -
  percent of vote by party - VLD 14.3%, CVP 14.1%, PS 10.2%, PRL
  10.1%, VB 9.9%, SP 9.5%, ECOLO 7.4%, AGALEV 7.0%, PSC 5.9%, VU 5.6%;
  seats by party - VLD 23, CVP 22, PS 19, PRL 18, VB 15, SP 14, ECOLO
  11, PSC 10, AGALEV 9, VU 8, FN 1

  note:  as a result of the 1993 constitutional revision that
  furthered devolution into a federal state, there are now three
  levels of government (federal, regional, and linguistic community)
  with a complex division of responsibilities; this reality leaves six
  governments each with its own legislative assembly; for other
  acronyms of the listed parties see Political parties and leaders

Belize:
  bicameral National Assembly consists of the Senate (eight
  members, five appointed on the advice of the prime minister, two on
  the advice of the leader of the opposition, and one by the governor
  general; members are appointed for five-year terms); and the House
  of Representatives (29 seats; members are elected by direct popular
  vote to serve five-year terms)

  elections:  House of Representatives - last held 27 August 1998
  (next to be held by NA August 2003)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - PUP 59.2%, UDP 40.8%;
  seats by party - PUP 26, UDP 3

Benin:
  unicameral National Assembly or Assemblee Nationale (83
  seats; members are elected by direct popular vote to serve four-year
  terms)

  elections:  last held 30 March 1999 (next to be held NA March 2003)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
  RB 27, PRD 11, FARD-ALAFIA 10, PSD 9, MADEP 6, E'toile 4, Alliance
  IPD 4, Car-DUNYA 3, MERCI 2, other 7

Bermuda:
  bicameral Parliament consists of the Senate (an 11-member
  body appointed by the governor) and the House of Assembly (40 seats;
  members are elected by popular vote to serve five-year terms)

  elections:  last held 9 November 1998 (next to be held NA November
  2003)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - PLP 54%, UBP 44%, NLP
  1%, independents 1%; seats by party - PLP 26, UBP 14

Bhutan:
  unicameral National Assembly or Tshogdu (150 seats; 105
  elected from village constituencies, 10 represent religious bodies,
  and 35 are designated by the monarch to represent government and
  other secular interests; members serve three-year terms)

  elections:  last held NA (next to be held NA)

  election results:  NA

Bolivia:
  bicameral National Congress or Congreso Nacional consists
  of Chamber of Senators or Camara de Senadores (27 seats; members are
  directly elected by popular vote to serve five-year terms) and
  Chamber of Deputies or Camara de Diputados (130 seats; members are
  directly elected by popular vote to serve five-year terms; note -
  some members are drawn from party lists, thus not directly elected)

  elections:  Chamber of Senators and Chamber of Deputies - last held
  1 June 1997 (next to be held NA June 2002)

  election results:  Chamber of Senators - percent of vote by party -
  NA%; seats by party - ADN 11, MIR 7, MNR 4, CONDEPA 3, UCS 2;
  Chamber of Deputies - percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party
  - ADN 32, MNR 26, MIR 23, UCS 21, CONDEPA 19, MBL 5, IU 4

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  bicameral Parliamentary Assembly or
  Skupstina consists of the National House of Representatives or
  Predstavnicki Dom (42 seats - 14 Serb, 14 Croat, and 14 Bosniak;
  members elected by popular vote to serve two-year terms) and the
  House of Peoples or Dom Naroda (15 seats - 5 Bosniak, 5 Croat, 5
  Serb; members elected by the Bosniak/Croat Federation's House of
  Representatives and the Republika Srpska's National Assembly to
  serve two-year terms); note - as of 1 January 2001, Bosnia and
  Herzegovina does not have a permanent election law; a draft law
  specifies four-year terms for the state and first-order
  administrative division entity legislatures; officials elected in
  2000 were elected to two-year terms on the presumption that a
  permanent law would be in place before 2002

  elections:  National House of Representatives - elections last held
  11 November 2000 (next to be held in the fall of 2002); House of
  Peoples - last constituted after the 11 November 2000 elections
  (next to be constituted in the fall of 2002)

  election results:  National House of Representatives - percent of
  vote by party/coalition - NA%; seats by party/coalition - SDP 9, SDA
  8, SDS 6, HDZ-BiH 5, SBH 5, PDP 2, NHI 1, BPS 1, DPS 1, SNS 1,
  SNSD-DSP 1, DNZ 1, SPRS 1; House of Peoples - percent of vote by
  party/coalition - NA%; seats by party/coalition - NA

  note:  the Bosniak/Croat Federation has a bicameral legislature that
  consists of a House of Representatives (140 seats; members elected
  by popular vote to serve four-year terms); elections last held 11
  November 2000 (next to be held NA 2002); percent of vote by party -
  NA%; seats by party/coalition - SDA 38, SDP 37, HDZ-BiH 25, SBH 21,
  DNZ 3, NHI 2, BPS 2, DPS 2, BOSS 2, GDS 1, RP 1, HSS 1, LDS 1,
  Pensioners' Party of FBiH 1, SNSD-DSP 1, HKDU 1, HSP 1; and a House
  of Peoples (74 seats - 30 Bosniak, 30 Croat, and 14 others); last
  constituted November 2000; the Republika Srpska has a National
  Assembly (83 seats; members elected by popular vote to serve
  four-year terms); elections last held 11 November 2000 (next to be
  held NA 2002); percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by
  party/coalition - SDS 31, PDP 11, SNSD 11, SDA 6, DSP 4, SDP 4, SPRS
  4, SBH 4, DNS 3, SNS 2, NHI 1, DSRS 1, Pensioners' Party 1; as of 1
  January 2001, Bosnia and Herzegovina does not have a permanent
  election law; a draft law specifies four-year terms for the state
  and first-order administrative division entity legislatures;
  officials elected in 2000 were elected to two-year terms on the
  presumption that a permanent law would be in place before 2002

Botswana:
  bicameral Parliament consists of the House of Chiefs (a
  largely advisory 15-member body consisting of the chiefs of the
  eight principal tribes, four elected subchiefs, and three members
  selected by the other 12) and the National Assembly (44 seats, 40
  members are directly elected by popular vote and 4 appointed by the
  majority party; members serve five-year terms)

  elections:  National Assembly elections last held 16 October 1999
  (next to be held NA October 2004)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - BDP 57.2%, BNF 26%,
  other 16.8%; seats by party - BDP 33, BNF 6, other 1

Brazil:
  bicameral National Congress or Congresso Nacional consists
  of the Federal Senate or Senado Federal (81 seats; three members
  from each state or federal district elected according to the
  principle of majority to serve eight-year terms; one-third elected
  after a four year period, two-thirds elected after the next
  four-year period) and the Chamber of Deputies or Camara dos
  Deputados (513 seats; members are elected by proportional
  representation to serve four-year terms)

  elections:  Federal Senate - last held 4 October 1998 for one-third
  of Senate (next to be held NA October 2002 for two-thirds of the
  Senate); Chamber of Deputies - last held 4 October 1998 (next to be
  held NA October 2002)

  election results:  Federal Senate - percent of vote by party - NA%;
  seats by party - PMDB 27, PFL 20, PSDB 16, PT 7, PPB 5, PSB 3, PDT
  2, PPS 1; Chamber of Deputies - percent of vote by party - NA%;
  seats by party - PFL 106, PSDB 99, PMDB 82, PPB 60, PT 58, PTB 31,
  PDT 25, PSB 19, PL 12, PCdoB 7, other 14

British Virgin Islands:
  unicameral Legislative Council (13 seats;
  members are elected by direct popular vote, one member from each of
  9 electoral districts, four at-large members; members serve
  five-year terms)

  elections:  last held 17 May 1999 (next to be held NA 2004)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
  VIP 7, CCM 1, NDP 5

Brunei:
  unicameral Legislative Council or Majlis Masyuarat Megeri (a
  privy council that serves only in a consultative capacity; NA seats;
  members appointed by the monarch)

  elections:  last held in March 1962

  note:  in 1970 the Council was changed to an appointive body by
  decree of the monarch; an elected Legislative Council is being
  considered as part of constitutional reform, but elections are
  unlikely for several years

Bulgaria:
  unicameral National Assembly or Narodno Sobranie (240
  seats; members elected by popular vote to serve four-year terms)

  elections:  last held 17 June 2001 (next to be held NA June 2005)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
  National Movement for Simeon II 120, UDF 51, BSP 48, DPS 21

Burkina Faso:
  bicameral; consists of a National Assembly or
  Assemblee des Deputes Populaires (111 seats; members are elected by
  popular vote to serve five-year terms) and the purely consultative
  Chamber of Representations or Chambre des Representants (178 seats;
  members are appointed to serve three-year terms)

  elections:  National Assembly election last held 11 May 1997 (next
  to be held NA 2002)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
  CDP 101, PDP 6, RDA 2, ADF 2

Burma:
  unicameral People's Assembly or Pyithu Hluttaw (485 seats;
  members elected by popular vote to serve four-year terms)

  elections:  last held 27 May 1990, but Assembly never convened

  election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
  NLD 392, SNLD 23, NUP 10, other 60

Burundi:
  unicameral National Assembly or Assemblee Nationale (121
  seats; note - new Transitional Constitution expanded the number of
  seats from 81 to 121 in 1998; members are elected by popular vote on
  a proportional basis to serve five-year terms)

  elections:  last held 29 June 1993 (next was scheduled to be held in
  1998, but suspended by presidential decree in 1996)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - FRODEBU 71.04%, UPRONA
  21.4%, other 7.56%; seats by party - FRODEBU 65, UPRONA 16, various
  other parties 40

Cambodia:
  bicameral consists of the National Assembly (122 seats;
  members elected by popular vote to serve five-year terms) and the
  Senate (61 seats; two members appointed by the monarch, two elected
  by the National Assembly, and 57 elected by "functional
  constituencies"; members serve five-year terms

  elections:  National Assembly - last held 26 July 1998 (next to be
  held NA 2003); Senate - last held 2 March 1999 (next to be held NA
  2004)

  election results:  National Assembly - percent of vote by party -
  CPP 41%, FUNCINPEC 32%, SRP 14%, other 13%; seats by party - CPP 64,
  FUNCINPEC 43, SRP 15; Senate - seats by party - CPP 31, FUNCINPEC
  21, SRP 7

Cameroon:
  unicameral National Assembly or Assemblee Nationale (180
  seats; members are elected by direct popular vote to serve five-year
  terms; note - the president can either lengthen or shorten the term
  of the legislature)

  elections:  last held 17 May 1997 (next to be held NA 2002)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
  RDCP 109, SDF 43, UNDP 13, UDC 5, UPC-K 1, MDR 1, MLJC 1; note -
  results from 7 contested seats were cancelled by the Supreme Court,
  further elections on 3 August 1997 gave these seats to the RDPC

  note:  the constitution calls for an upper chamber for the
  legislature, to be called a Senate, but it has yet to be established

Canada:
  bicameral Parliament or Parlement consists of the Senate or
  Senat (a body whose members are appointed to serve until reaching 75
  years of age by the governor general and selected on the advice of
  the prime minister; its normal limit is 104 senators) and the House
  of Commons or Chambre des Communes (301 seats; members elected by
  direct popular vote to serve five-year terms)

  elections:  House of Commons - last held 27 November 2000 (next to
  be held 2005)

  election results:  percent of vote by party as of January 2001 -
  Liberal Party 42%, Canadian Alliance 22%, Bloc Quebecois 13%, New
  Democratic Party 4%, Progressive Conservative Party 4%; seats by
  party as of January 2001 - Liberal Party 172, Canadian Alliance 66,
  Bloc Quebecois 38, New Democratic Party 13, Progressive Conservative
  Party 12

Cape Verde:
  unicameral National Assembly or Assembleia Nacional (72
  seats; members are elected by popular vote to serve five-year terms)

  elections:  last held 14 January 2001 (next to be held NA December
  2005)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - PAICV 47.3%, MPD
  39.8%, ADM 6%, other 6.9%; seats by party - PAICV 40, MPD 30, ADM 2

Cayman Islands:
  unicameral Legislative Assembly (18 seats, three
  appointed members and 15 elected by popular vote; members serve
  four-year terms)

  elections:  last held 8 November 2000 (next to be held NA November
  2004)

  election results:  percent of vote - NA%; seats - NA

Central African Republic:
  unicameral National Assembly or Assemblee
  Nationale (109 seats; members are elected by popular vote to serve
  five-year terms; note - there were 85 seats in the National Assembly
  before the 1998 election)

  elections:  last held 22-23 November and 13 December 1998 (next to
  be held NA 2003)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - MLPC 43%, RDC 18%, MDD
  9%, FPP 6%, PSD 5%, ADP 4%, PUN 3%, FODEM 2%, PLD 2%, UPR 1%, FC 1%,
  independents 6%; seats by party - MLPC 47, RDC 20, MDD 8, FPP 7, PSD
  6, ADP 5, PUN 3, FODEM 2, PLD 2, UPR 1, FC 1, independents 7

  note:  the National Assembly is advised by the Economic and Regional
  Council or Conseil Economique et Regional; when they sit together
  they are called the Congress or Congres

Chad:
  unicameral National Assembly (125 seats; members elected by
  popular vote to serve four-year terms); replaces the Higher
  Transitional Council or the Conseil Superieur de Transition

  elections:  National Assembly - last held in two rounds on 5 January
  and 23 February 1997 (next to be held in late 2001); in the first
  round of voting some candidates won clear victories by receiving 50%
  or more of the vote; where that did not happen, the two highest
  scoring candidates stood for a second round of voting

  election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
  MPS 65, URD 29, UNDR 15, RDP 3, others 13

Chile:
  bicameral National Congress or Congreso Nacional consists of
  the Senate or Senado (48 seats, 38 elected by popular vote and 10
  appointed (all former presidents who served 6 years are senators for
  life); members serve eight-year terms - one-half elected every four
  years) and the Chamber of Deputies or Camara de Diputados (120
  seats; members are elected by popular vote to serve four-year terms)

  elections:  Senate - last held 11 December 1997 (next to be held NA
  December 2001); Chamber of Deputies - last held 11 December 1997
  (next to be held NA December 2001)

  election results:  Senate - percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by
  party - CPD (PDC 14, PS 4, PPD 2), RN 7, UDI 10, UCCP 1,
  independents 10; Chamber of Deputies - percent of vote by party -
  CPD 50.55% (PDC 22.98%, PS 11.10%, PPD 12.55%, PRSD 3.13%), RN
  16.78%, UDI 14.43%; seats by party - CPD 70 (PDC 39, PPD 16, PRSD 4,
  PS 11), RN 24, UDI 21, Socialist Party 1, right-wing independents 4

China:
  unicameral National People's Congress or Quanguo Renmin
  Daibiao Dahui (2,979 seats; members elected by municipal, regional,
  and provincial people's congresses to serve five-year terms)

  elections:  last held NA December 1997-NA February 1998 (next to be
  held late 2002-NA March 2003)

  election results:  percent of vote - NA%; seats - NA

Christmas Island:
  unicameral Christmas Island Shire Council (9
  seats; members elected by popular vote to serve one-year terms)

  elections:  last held NA December 2000 (next to be held NA December
  2001)

  election results:  percent of vote - NA%; seats - independents 9

Cocos (Keeling) Islands:
  unicameral Cocos (Keeling) Islands Shire
  Council (NA seats)

Colombia:
  bicameral Congress or Congreso consists of the Senate or
  Senado (102 seats; members are elected by popular vote to serve
  four-year terms) and the House of Representatives or Camara de
  Representantes (163 seats; members are elected by popular vote to
  serve four-year terms)

  elections:  Senate - last held 8 March 1998 (next to be held NA
  March 2002); House of Representatives - last held 8 March 1998 (next
  to be held NA March 2002)

  election results:  Senate - percent of vote by party - PL 50%, PSC
  24%, smaller parties (many aligned with conservatives) 26%; seats by
  party - PL 58, PSC 28, smaller parties 16; House of Representatives
  - percent of vote by party - PL 52%, PSC 17%, other 31%; seats by
  party - PL 98, PSC 52, indigenous parties 2, others 11

Comoros:
  bicameral legislature consists of the Senate (15 seats:
  five from each island); members selected by regional councils for
  six-year terms) and a Federal Assembly or Assemblee Federale (43
  seats; members elected by popular vote to serve five-year terms);
  note - the Federal Assembly was dissolved following the coup of 30
  April 1999

  elections:  Federal Assembly - last held 1 and 8 December 1996 (next
  to be held NA)

  election results:  Federal Assembly - percent of vote by party -
  NA%; seats by party - RND 39, FNJ 3, independent 1

  note:  the constitution stipulates that only parties that win six
  seats in the Federal Assembly (two from each island) are permitted
  to be in opposition, but if no party accomplishes that, the second
  most successful party will be in opposition; in the elections of
  December 1996 the FNJ appeared to qualify as opposition

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  a 300-member Transitional
  Constituent Assembly established in August 2000

  elections:  NA; members of the Transitional Constituent Assembly
  were appointed by former President KABILA

Congo, Republic of the:
  unicameral National Transitional Council (75
  seats, members elected by reconciliation forum of 1,420 delegates on
  NA January 1998); note - the National Transitional Council replaced
  the bicameral Parliament

  elections:  National Transitional Council - last held NA January
  1998 (next to be held NA 2001); note - at that election the National
  Transitional Council is to be replaced by a bicameral assembly

  election results:  National Transitional Council - percent of vote
  by party - NA%; seats by party - NA

Cook Islands:
  unicameral Parliament (25 seats; members elected by
  popular vote to serve five-year terms)

  elections:  last held NA June 1999 (next to be held by NA 2004)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
  CIP 12, DAP 12, NAP 1

  note:  the House of Ariki (chiefs) advises on traditional matters,
  but has no legislative powers

Costa Rica:
  unicameral Legislative Assembly or Asamblea Legislativa
  (57 seats; members are elected by direct, popular vote to serve
  four-year terms)

  elections:  last held 1 February 1998 (next to be held 3 February
  2002)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - PUSC 41%, PLN 35%,
  minority parties 24%; seats by party - PUSC 27, PLN 23, minority
  parties 7

Cote d'Ivoire:
  unicameral National Assembly or Assemblee Nationale
  (225 seats; members are elected in single- and multi-district
  elections by direct popular vote to serve five-year terms)

  elections:  elections last held 10 December 2000 with by-elections
  on 14 January 2001 (next to be held NA 2005)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
  FPI 96, PDCI-RDA 94, RDR 5, PIT 4, other 2, independents 22, vacant 2

  note:  a Senate is scheduled to be created in the next full election
  in 2005

Croatia:
  bicameral Assembly or Sabor consists of the House of
  Counties or Zupanijski Dom (68 seats, 63 directly elected by popular
  vote, 5 appointed by the president; members serve four-year terms;
  note - House of Counties to be abolished in 2001) and House of
  Representatives or the Zastupnicki Dom (151 seats; members elected
  by popular vote to serve four-year terms)

  elections:  House of Counties - last held 13 April 1997; House of
  Representatives - last held 2-3 January 2000 (next to be held NA
  2004)

  election results:  House of Counties - percent of vote by party -
  NA%; seats by party - HDZ 42, HSLS/HSS 11, HSS 2, IDS 2, SDP/PGS/HNS
  2, SDP/HNS 2, HSLS/HSS/HNS 1, HSLS 1; note - in some districts
  certain parties ran as coalitions, while in others they ran alone;
  House of Representatives - percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by
  party - HDZ 46, SDP 44, HSLS 24, HSS 17, HSP/HKDU 5, IDS 4, HNS 2,
  independents 4, minority representatives 5

Cuba:
  unicameral National Assembly of People's Power or Asemblea
  Nacional del Poder Popular (601 seats, elected directly from slates
  approved by special candidacy commissions; members serve five-year
  terms)

  elections:  last held 11 January 1998 (next to be held in 2003)

  election results:  percent of vote - PCC 94.39%; seats - PCC 601

Cyprus:
  unicameral - Greek Cypriot area: House of Representatives or
  Vouli Antiprosopon (80 seats; 56 assigned to the Greek Cypriots, 24
  to Turkish Cypriots; note - only those assigned to Greek Cypriots
  are filled; members are elected by popular vote to serve five-year
  terms); Turkish Cypriot area: Assembly of the Republic or Cumhuriyet
  Meclisi (50 seats; members are elected by popular vote to serve
  five-year terms)

  elections:  Greek Cypriot area: last held 27 May 2001 (next to be
  held NA May 2006); Turkish Cypriot area: last held 6 December 1998
  (next to be held NA December 2003)

  election results:  Greek Cypriot area: House of Representatives -
  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party - AKEL (Communist)
  20, DISY 19, DIKO 9, KISOS 4, others 4; Turkish Cypriot area:
  Assembly of the Republic - percent of vote by party - UBP 40.3%, DP
  22.6%, TKP 15.4%, CTP 13.4%, UDP 4.6%, YBH 2.5%, BP 1.2%; seats by
  party - UBP 24, DP 13, TKP 7, CTP 6

Czech Republic:
  bicameral Parliament or Parlament consists of the
  Senate or Senat (81 seats; members are elected by popular vote to
  serve six-year terms; one-third elected every two years) and the
  Chamber of Deputies or Poslanecka snemovna (200 seats; members are
  elected by popular vote to serve four-year terms)

  elections:  Senate - last held 12 and 19 November 2000 (next to be
  held NA November 2002); Chamber of Deputies - last held 19-20 June
  1998 (next to be held by NA June 2002)

  election results:  Senate - percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by
  party - KDU-CSL 28, ODS 22, CSSD 15, ODA 7, US 4, KSCM 3,
  independents 2; Chamber of Deputies - percent of vote by party -
  CSSD 32.3%, ODS 27.7%, KSCM 11%, KDU-CSL 9.0%, US 8.6%; seats by
  party - CSSD 74, ODS 63, KSCM 24, KDU-CSL 20, US 18, CSNS 1

Denmark:
  unicameral Parliament or Folketing (179 seats, including 2
  from Greenland and 2 from the Faroe Islands; members are elected by
  popular vote on the basis of proportional representation to serve
  four-year terms)

  elections:  last held 11 March 1998 (next to be held by March 2002)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
  progovernment parties: Social Democratic Party 65, Socialist
  People's Party 13, Social Liberal Party 7, Red-Green Unity List 5;
  opposition: Liberal Party 43, Conservative Party 17, Danish People's
  Party 13, Center Democratic Party 8, Christian People's Party 4,
  Progress Party 4; seats by party as of 1 January 2001: government
  coalition parties - Social Democrats 63, Social Liberals 7;
  pro-government parties - Socialist People's Party 13, Unity List 5;
  opposition - Liberals 42, Conservatives 16, Danish People's Party
  13, Center Democrats 8, Christian People's Party 4, Progress Party 4
  (now named Freedom 2000); does not include the 4 overseas seats

Djibouti:
  unicameral Chamber of Deputies or Chambre des Deputes (65
  seats; members elected by popular vote for five-year terms)

  elections:  last held 19 December 1997 (next to be held NA 2002)

  election results:  percent of vote - NA%; seats - RPP 65; note - RPP
  (the ruling party) dominated the election

Dominica:
  unicameral House of Assembly (30 seats, 9 appointed
  senators, 21 elected by popular vote; members serve five-year terms)

  elections:  last held 31 January 2000 (next to be held by NA 2005)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party
  -DLP 11, UWP 8, DFP 2

Dominican Republic:
  bicameral National Congress or Congreso Nacional
  consists of the Senate or Senado (30 seats; members are elected by
  popular vote to serve four-year terms) and the Chamber of Deputies
  or Camara de Diputados (149 seats; members are elected by popular
  vote to serve four-year terms)

  elections:  Senate - last held 16 May 1998 (next to be held NA May
  2002); Chamber of Deputies - last held 16 May 1998 (next to be held
  NA May 2002)

  election results:  Senate - percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by
  party - PRD 24, PLD 3, PRSC 3; Chamber of Deputies - percent of vote
  by party - NA%; seats by party - PRD 83, PLD 49, PRSC 17

Ecuador:
  unicameral National Congress or Congreso Nacional (121
  seats; 79 members are popularly elected at-large nationally to serve
  four-year terms; 42 members are popularly elected by province - two
  per province - for four-year terms)

  elections:  last held 31 May 1998 (next to be held NA 2002)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
  DP 32, PSC 27, PRE 24, ID 18, P-NP 9, FRA 5, PCE 3, MPD 2, CFP 1;
  note - defections by members of National Congress are commonplace,
  resulting in frequent changes in the numbers of seats held by the
  various parties

Egypt:
  bicameral system consists of the People's Assembly or Majlis
  al-Sha'b (454 seats; 444 elected by popular vote, 10 appointed by
  the president; members serve five-year terms) and the Advisory
  Council or Majlis al-Shura - which functions only in a consultative
  role (264 seats; 176 elected by popular vote, 88 appointed by the
  president; members serve NA-year terms)

  elections:  People's Assembly - three-phase voting - last held 19
  October, 29 October, 8 November 2000 (next to be held NA November
  2005); Advisory Council - last held 7 June 1995 (next to be held NA)

  election results:  People's Assembly - percent of vote by party -
  NDP 88%, independents 8%, opposition 4%; seats by party - NDP 398,
  NWP 7, Tagammu 6, Nasserists 2, LSP 1, independents 38, undecided 2;
  Advisory Council - percent of vote by party - NDP 99%, independents
  1%; seats by party - NA

El Salvador:
  unicameral Legislative Assembly or Asamblea Legislativa
  (84 seats; members are elected by direct popular vote to serve
  three-year terms)

  elections:  last held 12 March 2000 (next to be held NA March 2003)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - ARENA 36.1%, FMLN
  35.14%, PCN 8.76%, PDC 7.08%, CD 5.32%, PAN 3.75%, USC 1.47%, PLD
  1.29%; seats by party - ARENA 28, FMLN 31, PCN 14, PDC 5, CD 3, PAN
  1, independent 2

Equatorial Guinea:
  unicameral House of People's Representatives or
  Camara de Representantes del Pueblo (80 seats; members directly
  elected by popular vote to serve five-year terms)

  elections:  last held 7 March 1999 (next to be held NA 2004)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - PDGE 80%, UP 6%, CPDS
  5%; seats by party - PDGE 75, UP 4 and CPDS 1

  note:  opposition parties have refused to take up their seats in the
  House to protest widespread irregularities in the 1999 legislative
  elections

Eritrea:
  unicameral National Assembly (150 seats; term limits not
  established)

  elections:  in May 1997, following the adoption of the new
  constitution, 75 members of the PFDJ Central Committee (the old
  Central Committee of the EPLF), 60 members of the 527-member
  Constituent Assembly which had been established in 1997 to discuss
  and ratify the new constitution, and 15 representatives of Eritreans
  living abroad were formed into a Transitional National Assembly to
  serve as the country's legislative body until country-wide elections
  to a National Assembly are held; only 75 members will be elected to
  the National Assembly - the other 75 will be members of the Central
  Committee of the PFDJ; parliamentary elections are now scheduled for
  NA December 2001

Estonia:
  unicameral Parliament or Riigikogu (101 seats; members are
  elected by popular vote to serve four-year terms)

  elections:  last held 7 March 1999 (next to be held NA March 2003)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
  Center Party 28, Union of Pro Patria (Fatherland League) 18, Reform
  Party 18, Moderates 17, Country People's Party (Agrarians) 7,
  Coalition Party 7, UPPE 6

Ethiopia:
  bicameral Parliament consists of the House of Federation
  or upper chamber (108 seats; members are chosen by state assemblies
  to serve five-year terms) and the House of People's Representatives
  or lower chamber (548 seats; members are directly elected by popular
  vote from single-member districts to serve five-year terms)

  elections:  last held 14 May 2000 (next to be held NA May 2005)

  election results:  percent of vote - NA%; seats - OPDO 177, ANDM
  134, TPLF 38, WGGPDO 27, EPRDF 19, SPDO 18, GNDM 15, KSPDO 10, ANDP
  8, GPRDF 7, SOPDM 7, BGPDUF 6, BMPDO 5, KAT 4, other regional
  political groupings 22, independents 8; note - 43 seats unconfirmed

  note:  irregularities and violence at a number of polling stations
  necessitated the rescheduling of voting in certain constituencies;
  voting postponed in Somali regional state because of severe drought

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas):
  unicameral Legislative Council
  (10 seats - 2 ex officio, 8 elected by popular vote, members serve
  four-year terms) presided over by the governor

  elections:  last held 9 October 1997 (next to be held NA October
  2001)

  election results:  percent of vote - NA%; seats - independents 8

Faroe Islands:
  unicameral Faroese Parliament or Logting (32 seats;
  members are elected by popular vote on a proportional basis from the
  seven constituencies to serve four-year terms)

  elections:  last held 30 April 1998 (next to be held not later than
  April 2002)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - Republican Party
  23.8%, People's Party 21.3%, Social Democratic Party 21.9%, Union
  Party 18%, Home Rue Party 7.7%, Center Party 4.1%; seats by party -
  Republican Party 8, People's Party 8, Social Democratic Party 7,
  Union Party 6, Home Rule Party 2, Center Party 1

  note:  election of 2 seats to the Danish Parliament was last held on
  11 March 1998 (next to be held not later than March 2002); results -
  percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party - Social Democratic
  Party 1, People's Party 1

Fiji:
  bicameral Parliament consists of the Senate (32 seats; 14
  appointed by the Great Council of Chiefs, nine appointed by the
  prime minister, eight appointed by the leader of the opposition, and
  one appointed by the council of Rotuma) and the House of
  Representatives (71 seats; 23 reserved for ethnic Fijians, 19
  reserved for ethnic Indians, three reserved for other ethnic groups,
  one reserved for the council of Rotuma constituency encompassing the
  whole of Fiji, and 25 open; members serve five-year terms)

  elections:  House of Representatives - last held 11 May 1999 (next
  to be held NA May 2004)

  election results:  House of Representatives - percent of vote by
  party - NA%; seats by party - Fiji Labor Party 37, others 34

Finland:
  unicameral Parliament or Eduskunta (200 seats; members are
  elected by popular vote on a proportional basis to serve four-year
  terms)

  elections:  last held 21 March 1999 (next to be held NA March 2003)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - SDP 22.9%, Kesk 22.5%,
  Kok 21.0%, Leftist Alliance (Communist) 10.9%, SFP 5.1%, Green Union
  7.2%, SKL 4.2%; seats by party - SDP 51, Kesk 48, Kok 46, Leftist
  Alliance (Communist) 20, SFP 11, Green Union 11, SKL 10, other 3

France:
  bicameral Parliament or Parlement consists of the Senate or
  Senat (321 seats - 296 for metropolitan France, 13 for overseas
  departments and territories, and 12 for French nationals abroad;
  members are indirectly elected by an electoral college to serve
  nine-year terms; elected by thirds every three years) and the
  National Assembly or Assemblee Nationale (577 seats; members are
  elected by popular vote under a single-member majoritarian system to
  serve five-year terms)

  elections:  Senate - last held 27 September 1998 (next to be held
  September 2001); National Assembly - last held 25 May-1 June 1997
  (next to be held NA May 2002)

  election results:  Senate - percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by
  party - RPR 99, UDC 52, DL 47, PS 78, PCF 16, other 29; National
  Assembly - percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party - PS 245,
  RPR 140, UDF 109, PCF 37, PRS 13, MEI 8, MDC 7, LDI-MPF 1, FN 1,
  various left 9, various right 7

French Guiana:
  unicameral General Council or Conseil General (19
  seats; members are elected by popular vote to serve six-year terms)
  and a unicameral Regional Council or Conseil Regional (31 seats;
  members are elected by popular vote to serve six-year terms)

  elections:  General Council - last held NA March 2000 (next to be
  held NA 2006); Regional Council - last held 15 March 1998 (next to
  be held NA 2004)

  election results:  General Council - percent of vote by party - NA%;
  seats by party - NA; Regional Council - percent of vote by party -
  PS 28.28%, various left parties 22.56%, RPR 15.91%, independents
  8.6%, Walwari Committee 6%; seats by party - PS 11, various left
  parties 9, RPR 6, independents 3, Walwari Committee 2

  note:  one seat was elected to the French Senate on 27 September
  1998 (next to be held NA September 2007); results - percent of vote
  by party - NA; seats by party - NA; 2 seats were elected to the
  French National Assembly on 25 May - 1 June 1997 (next to be held NA
  2002); results - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party - RPR
  1, PSG 1

French Polynesia:
  unicameral Territorial Assembly or Assemblee
  Territoriale (41 seats; members are elected by popular vote to serve
  five-year terms)

  elections:  last held 12 May 1996 (next to be held NA 2001)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
  People's Rally for the Republic (Gaullist) 22, Independent Front for
  the Liberation of Polynesia 10, New Fatherland Party 5, other 4

  note:  one seat was elected to the French Senate on 24 September
  1989 (next to be held NA September 1998); results - percent of vote
  by party - NA; seats by party - UC 1; two seats were elected to the
  French National Assembly on 25 May - 1 June 1997 (next to be held NA
  2002); results - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party -
  People's Rally for the Republic (Gaullist) 2

Gabon:
  bicameral legislature consists of the Senate (91 seats) and
  the National Assembly or Assemblee Nationale (120 seats); members
  are elected by direct popular vote to serve five-year terms

  elections:  National Assembly - last held 15 and 29 December 1996
  (next to be held NA December 2001); Senate - last held 26 January
  and 9 February 1997 (next to be held in January 2002)

  election results:  National Assembly - percent of vote by party -
  NA%; seats by party - PDG 89, PGP 9, RNB 6, CLR 3, UPG 2, USG 2,
  independents 4, others 5; Senate - percent of vote by party - NA%;
  seats by party - PDG 53, RNB 20, PGP 4, ADERE 3, RDP 1, CLR 1,
  independents 9

Gambia, The:
  unicameral National Assembly (49 seats; 45 elected by
  popular vote, 4 appointed by the president; members serve five-year
  terms)

  elections:  last popular election held 2 January 1997 (next to be
  held NA January 2002)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
  APRC 33, UDP 7, NRP 2, PDOIS 1, independents 2

Georgia:
  unicameral Supreme Council (commonly referred to as
  Parliament) or Umaghiesi Sabcho (235 seats; members are elected by
  popular vote to serve four-year terms)

  elections:  last held 31 October and 14 November 1999 (next to be
  held NA 2003)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - CUG 41.85%, AGUR
  25.65%, IWSG 7.8%, all other parties received less than 7% each;
  seats by party - CUG 130, AGUR 58, IWSG 15, Abkhaz deputies 12,
  independents 17, other 3

Germany:
  bicameral Parliament or Parlament consists of the Federal
  Assembly or Bundestag (656 seats usually, but 669 for the 1998 term;
  elected by popular vote under a system combining direct and
  proportional representation; a party must win 5% of the national
  vote or three direct mandates to gain representation; members serve
  four-year terms) and the Federal Council or Bundesrat (69 votes;
  state governments are directly represented by votes; each has 3 to 6
  votes depending on population and are required to vote as a block)

  elections:  Federal Assembly - last held 27 September 1998 (next to
  be held by the fall of 2002); note - there are no elections for the
  Bundesrat; composition is determined by the composition of the
  state-level governments; the composition of the Bundesrat has the
  potential to change any time one of the 16 states holds an election

  election results:  Federal Assembly - percent of vote by party - SPD
  40.9%, Alliance '90/Greens 6.7%, CDU/CSU 35.1%, FDP 6.2%, PDS 5.1%;
  seats by party - SPD 298, Alliance '90/Greens 47, CDU/CSU 245, FDP
  43, PDS 36; Federal Council - current composition - votes by party -
  SPD-led states 26, CDU-led states 28, grand coalitions 15

Ghana:
  unicameral Parliament (200 seats; members are elected by
  direct popular vote to serve four-year terms)

  elections:  last held 7 December 2000 (next to be held NA December
  2004)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
  NPP 100, NDC 92, PNC 3, CPP 1, independents 4

Gibraltar:
  unicameral House of Assembly (18 seats - 15 elected by
  popular vote, one appointed for the Speaker, and two ex officio
  members; members serve four-year terms)

  elections:  last held 10 February 2000 (next to be held NA 2004)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - GSD 58%, GSLP 41%;
  seats by party - GSD 8, GSLP 7

Greece:
  unicameral Parliament or Vouli ton Ellinon (300 seats;
  members are elected by direct popular vote to serve four-year terms)

  elections:  elections last held 9 April 2000 (next to be held by NA
  April 2004)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - PASOK 43.8%, ND 42.7%,
  KKE 5.5%, Coalition of the Left and Progress 3.2%; seats by party -
  PASOK 158, ND 125, KKE 11, Coalition of the Left and Progress 6

Greenland:
  unicameral Parliament or Landstinget (31 seats; members
  are elected by popular vote on the basis of proportional
  representation to serve four-year terms)

  elections:  last held on 16 February 1999 (next to be held by NA
  February 2003)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - Siumut 35.2%, Inuit
  Ataqatigiit 22.1%, Atassut Party 25.2%, Candidate's League 12.3%,
  independent 5.2%; seats by party - Siumut 11, Atassut 8, Inuit
  Ataqatigiit 7, Candidate List 4, independent 1

  note:  two representatives were elected to the Danish Parliament or
  Folketing on 11 March 1998 (next to be held by not later than March
  2002); percent of vote by party - Siumut 35.6%, Atassut 35.2%; seats
  by party - Siumut 1, Atassut 1; Greenlandic representatives are
  affiliated with Danish political parties (Siamut with Social
  Democratic Party and Atassut with Liberal Party)

Grenada:
  bicameral Parliament consists of the Senate (a 13-member
  body, 10 appointed by the government and three by the leader of the
  opposition) and the House of Representatives (15 seats; members are
  elected by popular vote to serve five-year terms)

  elections:  last held on 18 January 1999 (next to be held by NA
  October 2004)

  election results:  House of Representatives - percent of vote by
  party - NA%; seats by party - NNP 14, GULP 1

Guadeloupe:
  unicameral General Council or Conseil General (42 seats;
  members are elected by popular vote to serve six-year terms) and the
  unicameral Regional Council or Conseil Regional (41 seats; members
  are elected by popular vote to serve six-year terms)

  elections:  General Council - last held 22 March 1998 (next to be
  held by NA 2004); Regional Council - last held 15 March 1998 (next
  to be held NA 2004)

  election results:  General Council - percent of vote by party - NA%;
  seats by party - diverse left parties 11, PS 8, RPR 8, PPDG 6,
  diverse right parties 5, PCG 3, UDF 1; Regional Council - percent of
  vote by party - RPR 48.03%, PS/PPDG/diverse left parties 24.49%, PCG
  5.29%, diverse right parties 5.73%; seats by party - RPR 25,
  PS/PPDG/diverse left parties 12, PCG 2, diverse right parties 2

  note:  Guadeloupe elects two representatives to the French Senate;
  elections last held NA September 1995 (next to be held NA September
  2004); percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party - RPR 1, FGPS
  1; Guadeloupe elects four representatives to the French National
  Assembly; elections last held 25 May - 1 June 1997 (next to be held
  NA 2002); percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party - FGPS 2,
  RPR 1, PPDG 1

Guam:
  unicameral Legislature (15 seats; members are elected by
  popular vote to serve two-year terms)

  elections:  last held 7 November 2000 (next to be held NA November
  2002)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
  Republican Party 8, Democratic Party 7

  note:  Guam elects one delegate to the US House of Representatives;
  election last held 7 November 2000 (next to be held NA November
  2002); results - Robert UNDERWOOD was reelected as delegate; percent
  of vote by party - NA%; seats by party - Democratic Party 1

Guatemala:
  unicameral Congress of the Republic or Congreso de la
  Republica (113 seats; members are elected by popular vote to serve
  four-year terms)

  elections:  last held on 7 November 1999 (next to be held in
  November 2003)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
  FRG 63, PAN 37, ANN 9, DCG 2, UD/LOV 1, PLP 1

  note:  for the 7 November 1999 election, the number of congressional
  seats was increased from 80 to 113

Guernsey:
  unicameral Assembly of the States; consists of the
  Bailiff, 10 Douzaine (parish council) representatives, 45 People's
  Deputies elected by popular franchise, 2 Alderney representatives,
  HM Procureur (Attorney General), HM Comptroller (Solicitor General)
  and HM Greffier (Court Recorder and Registrar General)

  elections:  last held 12 April 2000 (next to be held NA 2006)

  election results:  percent of vote - NA%; seats - all independents

Guinea:
  unicameral People's National Assembly or Assemblee Nationale
  Populaire (114 seats; members are elected by direct popular vote to
  serve five-year terms)

  elections:  last held 11 June 1995 (next scheduled for 26 November
  2000 postponed indefinitely due to border fighting with rebels from
  Sierra Leone and Liberia)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
  PUP 71, RPG 19, PRP 9, UNR 9, UPG 2, PDG-AST 1, UNP 1, PDG-RDA 1,
  other 1

Guinea-Bissau:
  unicameral National People's Assembly or Assembleia
  Nacional Popular (100 seats; members are elected by popular vote to
  serve a maximum of four years)

  elections:  last held 28 November 1999 (next to be held by NA 2003)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
  PRS 37, RGB 27, PAIGC 25, 11 remaining seats went to 5 of the
  remaining 10 parties that fielded candidates

Guyana:
  unicameral National Assembly (65 seats, 53 elected by
  popular vote, 10 elected by the ten Regional Democratic Councils,
  and 2 elected by the National Congress of Local Democratic Organs;
  members serve five-year terms)

  elections:  last held 19 March 2001 (next to be held NA March 2006)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
  PPP/C 34, PNC 27, GAP and WPA 2, ROAR 1, TUF 1

Haiti:
  bicameral National Assembly or Assemblee Nationale consists
  of the Senate (27 seats; members serve six-year terms; one-third
  elected every two years) and the Chamber of Deputies (83 seats;
  members are elected by popular vote to serve four-year terms)

  elections:  Senate - last held for two-thirds of seats 21 May 2000,
  with runoffs on 9 July boycotted by the opposition; about eight
  seats still disputed; election for remaining one-third held on 26
  November 2000 (next to be held NA 2002); Chamber of Deputies - last
  held 21 May 2000, with runoffs on 30 July boycotted by the
  opposition; one vacant seat rerun 26 November 2000 (next election NA
  2004)

  election results:  Senate - percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by
  party - FL 26, independent 1; Chamber of Deputies - percent of vote
  by party - NA%; seats by party - FL 73, OPL 1, other minor parties
  and independents 9

Holy See (Vatican City):
  unicameral Pontifical Commission

Honduras:
  unicameral National Congress or Congreso Nacional (128
  seats; members are elected proportionally to the number of votes
  their party's presidential candidate receives to serve four-year
  terms)

  elections:  last held on 30 November 1997 (next to be held 25
  November 2001)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - PL 46%, PN 38%,
  PINU-SD 4%, PDC 2%, PUD 2%; seats by party - PL 67, PN 55, PINU-SD
  3, PDC 2, PUD 1

Hong Kong:
  unicameral Legislative Council or LEGCO (60 seats; 30
  indirectly elected by functional constituencies, 24 elected by
  popular vote, and 6 elected by an 800-member election committee;
  members serve four-year terms)

  elections:  last held 10 September 2000 (next to be held NA 2004)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
  Democratic Party 12, Democratic Alliance for the Betterment of Hong
  Kong 10, Liberal Party 7, Frontier Party 5, Hong Kong Progressive
  Alliance 4, New Century Forum 2, Hong Kong Association for Democracy
  and People's Livelihood 1, independents 19

Hungary:
  unicameral National Assembly or Orszaggyules (386 seats;
  members are elected by popular vote under a system of proportional
  and direct representation to serve four-year terms)

  elections:  last held on 10 and 24 May 1998 (next to be held
  May/June 2002)

  election results:  percent of vote by party (5% or more of the vote
  required for parliamentary representation in the first round) - MSZP
  32.0%, FIDESZ 28.2%, FKGP 13.8%, SZDSZ 7.9%, MIEP 5.5%, MMP 4.1%,
  MDF 2.8%, KDNP 2.3%, MDNP 1.5%; seats by party - MSZP 134, FIDESZ
  148, FKGP 48, SZDSZ 24, MDF 17, MIEP 14, independent 1; note -
  seating as of 2000 by party - MSZP 136, FIDESZ 141, FKGP 48, SZDSZ
  24, MDF 16, MIEP 12, independents 9

Iceland:
  unicameral Parliament or Althing (63 seats; members are
  elected by popular vote to serve four-year terms)

  elections:  last held on 8 May 1999 (next to be held by April 2003)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - Independence Party
  40.7%, The Alliance (PA, People's Party, Women's List) 26.8%,
  Progressive Party 18.4%, Left-Green Alliance 9.1%, Liberal Party
  4.2%; seats by party - Independence Party 26, The Alliance 17,
  Progressive Party 12, Left-Green Alliance 6, Liberal Party 2

India:
  bicameral Parliament or Sansad consists of the Council of
  States or Rajya Sabha (a body consisting of not more than 250
  members, up to 12 of which are appointed by the president, the
  remainder are chosen by the elected members of the state and
  territorial assemblies; members serve six-year terms) and the
  People's Assembly or Lok Sabha (545 seats; 543 elected by popular
  vote, 2 appointed by the president; members serve five-year terms)

  elections:  People's Assembly - last held 5 September through 3
  October 1999 (next to be held NA 2004)

  election results:  People's Assembly - percent of vote by party -
  BJP alliance 40.8%, Congress alliance 33.8%, other 25.4%; seats by
  party - BJP alliance 304, Congress alliance 134, other 107

Indonesia:
  unicameral House of Representatives or Dewan Perwakilan
  Rakyat (DPR) (500 seats; 462 elected by popular vote, 38 are
  appointed military representatives; members serve five-year terms)

  elections:  last held 7 June 1999 (next to be held NA June 2004)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - PDI-P 37.4%, Golkar
  20.9%, PKB 17.4%, PPP 10.7%, PAN 7.3%, PBB 1.8%, other 4.5%; seats
  by party - PDI-P 154, Golkar 120, PPP 58, PKB 51, PAN 35, PBB 14,
  other 30

Iran:
  unicameral Islamic Consultative Assembly or
  Majles-e-Shura-ye-Eslami (290 seats, note - changed from 270 seats
  with the 18 February 2000 election; members elected by popular vote
  to serve four-year terms)

  elections:  last held 18 February-NA April 2000 (next to be held NA
  2004)

  election results:  percent of vote - NA%; seats by party - reformers
  170, conservatives 45, and independents 10; 65 seats were up for
  runoff election on 5 May 2000 (reformers 52, conservatives 10,
  independents 3)

Iraq:
  unicameral National Assembly or Majlis al-Watani (250 seats;
  30 appointed by the president to represent the three northern
  provinces of Dahuk, Arbil, and As Sulaymaniyah; 220 elected by
  popular vote; members serve four-year terms)

  elections:  last held 27 March 2000 (next to be held NA March 2004)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
  NA

Ireland:
  bicameral Parliament or Oireachtas consists of the Senate
  or Seanad Eireann (60 seats - 49 elected by the universities and
  from candidates put forward by five vocational panels, 11 are
  nominated by the prime minister; members serve five-year terms) and
  the House of Representatives or Dail Eireann (166 seats; members are
  elected by popular vote on the basis of proportional representation
  to serve five-year terms)

  elections:  Senate - last held NA August 1997 (next to be held NA
  2002); House of Representatives - last held 6 June 1997 (next to be
  held NA 2002)

  election results:  Senate - percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by
  party - Fianna Fail 29, Fine Gael 16, Labor Party 4, Progressive
  Democrats 4, others 7; House of Representatives - percent of vote by
  party - NA%; seats by party - Fianna Fail 76, Fine Gael 53, Labor
  Party 19, Progressive Democrats 4, Democratic Left 4, Green Alliance
  2, Sinn Fein 1, independents 7; note - seats by party in the House
  of Representatives as of 1 January 2001 were as follows: Fianna Fail
  76, Fine Gael 54, Labor Party 21, Progressive Democrats 4, Green
  Alliance 2, Socialist Party 1, Sinn Fein 1, independents 7

Israel:
  unicameral Knesset or parliament (120 seats; members elected
  by popular vote to serve four-year terms)

  elections:  last held 17 May 1999 (next to be held NA November 2003)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - One Israel 20.2%,
  Likud Party 14.1%, Shas 13%, MERETZ 7.6%, Yisra'el Ba'Aliya 5.1%,
  Shinui 5%, Center Party 5%, National Religious Party 4.2%, United
  Torah Judaism 3.7%, United Arab List 3.4%, National Union 3%, Hadash
  2.6%, Yisra'el Beiteinu 2.6%, Balad 1.9%, One Nation 1.9%,
  Democratic Movement NA (party formed after election, members elected
  under Yisra'el Ba'Aliya list); seats by party - One Israel 26, Likud
  Party 19, Shas 17, MERETZ 10, Yisra'el Ba'Aliya 4, Shinui 6, Center
  Party 6, National Religious Party 5, United Torah Judaism 5, United
  Arab List 5, National Union 4, Hadash 3, Yisra'el Beiteinu 4,
  Democratic Movement 2 (party formed after election, members elected
  under Yisra'el Ba'Aliya list), Balad 2, One Nation 2

Italy:
  bicameral Parliament or Parlamento consists of the Senate or
  Senato della Repubblica (315 seats elected by popular vote of which
  232 are directly elected and 83 are elected by regional proportional
  representation plus, in addition, there are a small number of
  senators-for-life including former presidents of the republic;
  members serve five-year terms) and the Chamber of Deputies or Camera
  dei Deputati (630 seats; 475 are directly elected, 155 by regional
  proportional representation; members serve five-year terms)

  elections:  Senate - last held 13 May 2001 (next to be held NA
  2006); Chamber of Deputies - last held 13 May 2001 (next to be held
  NA 2006)

  election results:  Senate - percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by
  party - House of Liberties 177 (Forza Italia 82, National Alliance
  46, CCD-CDU 29, Northern League 17, others 3), Olive Tree 128
  (Democrats of the Left 62, Daisy Alliance 42, Sunflower Alliance 16,
  Italian Communist Party 3, independents 5), non-affiliated with
  either coalition 10, senators for life 9; Chamber of Deputies -
  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party - House of Liberties
  367 (Forza Italia 189, National Alliance 96, CCD-CDU 40, Northern
  League 30, others 12), Olive Tree 248 (Democrats of the Left 138,
  Daisy Alliance 76, Sunflower Alliance 18, Italian Communist Party 9,
  independents 7), non-affiliated with either coalition 15

Jamaica:
  bicameral Parliament consists of the Senate (a 21-member
  body appointed by the governor general on the recommendations of the
  prime minister and the leader of the opposition; ruling party is
  allocated 13 seats, and the opposition is allocated eight seats) and
  the House of Representatives (60 seats; members are elected by
  popular vote to serve five-year terms)

  elections:  last held 18 December 1997 (next to be held by March
  2002)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
  PNP 50, JLP 10

Japan:
  bicameral Diet or Kokkai consists of the House of Councillors
  or Sangi-in (252 seats; one-half of the members elected every three
  years - 76 seats of which are elected from the 47 multi-seat
  prefectural districts and 50 of which are elected from a single
  nationwide list; members elected by popular vote to serve six-year
  terms) and the House of Representatives or Shugi-in (480 seats - 180
  of which are elected from 11 regional blocks on a proportional
  representation basis and 300 of which are elected from 300
  single-seat districts; members elected by popular vote to serve
  four-year terms)

  elections:  House of Councillors - last held 12 July 1998 (next to
  be held NA July 2001); House of Representatives - last held 25 June
  2000 (next to be held by June 2004)

  election results:  House of Councillors - percent of vote by party -
  NA%; seats by party - LDP 102, DPJ 47, JCP 23, Komeito 22, SDP 13,
  Liberal Party 12, independents 26, others 7; note - the distribution
  of seats as of February 2001 is as follows - LDP 112, DPJ 58,
  Komeito 24, JCP 23, SDP 13, Liberal Party 5, independents 7, others
  10; House of Representatives - percent of vote by party - NA%; seats
  by party - LDP 233, DPJ 127, Komeito 31, Liberal Party 22, JCP 20,
  SDP 19, other 28; note - the distribution of seats as of February
  2001 is as follows - LDP 239, DPJ 129, Komeito 31, Liberal Party 22,
  JCP 20, SDP 19, other 20

Jersey:
  unicameral Assembly of the States (55 voting members - 12
  senators, 12 constables or heads of parishes, 29 deputies; all
  elected for six-year terms, half elected every third year; the
  bailiff and the deputy bailiff; and 3 non-voting members - the Dean
  of Jersey, the Attorney General and the Solicitor General all
  appointed by the monarch

  elections:  last held NA (next to be held NA)

  election results:  percent of vote - NA%; seats - independents 52

Jordan:
  bicameral National Assembly or Majlis al-'Umma consists of
  the Senate (a 40-member body appointed by the monarch from
  designated categories of public figures; members serve four-year
  terms) and the House of Representatives (80 seats; members elected
  by popular vote on the basis of proportional representation to serve
  four-year terms)

  elections:  House of Representatives - last held 4 November 1997
  (next to be held NA November 2001)

  election results:  House of Representatives - percent of vote by
  party - NA%; seats by party - National Constitutional Party 2, Arab
  Land Party 1, independents 75, other 2

  note:  the House of Representatives has been convened and dissolved
  by the monarch several times since 1974; in November 1989 the first
  parliamentary elections in 22 years were held

Kazakhstan:
  bicameral Parliament consists of the Senate (47 seats; 7
  senators are appointed by the president; other members are popularly
  elected, two from each of the former oblasts and the former capital
  of Almaty, to serve six-year terms) and the Majilis (67 seats; the
  addition of 10 "Party List" seats brings the total to 77; members
  are popularly elected to serve five-year terms); note - with the
  oblasts being reduced to 14, the Senate will eventually be reduced
  to 37; a number of Senate seats come up for reelection every two
  years

  elections:  Senate - (indirect) last held 17 September 1999 (next to
  be held NA 2001); Majilis - last held 10 and 24 October and 26
  December 1999 (next to be held NA 2004)

  election results:  Senate - percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by
  party - NA; 16 seats up for election in 1999, candidates nominated
  by local councils; Majilis - percent of vote by party - NA%; seats
  by party - Otan 23, Civic Party 13, Communist Party 3, Agrarian
  Party 3, People's Cooperative Party 1, independents 34; note - most
  independent candidates are affiliated with parastatal enterprises
  and other pro-government institutions

Kenya:
  unicameral National Assembly or Bunge (222 seats; 210 members
  elected by popular vote to serve five-year terms, 12 so-called
  "nominated" members who are appointed by the president, but selected
  by the parties in proportion to their parliamentary vote totals)

  elections:  last held 29 December 1997 (next to be held by early
  2003)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
  KANU 107, FORD-A 1, FORD-K 17, FORD-People 3, DP 39, NDP 21, SDP 15,
  SAFINA 5, smaller parties 2; seats appointed by the president - KANU
  6, FORD-K 1, DP 2, SDP 1, NDP 1, SAFINA 1

Kiribati:
  unicameral House of Assembly or Maneaba Ni Maungatabu (41
  seats; 39 elected by popular vote, one ex officio member, and one
  nominated to represent Banaba; members serve four-year terms)

  elections:  last held 23 September 1998 (next to be held by NA
  September 2002)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
  Maneaban Te Mauri Party 14, National Progressive Party 11,
  independents 14

Korea, North:
  unicameral Supreme People's Assembly or Ch'oego Inmin
  Hoeui (687 seats; members elected by popular vote to serve five-year
  terms)

  elections:  last held 26 July 1998 (next to be held NA 2003)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
  the KWP approves a single list of candidates who are elected without
  opposition; minor parties hold a few seats

Korea, South:
  unicameral National Assembly or Kukhoe (273 seats
  total - 227 elected by direct, popular vote; members serve four-year
  terms)

  elections:  last held 13 April 2000 (next to be held NA April 2004)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
  GNP 133, MDP 115, ULD 17, other 8

Kuwait:
  unicameral National Assembly or Majlis al-Umma (50 seats;
  members elected by popular vote to serve four-year terms)

  elections:  last held 3 July 1999 (next to be held NA 2003)

  election results:  percent of vote - NA%; seats - independents 50;
  note - all cabinet ministers are also ex officio members of the
  National Assembly

Kyrgyzstan:
  bicameral Supreme Council or Zhogorku Kenesh consists of
  the Assembly of People's Representatives (70 seats; members are
  elected by popular vote to serve five-year terms) and the
  Legislative Assembly (35 seats; members are elected by popular vote
  to serve five-year terms)

  elections:  Assembly of People's Representatives - last held 20
  February and 12 March 2000 (next to be held NA February 2005);
  Legislative Assembly - last held 20 February and 12 March 2000 (next
  to be held NA February 2005)

  election results:  Assembly of People's Representatives - percent of
  vote by party - NA%; percent of vote by party - NA; and Legislative
  Assembly - percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party - NA; note
  - total seats by party in the Supreme Council were as follows: Union
  of Democratic Forces 12, Communists 6, My Country Party of Action 4,
  independents 73, other 10

  note:  the legislature became bicameral for the 5 February 1995
  elections; the 2000 election results include both the Assembly of
  People's Representatives and the Legislative Assembly

Laos:
  unicameral National Assembly (99 seats; members elected by
  popular vote to serve five-year terms; note - by presidential
  decree, on 27 October 1997, the number of seats increased from 85 to
  99)

  elections:  last held 21 December 1997 (next to be held NA 2002)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
  LPRP or LPRP-approved (independent, non-party members) 99

Latvia:
  unicameral Parliament or Saeima (100 seats; members are
  elected by direct popular vote to serve four-year terms)

  elections:  last held 3 October 1998 (next to be held NA October
  2002)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - People's Party 21%, LC
  18%, TSP 14%, TB/LNNK 14%, Social Democrats 13%, New Party 7%; seats
  by party - People's Party 24, LC 21, TB/LNNK 17, TSP 16, Social
  Democrats 14, New Party 8

Lebanon:
  unicameral National Assembly or Majlis Alnuwab (Arabic) or
  Assemblee Nationale (French) (128 seats; members elected by popular
  vote on the basis of sectarian proportional representation to serve
  four-year terms)

  elections:  last held 27 August and 3 September 2000 (next to be
  held NA 2004)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - Muslim 57% (of which
  Sunni 25%, Sh'ite 25%, Druze 6%, Alawite less than 1%), Christian
  43% (of which Maronite 23%); seats by party - Muslim 64 (of which
  Sunni 27, Sh'ite 27, Druze 8, Alawite 2), Christian 64 (of which
  Maronite 34)

Lesotho:
  bicameral Parliament consists of the Senate (33 members -
  22 principal chiefs and 11 other members appointed by the ruling
  party) and the Assembly (80 seats; members elected by popular vote
  for five-year terms); note - number of seats in the Assembly rose
  from 65 to 80 in the May 1998 election; on 28 February 2001, the
  Senate approved expansion of the Assembly by a further 50 seats in
  the next election, which may be held as early as January 2002

  elections:  last held 23 May 1998 (next to be held NA March 2001)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - LCD 60.7%, BNP 24.5%,
  other 14.8%; seats by party - LCD 79, BNP 1

  note:  results contested; opposition parties claimed the election
  was fraudulent and staged a coup; Southern African Development
  Community (SADC) forces intervened in September 1998 and restored
  order; the Interim Political Authority (IPA) was set up in December
  1998 to create a new electoral system and conduct new elections.

Liberia:
  bicameral National Assembly consists of the Senate (26
  seats; members elected by popular vote to serve nine-year terms) and
  the House of Representatives (64 seats; members elected by popular
  vote to serve six-year terms)

  elections:  Senate - last held 19 July 1997 (next to be held in NA
  2006); House of Representatives - last held 19 July 1997 (next to be
  held in NA 2003)

  election results:  Senate - percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by
  party - NPP 21, UP 3, ALCOP 2; House of Representatives - percent of
  vote by party - NA%; seats by party - NPP 49, UP 7, ALCOP 3,
  Alliance of Political Parties 2, UPP 2, LPP 1; note - the Alliance
  of Political Parties was a coalition of the LAP and the Liberia
  Unification Party or LUP

Libya:
  unicameral General People's Congress (NA seats; members
  elected indirectly through a hierarchy of people's committees)

Liechtenstein:
  unicameral Diet or Landtag (25 seats; members are
  elected by direct popular vote under proportional representation to
  serve four-year terms)

  elections:  last held on 9-11 February 2001 (next to be held by NA
  2005)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - FBP 49.90%, VU 41.35%,
  FL 8.71%; seats by party - FBP 13, VU 11, FL 1

Lithuania:
  unicameral Parliament or Seimas (141 seats, 71 members
  are directly elected by popular vote, 70 are elected by proportional
  representation; members serve four-year terms)

  elections:  last held 8 October 2000 (next to be held NA October
  2004)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - Social Democratic
  Coalition 31.1%, New Union/Social Liberals 19.6%, Liberal Union
  17.2%, TS 8.6%, remaining parties all less than 5%; seats by party -
  Social Democratic Coalition 52, Liberal Union 34, New Union/Social
  Liberals 29, TS 9, Farmer's Party 4, Center Union 2, Poles'
  Electoral Action 2, Modern Christian Democratic Union 1,
  independents 3, others 5

Luxembourg:
  unicameral Chamber of Deputies or Chambre des Deputes
  (60 seats; members are elected by direct popular vote to serve
  five-year terms)

  elections:  last held 13 June 1999 (next to be held by NA June 2004)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - CSV 29.79%, DP 21.58%,
  LSAP 23.75%, ADR 10.36%, Green Party 9.09%, the Left 3.77%; seats by
  party - CSV 19, DP 15, LSAP 13, ADR 6, Green Party 5, the Left 2

  note:  the Council of State or Conseil d'Etat, which has 21 members
  who are appointed and dismissed by the Grand Duke based on proposals
  from the government, the Chamber of Deputies, or the Council of
  State, is an advisory body whose views are considered by the Chamber
  of Deputies

Macau:
  unicameral Legislative Council or LEGCO (23 seats; 8 elected
  by popular vote, 8 by indirect vote, and 7 appointed by the chief
  executive; members serve four-year terms)

  elections:  last held 22 September 1996 (next to be held by 15
  October 2001)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
  APPEM 2, UNIPRO 2, CODEM 1, UDM 1, UPD 1, ANMD 1

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  unicameral Assembly or
  Sobranje (120 seats - 85 members are elected by popular vote, 35
  members come from lists of candidates submitted by parties based on
  the percentage that parties gain from the overall vote; all serve
  four-year terms)

  elections:  last held 18 October and 1 November 1998 (next to be
  held NA 2002)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
  VMRO-DPMNE 43, SDSM 27, PDP 14, DA 13, DPA 11, VMRO-VMRO 6, LDP 4,
  SP 1, Roma Party 1

Madagascar:
  unicameral National Assembly or Assemblee Nationale (150
  seats; members are directly elected by popular vote to serve
  four-year terms); note - the legislature is scheduled to become a
  bicameral Parliament with the establishment of a Senate; two-thirds
  of the seats of this Senate will be filled by regional assemblies
  whose members will be elected by popular vote; the remaining
  one-third of the seats will be appointed by the president; the total
  number of seats will be determined by the National Assembly; all
  members will serve four-year terms

  elections:  National Assembly - last held 17 May 1998 (next to be
  held NA 2002)

  election results:  National Assembly - percent of vote by party -
  NA%; seats by party - AREMA 63, LEADER/Fanilo 16, AVI 14, RPSD 11,
  AFFA 6, MFM 3, AKFM/Fanavaozana 3, GRAD/Iloafo 1, Fihaonana 1,
  independents 32

Malawi:
  unicameral National Assembly (193 seats; members elected by
  popular vote to serve five-year terms)

  elections:  last held 15 June 1999 (next to be held NA 2004)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - UDF 48%, MCP 34%,
  AFORD 15%, others 3%; seats by party - UDF 94, MCP 66, AFORD 29,
  others 4

Malaysia:
  bicameral Parliament or Parlimen consists of nonelected
  Senate or Dewan Negara (69 seats; 43 appointed by the paramount
  ruler, 26 appointed by the state legislatures) and the House of
  Representatives or Dewan Rakyat (193 seats; members elected by
  popular vote weighted toward the rural Malay population to serve
  five-year terms)

  elections:  House of Representatives - last held 29 November 1999
  (next must be held by 20 December 2004)

  election results:  House of Representatives - percent of vote by
  party - NF 56%, other 44%; seats by party - NF 148, PAS 27, DAP 10,
  NJP 5, PBS 3

Maldives:
  unicameral People's Council or Majlis (50 seats; 42
  elected by popular vote, 8 appointed by the president; members serve
  five-year terms)

  elections:  last held 20 November 1999 (next to be held NA November
  2004)

  election results:  percent of vote - NA%; seats - independents 42

Mali:
  unicameral National Assembly or Assemblee Nationale (147
  seats; members are elected by popular vote to serve five-year terms)

  elections:  last held 20 July and 3 August 1997 (next to be held in
  two rounds in 2002); note - much of the opposition boycotted the
  election

  election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
  ADEMA 130, PARENA 8, CDS 4, UDD 3, PDP 2

Malta:
  unicameral House of Representatives (usually 65 seats; note -
  additional seats are given to the party with the largest popular
  vote to ensure a legislative majority; members are elected by
  popular vote on the basis of proportional representation to serve
  five-year terms)

  elections:  last held 5 September 1998 (next to be held by September
  2003)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - PN 51.8%, MLP 46.9%,
  AD 1.2%; seats by party - PN 35, MLP 30

Man, Isle of:
  bicameral Tynwald consists of the Legislative Council
  (a 11-member body composed of the President of Tynwald, the Lord
  Bishop of Sodor and Man, a nonvoting attorney general, and 8 others
  named by the House of Keys) and the House of Keys (24 seats; members
  are elected by popular vote to serve five-year terms)

  elections:  House of Keys - last held 21 November 1996 (next to be
  held NA November 2001)

  election results:  House of Keys - percent of vote by party - NA%;
  seats by party - independents 24

Marshall Islands:
  unicameral Parliament or Nitijela (33 seats;
  members elected by popular vote to serve four-year terms)

  elections:  last held 15 November 1999 (next to be held NA November
  2003)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
  NA

  note:  the Council of Chiefs is a 12-member body that advises on
  matters affecting customary law and practice

Martinique:
  unicameral General Council or Conseil General (45 seats;
  members are elected by popular vote to serve six-year terms) and a
  unicameral Regional Assembly or Conseil Regional (41 seats; members
  are elected by popular vote to serve six-year terms)

  elections:  General Council - last held NA March 2000 (next to be
  held NA 2006); Regional Assembly - last held on 15 March 1998 (next
  to be held by March 2004)

  election results:  General Council - percent of vote by party - NA%;
  seats by party - NA; note - the PPM won a plurality; Regional
  Assembly - percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party - RPR-UDF
  14, MIM 13, PPM 7, left parties 4, PMS 3

  note:  Martinique elects 2 seats to the French Senate; elections
  last held NA September 1998 (next to be held September 2001);
  results - percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party - PPM 2;
  Martinique also elects 4 seats to the French National Assembly;
  elections last held 1 June 1997 (next to be held NA 2002); results -
  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party - RPR 2, PS 1,
  independent 1

Mauritania:
  bicameral legislature consists of the Senate or Majlis
  al-Shuyukh (56 seats; 17 up for election every two years; members
  elected by municipal leaders to serve six-year terms) and the
  National Assembly or Majlis al-Watani (79 seats; members elected by
  popular vote to serve five-year terms)

  elections:  Senate - last held 17 April 1998 (next to be held NA
  2001); National Assembly - last held 11 and 18 October 1996 (next to
  be held NA 2001)

  election results:  Senate - percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by
  party - NA; National Assembly - percent of vote by party - NA%;
  seats by party - PRDS 71, AC 1, independents and other 7

Mauritius:
  unicameral National Assembly (66 seats - 62 elected by
  popular vote, 4 appointed by the election commission from the losing
  political parties to give representation to various ethnic
  minorities; members serve five-year terms)

  elections:  last held on 11 September 2000 (next to be held by
  September 2005)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - MSM/MMM 52.3%,
  MLP/PMSD 36.9%, OPR 10.8%; seats by party - MSM/MMM 54, MLP/PMSD 6,
  OPR 2

Mayotte:
  unicameral General Council or Conseil General (19 seats;
  members are elected by popular vote to serve three-year terms)

  elections:  last held 7 October 2000 (next to be held NA 2003)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
  NA

  note:  Mayotte elects one member of the French Senate; elections
  last held 24 September 1995 (next to be held 24 September 2001);
  results - percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party - MPM 1;
  Mayotte also elects one member to the French National Assembly;
  elections last held 25 May and 1 June 1997 (next to be held as a
  special election on NA May 2002); results - percent of vote by party
  - UDF/FD 51.7%, RPR 48.3%; seats by party - UDF/FD 1

Mexico:
  bicameral National Congress or Congreso de la Union consists
  of the Senate or Camara de Senadores (128 seats; 96 are elected by
  popular vote to serve six-year terms, and 32 are allocated on the
  basis of each party's popular vote) and the Federal Chamber of
  Deputies or Camara Federal de Diputados (500 seats; 300 members are
  directly elected by popular vote to serve three-year terms;
  remaining 200 members are allocated on the basis of each party's
  popular vote, also for three-year terms)

  elections:  Senate - last held 2 July 2000 for all of the seats
  (next to be held NA 2006); Chamber of Deputies - last held 2 July
  2000 (next to be held NA 2003)

  election results:  Senate - percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by
  party - PRI 59, PAN 45, PRD 17, PVEM 5, PT 1, PCD 1; Chamber of
  Deputies - percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party - PRI 211,
  PAN 208, PRD 50, PVEM 16, PT 7, PCD 3, PSN 3, PAS 2

Micronesia, Federated States of:
  unicameral Congress (14 seats;
  members elected by popular vote; four - one elected from each of
  state - to serve four-year terms and 10 - elected from single-member
  districts delineated by population - to serve two-year terms)

  elections:  elections for four-year term seats last held 2 March
  1999 (next to be held NA March 2003); elections for two-year term
  seats last held 6 March 2001 (next to be held NA March 2003)

  election results:  percent of vote - NA%; seats - independents 14

Moldova:
  unicameral Parliament or Parlamentul (101 seats; parties
  and electoral blocs, as well as independent candidates, elected by
  popular vote to serve four-year terms)

  elections:  last held 25 February 2001 (next to be held NA 2005)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - PCM 50.1%, Braghis
  Alliance 13.4%, PPCD 8.2%, other parties 28.3%; seats by party - PCM
  71, Braghis Alliance 19, PPCD 11

Monaco:
  unicameral National Council or Conseil National (18 seats;
  members are elected by popular vote to serve five-year terms)

  elections:  last held 1 and 8 February 1998 (next to be held NA
  January 2003)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
  UND 18

Mongolia:
  unicameral State Great Hural (76 seats; members elected by
  popular vote to serve four-year terms)

  elections:  last held 2 July 2000 (next to be held NA July 2004)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
  MPRP 72, other 4

Montserrat:
  unicameral Legislative Council (11 seats, 7 popularly
  elected; members serve five-year terms)

  elections:  last held 11 November 1996 (next to be held by NA
  November 2001)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
  PPA 2, MNR 2, NPP 1, independent 2

Morocco:
  bicameral Parliament consists of an upper house or Chamber
  of Counselors (270 seats; members elected indirectly by local
  councils, professional organizations, and labor syndicates for
  nine-year terms; one-third of the members are renewed every three
  years) and a lower house or Chamber of Representatives (325 seats;
  members elected by popular vote for five-year terms)

  elections:  Chamber of Counselors - last held 15 September 2000
  (next to be held NA 2002); Chamber of Representatives - last held 14
  November 1997 (next to be held NA November 2002)

  election results:  Chamber of Counselors - percent of vote by party
  - NA%; seats by party - NA; Chamber of Representatives - percent of
  vote by party - NA%; seats by party - USFP 57, UC 50, RNI 46, MP 40,
  MDS 32, IP 32, MNP 19, PND 10, MPCD 9, PPS 9, FFD 9, PSD 5, OADP 4,
  PA 2, PDI 1

  note:  CDT, UTM, UGTM, UNMT are all labor unions listed under
  Political pressure groups and leaders; see explanation in the
  description of Parliament

Mozambique:
  unicameral Assembly of the Republic or Assembleia da
  Republica (250 seats; members are directly elected by popular vote
  on a secret ballot to serve five-year terms)

  elections:  last held 3-5 December 1999 (next to be held NA 2004)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - Frelimo 48.54%,
  Renamo-UE 38.81%; seats by party - Frelimo 133, Renamo-UE 117

  note:  Renamo-UE ran as a multiparty coalition; none of the other
  opposition parties received the 5% required to win parliamentary
  seats

Namibia:
  bicameral legislature consists of the National Council (26
  seats; two members are chosen from each regional council to serve
  six-year terms) and the National Assembly (72 seats; members are
  elected by popular vote to serve five-year terms)

  elections:  National Council - elections for regional councils, to
  determine members of the National Council, held 30 November-1
  December 1998 (next to be held by December 2004); National Assembly
  - last held 30 November-1 December 1999 (next to be held by December
  2004)

  election results:  National Council - percent of vote by party -
  NA%; seats by party - SWAPO 21, DTA 4, UDF 1; National Assembly -
  percent of vote by party - SWAPO 76%, COD 10%, DTA 9%, UDF 3%, MAG
  1%, other 1%; seats by party - SWAPO 55, COD 7, DTA 7, UDF 2, MAG 1,

  note:  the National Council is primarily an advisory body

Nauru:
  unicameral Parliament (18 seats; members elected by popular
  vote to serve three-year terms)

  elections:  last held 9 April 2000 (next to be held NA April 2003)

  election results:  percent of vote - NA%; seats - independents 18

Nepal:
  bicameral Parliament consists of the National Council (60
  seats; 35 appointed by the House of Representatives, 10 by the king,
  and 15 elected by an electoral college; one-third of the members
  elected every two years to serve six-year terms) and the House of
  Representatives (205 seats; members elected by popular vote to serve
  five-year terms)

  elections:  House of Representatives - last held 3 and 17 May 1999
  (next to be held NA May 2004)

  election results:  House of Representatives - percent of vote by
  party - NC 37.3%, CPN/UML 31.6%, NDP 10.4%, NSP 3.2%, Rastriya Jana
  Morcha 1.4%, Samyukta Janmorcha Nepal 0.8%, NWPP 0.5%, others 14.8%;
  seats by party - NC 113, CPN/UML 69, NDP 11, NSP 5, Rastriya Jana
  Morcha 5, Samyukta Janmorcha Nepal 1, NWPP 1

Netherlands:
  bicameral States General or Staten Generaal consists of
  the First Chamber or Eerste Kamer (75 seats; members indirectly
  elected by the country's 12 provincial councils for four-year terms)
  and the Second Chamber or Tweede Kamer (150 seats; members directly
  elected by popular vote to serve four-year terms)

  elections:  First Chamber - last held 25 May 1999 (next to be held
  NA May 2003); Second Chamber - last held 6 May 1998 (next to be held
  May 2002)

  election results:  First Chamber - percent of vote by party - NA%;
  seats by party - CDA 20, VVD 19, PvdA 15, D'66 4, other 17; Second
  Chamber - percent of vote by party - PvdA 30.0%, VVD 25.3%, CDA
  19.3%, D'66 9.3%, other 16.1%; seats by party - PvdA 45, VVD 38, CDA
  29, D'66 14, other 24

Netherlands Antilles:
  unicameral States or Staten (22 seats; members
  are elected by popular vote to serve four-year terms)

  elections:  last held 30 January 1998 (next to be held by NA 2002)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
  PAR 4, PNP 3, SPA 1, PDB 2, UPB 1, MAN 2, PLKP 3, WIPM 1, SEA 1,
  DP-St. M 2, FOL 2; no party won enough seats to form a government

  note:  the government of Prime Minister Miguel POURIER is a
  coalition of several parties; current seats by party - PAR 4, PNP 3,
  FOL 2, MAN 2, UPB 2, DP-St. M 2, PDB 1, SEA 1, WIPM 1, other 4

New Caledonia:
  unicameral Territorial Congress or Congres
  Territorial (54 seats; members are members of the three Provincial
  Assemblies or Assemblees Provinciales elected by popular vote to
  serve five-year terms)

  elections:  last held 9 May 1999 (next to be held NA 2004)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
  RPCR 24, FLNKS 12, UNI 6, FCCI 4, FN 4, Alliance pour la Caledonie
  3, LKS 1

  note:  New Caledonia elects 1 seat to the French Senate; elections
  last held 27 September 1992 (next to be held NA September 2001);
  results - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party - RPR 1; New
  Caledonia also elects 2 seats to the French National Assembly;
  elections last held 25 May-1 June 1997 (next to be held NA 2002);
  results - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party - RPR 2

New Zealand:
  unicameral House of Representatives - commonly called
  Parliament (120 seats; members elected by popular vote in
  single-member constituencies to serve three-year terms)

  elections:  last held 27 November 1999 (next must be called by
  November 2002)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
  NZLP 49, NP 39, Alliance 10, ACT New Zealand 9, Green Party 7, NZFP
  5, UNZ 1

  note:  NZLP and Alliance formed the government coalition; the
  National Party became the opposition party

Nicaragua:
  unicameral National Assembly or Asamblea Nacional (93
  seats; members are elected by proportional representation to serve
  five-year terms)

  elections:  last held 20 October 1996 (next to be held 4 November
  2001)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - Liberal Alliance
  (ruling party - includes PLC, PALI, PLIUN, and PUCA) 46.03%, FSLN
  36.55%, PCCN 3.73%, PCN 2.12%, MRS 1.33%; seats by party - Liberal
  Alliance 42, FSLN 36, PCCN 4, PCN 3, PRONAL 2, MRS 1, PRN 1, PC 1,
  PLI 1, AU 1, UNO-96 Alliance 1

Niger:
  unicameral National Assembly (83 seats, members elected by
  popular vote for five-year terms)

  elections:  last held 24 November 1999 (next to be held NA 2004)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
  MNSD-Nassara 38, CDS-Rahama 17, PNDS-Tarayya 16, RDP-Jama'a 8,
  ANDPS-Zaman Lahiya 4

Nigeria:
  bicameral National Assembly consists of Senate (109 seats,
  three from each state and one from the Federal Capital Territory;
  members elected by popular vote to serve four-year terms) and House
  of Representatives (360 seats, members elected by popular vote to
  serve four-year terms)

  elections:  Senate - last held 20-24 February 1999 (next to be held
  NA 2003); House of Representatives - last held 20-24 February 1999
  (next to be held NA 2003)

  election results:  Senate - percent of vote by party - PDP 58%, APP
  23%, AD 19%; seats by party - PDP 67, APP 23, AD 19; House of
  Representatives - percent of vote by party - PDP 58%, APP 30%, AD
  12%; seats by party - PDP 221, APP 70, AD 69

Niue:
  unicameral Legislative Assembly (20 seats; members elected by
  popular vote to serve three-year terms; six elected from a common
  roll and 14 are village representatives)

  elections:  last held 19 March 1999 (next to be held NA March 2002)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
  NPP 9, independents 11

Norfolk Island:
  unicameral Legislative Assembly (9 seats; members
  elected by electors who have nine equal votes each but only four
  votes can be given to any one candidate; members serve three-year
  terms)

  elections:  last held 23 February 2000 (next to be held by March
  2003)

  election results:  percent of vote - NA%; seats - independents 9

Northern Mariana Islands:
  bicameral Legislature consists of the
  Senate (9 seats; members are elected by popular vote to serve
  four-year staggered terms) and the House of Representatives (18
  seats; members are elected by popular vote to serve two-year terms)

  elections:  Senate - last held 9 November 1999 (next to be held NA
  November 2001); House of Representatives - last held 9 November 1999
  (next to be held NA November 2001)

  election results:  Senate - percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by
  party - Republican Party 6, Democratic Party 2, Reform Party 1;
  House of Representatives - percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by
  party - Republican Party 10, Democratic Party 8

  note:  the Commonwealth does not have a nonvoting delegate in the US
  Congress; instead, it has an elected official or "resident
  representative" located in Washington, DC; seats by party -
  Republican Party 1 (Juan N. BABAUTA)

Norway:
  modified unicameral Parliament or Storting which, for
  certain purposes, divides itself into two chambers (165 seats;
  members are elected by popular vote by proportional representation
  to serve four-year terms)

  elections:  last held 15 September 1997 (next to be held 10
  September 2001)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - Labor Party 35%,
  Center Party 7.9%, Conservative Party 14.3%, Christian People's
  Party 13.7%, Socialist Left Party 6%, Progress Party 15.3%, Liberal
  Party 4.4%, other parties 1.6%; seats by party - Labor Party 65,
  Center Party 11, Conservative Party 23, Christian People's Party 25,
  Socialist Left Party 9, Progress Party 25, Liberal Party 6, other
  parties 1

  note:  for certain purposes, the Parliament divides itself into two
  chambers and elects one-fourth of its membership to an upper house
  or Lagting

Oman:
  bicameral Majlis Oman consists of an upper chamber or Majlis
  al-Dawla (48 seats; members appointed by the monarch; has advisory
  powers only) and a lower chamber or Majlis al-Shura (83 seats;
  members elected by limited suffrage, however, the monarch makes
  final selections and can negate election results; body has some
  limited power to propose legislation, but otherwise has only
  advisory powers)

  elections:  last held NA September 2000 (next to be held NA
  September 2003)

  election results:  NA; note - two women were elected for the first
  time to Majlis al-Shura, about 100,000 people voted

Pakistan:
  note - Gen. Pervez MUSHARRAF dissolved Parliament
  following the military takeover of 12 October 1999; bicameral
  Parliament or Majlis-e-Shoora consists of the Senate (87 seats;
  members indirectly elected by provincial assemblies to serve
  six-year terms; one-third of the members up for election every two
  years) and the National Assembly (217 seats - 10 represent
  non-Muslims; members elected by popular vote to serve five-year
  terms)

  elections:  Senate - last held 12 March 1997 (next to be held NA);
  National Assembly - last held 3 February 1997 (next to be held NA);
  note - no timetable has yet been given for elections following the
  military takeover

  election results:  Senate - percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by
  party - PML/N 30, PPP 17, ANP 7, MQM/A 6, JWP 5, BNP 4, JUI/F 2,
  PML/J 2, BNM/M 1, PKMAP 1, TJP 1, independents 6, vacant 5; National
  Assembly - percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party - PML/N
  137, PPP 18, MQM/A 12, ANP 10, BNP 3, JWP 2, JUI/F 2, PPP/SB 1, NPP
  1, independents 21, minorities 10; note - Gen. Pervez MUSHARRAF
  dismissed Parliament 15 October 1999

Palau:
  bicameral Parliament or Olbiil Era Kelulau (OEK) consists of
  the Senate (16 seats; members elected by popular vote on a
  population basis to serve four-year terms) and the House of
  Delegates (16 seats; members elected by popular vote to serve
  four-year terms)

  elections:  Senate - last held 7 November 2000 (next to be held NA
  November 2004); House of Delegates - last held 7 November 2000 (next
  to be held NA November 2004)

  election results:  Senate - percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by
  party - NA; House of Delegates - percent of vote by party - NA%;
  seats by party - NA

Panama:
  unicameral Legislative Assembly or Asamblea Legislativa (71
  seats; members are elected by popular vote to serve five-year terms)

  elections:  last held 2 May 1999 (next to be held NA May 2004)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
  PRD 34, PA 18, PDC 5, PS 4, MOLIRENA 3, PLN 3, Democratic Change 2,
  PRC 1, MORENA 1

  note:  legislators from outlying rural districts are chosen on a
  plurality basis while districts located in more populous towns and
  cities elect multiple legislators by means of a proportion-based
  formula

Papua New Guinea:
  unicameral National Parliament - sometimes
  referred to as the House of Assembly (109 seats, 89 elected from
  open electorates and 20 from provincial electorates; members elected
  by popular vote to serve five-year terms)

  elections:  last held 14-28 June 1997 (next to be held NA June 2002)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - PPP 15%, Pangu Pati
  14%, NA 14%, PDM 8%, PNC 6%, PAP 5%, UP 3%, NP 1%, PUP 1%,
  independents 33%; seats by party - PPP 16, Pangu Pati 15, NA 15, PDM
  9, PNC 7, PAP 5, UP 3, NP 1, PUP 1, independents 37; note -
  association with political parties is very fluid

Paraguay:
  bicameral Congress or Congreso consists of the Chamber of
  Senators or Camara de Senadores (45 seats; members are elected by
  popular vote to serve five-year terms) and the Chamber of Deputies
  or Camara de Diputados (80 seats; members are elected by popular
  vote to serve five-year terms)

  elections:  Chamber of Senators - last held 10 May 1998 (next to be
  held NA May 2003); Chamber of Deputies - last held 10 May 1998 (next
  to be held NA May 2003)

  election results:  Chamber of Senators - percent of vote by party -
  NA%; seats by party - Colorado Party 25, PLRA 13, PEN 7; Chamber of
  Deputies - percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party - Colorado
  Party 45, PLRA 26, PEN 9

Peru:
  unicameral Democratic Constituent Congress or Congresso
  Constituyente Democratico (120 seats; members are elected by popular
  vote to serve five-year terms)

  elections:  last held 9 April 2000 (next to be held 8 April 2001)

  note:  many congressmen defected to and then from former President
  FUJIMORI's coalition in 2000

  election results:  percent of vote by party - Peru 2000 42.16%, Peru
  Possible 23.34%, FIM 7.56%, Somos Peru 7.2%, APRA 5.5%, others
  14.24%; seats by party - Peru 2000 52, Peru Possible 29, FIM 9,
  others 30

Philippines:
  bicameral Congress or Kongreso consists of the Senate
  or Senado (24 seats - one-half elected every three years; members
  elected by popular vote to serve six-year terms) and the House of
  Representatives or Kapulungan Ng Mga Kinatawan (204 seats; members
  elected by popular vote to serve three-year terms; note - additional
  members may be appointed by the president but the Constitution
  prohibits the House of Representatives from having more than 250
  members)

  elections:  Senate - last held 11 May 1998 (next to be held 14 May
  2001); House of Representatives - elections last held 11 May 1998
  (next to be held 14 May 2001)

  election results:  Senate - percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by
  party - LAMP 12, Lakas 5, PRP 2, LP 1, other 3; note - the Senate
  now has only 22 members with one seat vacated when Gloria
  MACAPAGAL-ARROYO became vice president and another seat vacated upon
  a senator's death; the two seats can only be filled by election and
  will remain open until the next regular election in May 2001; House
  of Representatives - percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party
  - LAMP 135, Lakas 37, LP 13, Aksyon Demokratiko 1, other 35

Pitcairn Islands:
  unicameral Island Council (10 seats - 6 elected by
  popular vote, 1 appointed by the 6 elected members, 2 appointed by
  the governor, and 1 seat for the Island Secretary; members serve
  one-year terms)

  elections:  take place each December; last held NA December 2000
  (next to be held NA December 2001)

  election results:  percent of vote - NA%; seats - all independents

Poland:
  bicameral National Assembly or Zgromadzenie Narodowe
  consists of the Sejm (460 seats; members are elected under a complex
  system of proportional representation to serve four-year terms) and
  the Senate or Senat (100 seats; members are elected by a majority
  vote on a provincial basis to serve four-year terms)

  elections:  Sejm elections last held 21 September 1997 (next to be
  held by NA September 2001); Senate - last held 21 September 1997
  (next to be held by NA September 2001)

  election results:  Sejm - percent of vote by party - AWS 33.8%, SLD
  27.1%, UW 13.4%, PSL 7.3%, ROP 5.6%, MNSO 0.4%, other 12.4%; seats
  by party - AWS 201, SLD 164, UW 60, PSL 27, ROP 6, MNSO 2; Senate -
  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party - AWS 51, SLD 28, UW
  8, ROP 5, PSL 3, independents 5; note - seats by party in the Sejm
  as of February 2001: AWS 175, SLD 161, UW 49, PSL 26, PP 6, KdP 7,
  ROP-PC 4, independents 31, one seat vacant

  note:  two seats are assigned to ethnic minority parties

Portugal:
  unicameral Assembly of the Republic or Assembleia da
  Republica (230 seats; members are elected by popular vote to serve
  four-year terms)

  elections:  last held 10 October 1999 (next to be held by NA October
  2003)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
  PS 115, PSD 81, PCP 15, PP 15, PEV 2, The Left Bloc 2

Puerto Rico:
  bicameral Legislative Assembly consists of the Senate
  (28 seats; members are directly elected by popular vote to serve
  four-year terms) and the House of Representatives (54 seats; members
  are directly elected by popular vote to serve four-year terms)

  elections:  Senate - last held 7 November 2000 (next to be held NA
  November 2004); House of Representatives - last held 7 November 2000
  (next to be held NA November 2004)

  election results:  Senate - percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by
  party - PNP 19, PPD 7, PIP 1, other 1; House of Representatives -
  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party - PNP 30, PPD 20, PIP
  1, other 3

  note:  Puerto Rico elects one nonvoting representative to the US
  House of Representatives; elections last held 7 November 2000 (next
  to be held NA November 2004); results - percent of vote by party -
  NA; seats by party - PPD 1 (Anibal ACEVEDO-VILA)

Qatar:
  unicameral Advisory Council or Majlis al-Shura (35 seats;
  members appointed)

  note:  the constitution calls for elections for part of this
  consultative body, but no elections have been held since 1970, when
  there were partial elections to the body; Council members have their
  terms extended every four years since

Reunion:
  unicameral General Council (47 seats; members are elected
  by direct popular vote to serve six-year terms) and a unicameral
  Regional Council (45 seats; members are elected by direct popular
  vote to serve six-year terms)

  elections:  General Council - last held NA March 1994 (next to be
  held NA 2000); Regional Council - last held 15 March 1998 (next to
  be held NA 2004)

  election results:  General Council - percent of vote by party - NA%;
  seats by party - PCR 12, PS 12, UDF 11, RPR 5, others 7; Regional
  Council - percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party - PCR 7,
  UDF 8, PS 6, RPR 4, various right-wing candidates 15, various
  left-wing candidates 5

  note:  Reunion elects three representatives to the French Senate;
  elections last held 14 April 1996 (next to be held NA 2001); results
  - percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party - RPR 1, PCR 2;
  Reunion also elects five deputies to the French National Assembly;
  elections last held 25 May and 1 June 1997 (next to be held NA
  2002); results - percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
  PCR 3, PS 1, and RPR-UDF 1

Romania:
  bicameral Parliament or Parlament consists of the Senate or
  Senat (140 seats; members are elected by direct popular vote on a
  proportional representation basis to serve four-year terms) and the
  Chamber of Deputies or Adunarea Deputatilor (345 seats; members are
  elected by direct popular vote on a proportional representation
  basis to serve four-year terms)

  elections:  Senate - last held 26 November 2000 (next to be held in
  the fall of 2004); Chamber of Deputies - last held 26 November 2000
  (next to be held in the fall of 2004)

  election results:  Senate - percent of vote by party - PDSR 37.1%,
  PRM 21.0%, PD 7.6%, PNL 7.5%, UDMR 6.9%; seats by party - PDSR 65,
  PRM 37, PD 13, PNL 13, UDMR 12; Chamber of Deputies - percent of
  vote by party - PDSR 36.6%, PRM 19.5%, PD 7.0%, PNL, 6.9%, UDMR
  6.8%; seats by party - PDSR 155, PRM 84, PD 31, PNL 30, UDMR 27,
  ethnic minorities 18

Russia:
  bicameral Federal Assembly or Federalnoye Sobraniye consists
  of the Federation Council or Sovet Federatsii (178 seats; as of July
  2000, members appointed by the top executive and legislative
  officials in each of the 89 federal administrative units - oblasts,
  krays, republics, autonomous okrugs and oblasts, and the federal
  cities of Moscow and Saint Petersburg; members serve four-year
  terms) and the State Duma or Gosudarstvennaya Duma (450 seats; half
  elected by proportional representation from party lists winning at
  least 5% of the vote, and half from single-member constituencies;
  members are elected by direct popular vote to serve four-year terms)

  elections:  State Duma - last held 19 December 1999 (next to be held
  NA December 2003)

  election results:  State Duma - percent of vote received by parties
  clearing the 5% threshold entitling them to a proportional share of
  the 225 party list seats - KPRF 24.29%, Unity 23.32%, OVR 13.33%,
  Union of Right Forces 8.52%, LDPR 5.98%, Yabloko 5.93%; seats by
  party - KPRF 113, Unity 72, OVR 67, Union of Rightist Forces 29,
  LDPR 17, Yabloko 21, other 16, independents 106, repeat election
  required 8, vacant 1

Rwanda:
  unicameral Transitional National Assembly or Assemblee
  Nationale de Transition (a power-sharing body with 70 seats
  established on 12 December 1994 following a multiparty protocol of
  understanding; members were named by their parties, number of seats
  per party predetermined by the Arusha peace accord)

  note:  four additional seats, two for women and two for youth, added
  in 2001

  elections:  the last national legislative elections were held 16
  December 1988 for the National Development Council (the legislature
  prior to the advent of the Transitional National Assembly); no
  elections have been held for the Transitional National Assembly as
  the distribution of seats was predetermined by the Arusha peace
  accord

  election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
  FPR 13, MDR 13, PSD 13, PL 13, PDC 6, RPA 6, PSR 2, PDI 2, UDPR 2;
  note - the distribution of seats was predetermined, four additional
  seats (two for women and two for youth) added in 2001

Saint Helena:
  unicameral Legislative Council (15 seats, including
  the speaker, 3 ex officio and 12 elected members; members are
  elected by popular vote to serve four-year terms)

  elections:  last held 9 July 1997 (next to be held NA August 2001)

  election results:  percent of vote - NA%; seats - independents 15

Saint Kitts and Nevis:
  unicameral National Assembly (14 seats, 3
  appointed and 11 popularly elected from single-member
  constituencies; members serve five-year terms)

  elections:  last held 6 March 2000 (next to be held by July 2005)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
  SKNLP 8, CCM 2, NRP 1

Saint Lucia:
  bicameral Parliament consists of the Senate (11 seats;
  six members appointed on the advice of the prime minister, three on
  the advice of the leader of the opposition, and two after
  consultation with religious, economic, and social groups) and the
  House of Assembly (17 seats; members are elected by popular vote
  from single-member constituencies to serve five-year terms)

  elections:  House of Assembly - last held 23 May 1997 (next to be
  held NA 2002)

  election results:  House of Assembly - percent of vote by party -
  NA%; seats by party - SLP 16, UWP 1

Saint Pierre and Miquelon:
  unicameral General Council or Conseil
  General (19 seats - 15 from Saint Pierre and 4 from Miquelon;
  members are elected by popular vote to serve six-year terms)

  elections:  elections last held NA April 2000 (next to be held NA
  April 2006)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
  NA

  note:  Saint Pierre and Miquelon elect 1 seat to the French Senate;
  elections last held NA September 1995 (next to be held NA September
  2004); results - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by party - RPR
  1; Saint Pierre and Miquelon also elects 1 seat to the French
  National Assembly; elections last held 25 May-1 June 1997 (next to
  be held NA 2002); results - percent of vote by party - NA; seats by
  party - UDF 1

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:
  unicameral House of Assembly (21
  seats, 15 elected representatives and 6 appointed senators;
  representatives are elected by popular vote from single-member
  constituencies to serve five-year terms)

  elections:  last held 28 March 2001 (next to be held by NA March
  2006)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
  ULP 12, NDP 3

Samoa:
  unicameral Legislative Assembly or Fono (49 seats - 47
  elected by Samoans, 2 elected by non-Samoans; only chiefs (matai)
  may stand for election to the Fono; members serve five-year terms)

  elections:  last held 4 March 2001 (next to be held by March 2006)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
  HRPP 23, SNDP 13, independents 13

San Marino:
  unicameral Grand and General Council or Consiglio Grande
  e Generale (60 seats; members are elected by direct popular vote to
  serve five-year terms)

  elections:  last held 31 May 1998 (next likely to be held by NA June
  2001)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - PDCS 40.8%, PSS 23.3%,
  PPDS 18.6%, APDS 9.8%, RC 3.3%, SR 4.2%; seats by party - PDCS 25,
  PSS 14, PPDS 11, APDS 6, RC 2, SR 2

Sao Tome and Principe:
  unicameral National Assembly or Assembleia
  Nacional (55 seats; members are elected by direct popular vote to
  serve five-year terms)

  elections:  last held 8 November 1998 (next to be held NA November
  2003)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - MLSTP-PSD 56%, PCD
  14.5%, ADI 29%; seats by party - MLSTP-PSD 31, ADI 16, PCD 8

Saudi Arabia:
  a consultative council (90 members and a chairman
  appointed by the monarch for four-year terms)

Senegal:
  unicameral National Assembly or Assemblee Nationale (120
  seats; members are elected by direct popular vote to serve five-year
  terms)

  note:  the former National Assembly, dissolved in the spring of
  2001, had 140 seats

  elections:  last held 29 April 2001 (next to be held NA 2006)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
  SOPI Coalition 89, AFP 11, PS 10, other 10

Seychelles:
  unicameral National Assembly or Assemblee Nationale (34
  seats - 25 elected by popular vote, 9 allocated on a proportional
  basis to parties winning at least ten percent of the vote; members
  serve five-year terms)

  elections:  last held 20-22 March 1998 (next to be held by NA 2003)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - SPPF 61.7%, UO 26.1%,
  DP 12.1%; seats by party - SPPF 30, UO 3, DP 1

  note:  the 9 awarded seats are apportioned according to the share of
  each party in the total vote

Sierra Leone:
  unicameral House of Representatives (80 seats - 68
  elected by popular vote, 12 filled by paramount chiefs elected in
  separate elections; members serve five-year terms)

  elections:  last held 26-27 February 1996 (next to be held NA 2001)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - SLPP 36.1%, UNPP
  21.6%, PDP 15.3%, APC 5.7%, NUP 5.3%, DCP 4.8%, other 11.2%; seats
  by party - SLPP 27, UNPP 17, PDP 12, APC 5, NUP 4, DCP 3; note -
  first elections since the former House of Representatives was shut
  down by the military coup of 29 April 1992

Singapore:
  unicameral Parliament (83 seats; members elected by
  popular vote to serve five-year terms)

  elections:  last held 2 January 1997 (next to be held by 26 August
  2002)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - PAP 65% (in contested
  constituencies), other 35%; seats by party - PAP 81, WP 1, SPP 1;
  note - subsequent to the election, there was a change in the
  distribution of seats, the new distribution is as follows: PAP 80,
  WP 1, SPP 1, vacant 1

Slovakia:
  unicameral National Council of the Slovak Republic or
  Narodna Rada Slovenskej Republiky (150 seats; members are elected on
  the basis of proportional representation to serve four-year terms)

  elections:  last held 25-26 September 1998 (next to be held NA
  September 2002)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - HZDS 27%, SDK 26.3%,
  SDL 14.7%, SMK 9.1%, SNS 9.1%, SOP 8%; seats by party - governing
  coalition 93 (SDK 42, SDL 23, SMK 15, SOP 13), opposition 57 (HZDS
  43, SNS 14)

Slovenia:
  unicameral National Assembly or Drzavni Zbor (90 seats, 40
  are directly elected and 50 are selected on a proportional basis;
  note - the numbers of directly elected and proportionally elected
  seats varies with each election; members are elected by popular vote
  to serve four-year terms)

  elections:  National Assembly - last held 15 October 2000 (next to
  be held NA October 2004)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - LDS 36%, SDS 16%, ZLSD
  12%, SLS/SKD 10%, NSI 9%, SMS 4%, SNS 4%, DeSUS 5%, other 4%; seats
  by party - LDS 34, SDS 14, ZLDS 11, SLS/SKD 9, NSI 8, SMS 4, SNS 4,
  DeSUS 4, other 2

  note:  the National Council or Drzavni Svet is an advisory body with
  limited legislative powers; it may propose laws and ask to review
  any National Assembly decisions; in the election of NA November
  1997, 40 members were elected to represent local, professional, and
  socioeconomic interests (next election to be held in the fall of
  2002)

Solomon Islands:
  unicameral National Parliament (50 seats; members
  elected from single member constituencies by popular vote to serve
  four-year terms)

  elections:  last held 6 August 1997 (next to be held by August 2001)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
  GNUR 21, PAP 7, NAPSI 5, SILP 4, UP 4, independents 6, other 3

Somalia:
  unicameral People's Assembly or Golaha Shacbiga

  note:  fledgling parliament; a transitional 245-member National
  Assembly began to meet on 13 August 2000 in the town of Arta,
  Djibouti and is now based in Mogadishu

South Africa:
  bicameral parliament consisting of the National
  Assembly (400 seats; members are elected by popular vote under a
  system of proportional representation to serve five-year terms) and
  the National Council of Provinces (90 seats, 10 members elected by
  each of the nine provincial legislatures for five-year terms; has
  special powers to protect regional interests, including the
  safeguarding of cultural and linguistic traditions among ethnic
  minorities); note - following the implementation of the new
  constitution on 3 February 1997 the former Senate was disbanded and
  replaced by the National Council of Provinces with essentially no
  change in membership and party affiliations, although the new
  institution's responsibilities have been changed somewhat by the new
  constitution

  elections:  National Assembly and National Council of Provinces -
  last held 2 June 1999 (next to be held NA 2004)

  election results:  National Assembly - percent of vote by party -
  ANC 66.4%, DP 9.6%, IFP 8.6%, NP 6.9%, UDM 3.4%, ACDP 1.4%, FF 0.8%,
  other 2.9%; seats by party - ANC 266, DP 38, IFP 34, NP 28, UDM 14,
  ACDP 6, FF 3, other 11; National Council of Provinces - percent of
  vote by party - NA%; seats by party - ANC 61, NP 17, FF 4, IFP 5, DP
  3

Spain:
  bicameral; General Courts or National Assembly or Las Cortes
  Generales consists of the Senate or Senado (259 seats - 208 members
  directly elected by popular vote and the other 51 appointed by the
  regional legislatures to serve four-year terms) and the Congress of
  Deputies or Congreso de los Diputados (350 seats; members are
  elected by popular vote on block lists by proportional
  representation to serve four-year terms)

  elections:  Senate - last held 12 March 2000 (next to be held NA
  March 2004); Congress of Deputies - last held 12 March 2000 (next to
  be held NA March 2004)

  election results:  Senate - percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by
  party - PP 127, PSOE 61, CiU 8, PNV 6, CC 5, PIL 1; Congress of
  Deputies - percent of vote by party - PP 44.5%, PSOE 34%, CiU 4.2%,
  IU 5.4%, PNV 1.5%, CC 1%, BNG 1.3%; seats by party - PP 183, PSOE
  125, CiU 15, IU 8, PNV 7, CC 4, BNG 3, other 5

Sri Lanka:
  unicameral Parliament (225 seats; members elected by
  popular vote on the basis of a modified proportional representation
  system by district to serve six-year terms)

  elections:  last held 10 October 2000 (next to be held NA October
  2006)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - PA 45.11%, UNP 40.22%,
  JVP 6%, NUA 2.29%, SU 1.48%, TULF 1.23%, other 3.67%; seats by party
  - PA 107, UNP 89, JVP 10, TULF 5, EPDP 4, NUA 4, TELO 3, ACTC 1, SU
  1, independent 1

Sudan:
  unicameral National Assembly (400 seats; 275 elected by
  popular vote, 125 elected by a supra assembly of interest groups
  known as the National Congress)

  elections:  last held 13-23 December 2000 (next to be held NA)

  election results:  NA; few parties participated in the 2000 elections

  note:  on 12 December 1999, BASHIR dismissed the National Assembly
  during an internal power struggle between the president and speaker
  of the National Assembly Hasan al-TURABI

Suriname:
  unicameral National Assembly or Nationale Assemblee (51
  seats; members are elected by popular vote to serve five-year terms)

  elections:  last held 5 May 2000 (next to be held NA May 2005)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
  NF 33, MC 10, DNP 2000 3, DA '91 2, PVF 2, PALU 1

  note:  widespread demonstrations during the summer of 1999 led to
  the calling of elections a year early

Swaziland:
  bicameral Parliament or Libandla, an advisory body,
  consists of the Senate (30 seats - 10 appointed by the House of
  Assembly and 20 appointed by the monarch; members serve five-year
  terms) and the House of Assembly (65 seats - 10 appointed by the
  monarch and 55 elected by popular vote; members serve five-year
  terms)

  elections:  House of Assembly - last held 16 and 24 October 1998
  (next to be held NA 2003)

  election results:  House of Assembly - balloting is done on a
  nonparty basis; candidates for election are nominated by the local
  council of each constituency and for each constituency the three
  candidates with the most votes in the first round of voting are
  narrowed to a single winner by a second round

Sweden:
  unicameral Parliament or Riksdag (349 seats; members are
  elected by popular vote on a proportional representation basis to
  serve four-year terms)

  elections:  last held 20 September 1998 (next to be held NA
  September 2002)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - Social Democrats
  36.5%, Moderates 22.7%, Left Party 12%, Christian Democrats 11.8%,
  Center Party 5.1%, Liberal Party 4.7%, Greens 4.5%; seats by party -
  Social Democrats 131, Moderates 82, Left Party 43, Christian
  Democrats 42, Center Party 18, Liberal Party 17, Greens 16

Switzerland:
  bicameral Federal Assembly or Bundesversammlung (in
  German), Assemblee Federale (in French), Assemblea Federale (in
  Italian) consists of the Council of States or Standerat (in German),
  Conseil des Etats (in French), Consiglio degli Stati (in Italian)
  (46 seats - members serve four-year terms) and the National Council
  or Nationalrat (in German), Conseil National (in French), Consiglio
  Nazionale (in Italian) (200 seats - members are elected by popular
  vote on a basis of proportional representation to serve four-year
  terms)

  elections:  Council of States - last held in 1999 (each canton
  determines when the next election will be held); National Council -
  last held 24 October 1999 (next to be held NA October 2003)

  election results:  Council of States - percent of vote by party -
  NA%; seats by party - FDP 18, CVP 15, SVP 7, SPS 6; National Council
  - percent of vote by party - SPS 22.5%, SVP 22.6%, FDP 19.9%, CVP
  15.8%, other small parties all under 5%; seats by party - SPS 51,
  SVP 44, FDP 43, CVP 35, Greens 9, other small parties 18

Syria:
  unicameral People's Council or Majlis al-shaab (250 seats;
  members elected by popular vote to serve four-year terms)

  elections:  last held 30 November-1 December 1998 (next to be held
  NA 2002)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - NPF 67%, non-NPF 33%;
  seats by party - NPF 167, independents 83; note - the constitution
  guarantees that the Ba'th Party (part of the NPF alliance) receive
  one-half of the seats

Tajikistan:
  bicameral Supreme Assembly or Majlisi Oli consists of
  the Assembly of Representatives (lower chamber) or Majlisi
  Namoyandagon (63 seats; members are elected by popular vote to serve
  five-year terms) and National Assembly (upper chamber) or Majlisi
  Milliy (33 seats; members are indirectly elected, 25 selected by
  local deputies, 8 appointed by the president; all to serve five-year
  terms)

  elections:  last held 27 February and 12 March 2000 for the Assembly
  of Representatives (next to be held NA 2005) and 23 March 2000 for
  the National Assembly (next to be held NA 2005)

  election results:  Assembly of Representatives - percent of vote by
  party - PDPT 65%, Communist Party 20%, Islamic Rebirth Party 7.5%,
  other 7.5%; seats by party - NA; National Assembly - percent of vote
  by party - NA%; seats by party - NA

Tanzania:
  unicameral National Assembly or Bunge (274 seats - 232
  elected by popular vote, 37 allocated to women nominated by the
  president, five to members of the Zanzibar House of Representatives;
  members serve five-year terms); note - in addition to enacting laws
  that apply to the entire United Republic of Tanzania, the Assembly
  enacts laws that apply only to the mainland; Zanzibar has its own
  House of Representatives to make laws especially for Zanzibar (the
  Zanzibar House of Representatives has 50 seats, directly elected by
  universal suffrage to serve five-year terms)

  elections:  last held 29 October 2000 (next to be held NA October
  2005)

  election results:  National Assembly: percent of vote by party -
  NA%; seats by party - CCM 244, CUF 16, CHADEMA 4, TLP 3, UDP 2,
  Zanzibar representatives 5; Zanzibar House of Representatives:
  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party - CCM 34, CUF 16

Thailand:
  bicameral National Assembly or Rathasapha consists of the
  Senate or Wuthisapha (200 seats; members elected by popular vote to
  serve four-year terms) and the House of Representatives or Sapha
  Phuthaen Ratsadon (500 seats; members elected by popular vote to
  serve four-year terms)

  elections:  Senate - last held 4 March, 29 April, 4 June, 9 July,
  and 22 July 2000 (next to be held NA March 2004); House of
  Representatives - last held 6 January 2001 (next to be held NA
  January 2005)

  election results:  Senate - percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by
  party - NA; House of Representatives - percent of vote by party -
  NA%; seats by party - TRT 248, DP 128, TNP 41, NAP 36, NDP 29, other
  18

Togo:
  unicameral National Assembly (81 seats; members are elected by
  popular vote to serve five-year terms)

  elections:  last held 21 March 1999 (next due to be held NA October
  2001)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
  RPT 79, independents 2

  note:  Togo's main opposition parties boycotted the election because
  of EYADEMA's alleged manipulation of 1998 presidential polling; in
  March of 1999, opposition parties entered into negotiations with the
  president over the establishment of an independent electoral
  commission and a new round of legislative elections, now scheduled
  for October 2001

Tokelau:
  unicameral General Fono (45 seats - 15 from each of the
  three atolls; members chosen by each atoll's Council of Elders or
  Taupulega to serve three-year terms); note - the Tokelau Amendment
  Act of 1996 confers legislative power on the General Fono

Tonga:
  unicameral Legislative Assembly or Fale Alea (30 seats - 12
  reserved for cabinet ministers sitting ex officio, nine for nobles
  selected by the country's 33 nobles, and nine elected by popular
  vote; members serve three-year terms)

  elections:  last held NA March 1999 (next to be held NA 2002)

  election results:  percent of vote - pro-democratic 40%; seats -
  pro-democratic 5, traditionalist 4

Trinidad and Tobago:
  bicameral Parliament consists of the Senate (31
  seats; members appointed by the president for a maximum term of five
  years) and the House of Representatives (36 seats; members are
  elected by popular vote to serve five-year terms)

  elections:  House of Representatives - last held 11 December 2000
  (next to be held by December 2005)

  election results:  House of Representatives - percent of vote - UNC
  58.1%, PNM 40.8%, NAR 1.1%; seats by party - UNC 19, PNM 16, NAR 1

  note:  Tobago has a unicameral House of Assembly, with 15 members
  serving four-year terms

Tunisia:
  unicameral Chamber of Deputies or Majlis al-Nuwaab (182
  seats; members elected by popular vote to serve five-year terms)

  elections:  last held 24 October 1999 (next to be held NA 2004)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - RCD 92%; seats by
  party - RCD 148, MDS 13, UDU 7, PUP 7, Al-Tajdid 5, PSL 2; note -
  reforms enabled opposition parties to win up to 20% of seats; the
  opposition increased number of seats from 19 to 34

Turkey:
  unicameral Grand National Assembly of Turkey or Turkiye
  Buyuk Millet Meclisi (550 seats; members are elected by popular vote
  to serve five-year terms)

  elections:  last held 18 April 1999 (next to be held NA 2004)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
  DSP 136, MHP 130, FP 110, DYP 86, ANAP 88; note - as of 7 March 2000
  seating was DSP 136, MHP 127, FP 103, DYP 85, ANAP 88 independents
  6, vacancies 5

Turkmenistan:
  under the 1992 constitution, there are two
  parliamentary bodies, a unicameral People's Council or Halk
  Maslahaty (more than 100 seats, some of which are elected by popular
  vote and some of which are appointed; meets infrequently) and a
  unicameral Assembly or Majlis (50 seats; members are elected by
  popular vote to serve five-year terms)

  elections:  People's Council - NA; Assembly - last held 12 December
  1999 (next to be held NA 2004)

  election results:  Assembly - percent of vote by party - NA%; seats
  by party - NA; note - all 50 elected officials preapproved by
  President NIYAZOV; most are from the DPT

Turks and Caicos Islands:
  unicameral Legislative Council (19 seats,
  of which 13 are popularly elected; members serve four-year terms)

  elections:  last held 4 March 1999 (next to be held by NA 2003)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - PDM 52.2%, PNP 40.9%,
  independent 6.9%; seats by party - PDM 9, PNP 4

Tuvalu:
  unicameral Parliament or Fale I Fono, also called House of
  Assembly (12 seats; members elected by popular vote to serve
  four-year terms)

  elections:  last held 26-27 March 1998 (next to be held by NA 2002)

  election results:  percent of vote - NA%; seats - independents 12

Uganda:
  unicameral National Assembly (276 members - 214 directly
  elected by popular vote, 62 nominated by legally established special
  interest groups and approved by the president - women 39, army 10,
  disabled 5, youth 5, labor 3; members serve five-year terms)

  elections:  last held 27 June 1996 (next to be held May or June
  2001);

  election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
  NA; note - election campaigning by party was not permitted

Ukraine:
  unicameral Supreme Council or Verkhovna Rada (450 seats;
  under Ukraine's new election law, half of the Supreme Council's
  seats are allocated on a proportional basis to those parties that
  gain 4% or more of the national electoral vote; the other 225
  members are elected by popular vote in single-mandate
  constituencies; all serve four-year terms)

  elections:  last held 29 March 1998 (next to be held NA 2002)

  election results:  percent of vote by party (for parties clearing 4%
  hurdle on 29 March 1998) - Communist Party 24.7%, Rukh (combined)
  9.4%, SPU/SelPU 8.6%, PZU 5.3%, People's Democratic Party 5.0%,
  Hromada Party 4.7%, Progressive Socialist Party 4.0%, United Social
  Democratic Party 4.0%; seats by party (as of 25 February 2000) -
  Communist Party 115, PRVU 36, Fatherland Party 35, United Social
  Democratic Party 34, People's Democratic Party 27, Trudova Ukrayina
  Party 27, Rukh K 27, left-center 23, PZU 18, Rukh U 17, SelPU 15,
  Hromada Party 14, Reforms-Congress 12, independents 14, unaffiliated
  31, vacant 5

United Arab Emirates:
  unicameral Federal National Council or Majlis
  al-Ittihad al-Watani (40 seats; members appointed by the rulers of
  the constituent states to serve two-year terms)

  elections:  none

  note:  reviews legislation, but cannot change or veto

United Kingdom:
  bicameral Parliament comprised of House of Lords
  (consists of approximately 500 life peers, 92 hereditary peers and
  26 clergy) and House of Commons (659 seats; members are elected by
  popular vote to serve five-year terms unless the House is dissolved
  earlier)

  elections:  House of Lords - no elections (some proposals for
  further reform include elections); House of Commons - last held 7
  June 2001 (next to be held by NA May 2006)

  election results:  House of Commons - percent of vote by party -
  NA%; seats by party - Labor 412, Conservative and Unionist 166,
  Liberal Democrat 52, other 29

  note:  in 1998 elections were held for a Northern Ireland Parliament
  (because of unresolved disputes among existing parties, the transfer
  of power from London to Northern Ireland came only at the end of
  1999 and was rescinded in February 2000); in 1999 there were
  elections for a new Scottish Parliament and a new Welsh Assembly

United States:
  bicameral Congress consists of Senate (100 seats,
  one-third are renewed every two years; two members are elected from
  each state by popular vote to serve six-year terms) and House of
  Representatives (435 seats; members are directly elected by popular
  vote to serve two-year terms)

  elections:  Senate - last held 7 November 2000 (next to be held 4
  November 2002); House of Representatives - last held 7 November 2000
  (next to be held 4 November 2002)

  election results:  Senate - percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by
  party - Republican Party 50, Democratic Party 50; House of
  Representatives - percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
  Republican Party 221, Democratic Party 211, independent 2, vacant 1

Uruguay:
  bicameral General Assembly or Asamblea General consists of
  Chamber of Senators or Camara de Senadores (30 seats; members are
  elected by popular vote to serve five-year terms) and Chamber of
  Representatives or Camara de Representantes (99 seats; members are
  elected by popular vote to serve five-year terms)

  elections:  Chamber of Senators - last held 31 October 1999 (next to
  be held NA 2004); Chamber of Representatives - last held 31 October
  1999 (next to be held NA 2004)

  election results:  Chamber of Senators - percent of vote by party -
  NA%; seats by party - Encuentro Progresista 12, Colorado Party 10,
  Blanco 7, New Sector/Space Coalition 1; Chamber of Representatives -
  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party - Encuentro
  Progresista 40, Colorado Party 33, Blanco 22, New Sector/Space
  Coalition 4

Uzbekistan:
  unicameral Supreme Assembly or Oliy Majlis (250 seats;
  members elected by popular vote to serve five-year terms)

  elections:  last held 5 December and 19 December 1999 (next to be
  held NA December 2004)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
  NDP 48, Self-Sacrificers Party 34, Fatherland Progress Party 20,
  Adolat Social Democratic Party 11, MTP 10, citizens' groups 16,
  local government 110, vacant 1

  note:  not all seats in the last Supreme Assembly election were
  contested; all parties in the Supreme Assembly support President
  KARIMOV

Vanuatu:
  unicameral Parliament (52 seats; members elected by popular
  vote to serve four-year terms)

  elections:  last held 6 March 1998 (next to be held NA 2002)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
  VP 18, UMP 12, NUP 11, other and independent 11; note - political
  party associations are fluid; there have been four changes of
  government since the November 1995 elections

  note:  the National Council of Chiefs advises on matters of custom
  and land

Venezuela:
  unicameral National Assembly or Asamblea Nacional; 165
  seats; members elected by popular vote to serve five-year terms;
  three seats reserved for the indigenous peoples of Venezuela

  elections:  last held 30 July 2000 (next to be held NA 2005)

  election results:  Pro-government: percent of vote by party - NA%;
  seats by party - MVR 92, MAS 6, indigenous 3, other parties 7;
  Opposition: percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party - AD 33,
  COPEI 6, Justice First 5, other parties 13

Vietnam:
  unicameral National Assembly or Quoc-Hoi (450 seats;
  members elected by popular vote to serve five-year terms)

  elections:  last held 20 July 1997 (next to be held NA 2002)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - CPV 92%, other 8% (the
  8% are not CPV members but are approved by the CPV to stand for
  election); seats by party - CPV or CPV-approved 450

Virgin Islands:
  unicameral Senate (15 seats; members are elected by
  popular vote to serve two-year terms)

  elections:  last held 7 November 2000 (next to be held NA November
  2002)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
  Democratic Party 6, ICM 2, independents 7

  note:  the Virgin Islands elects one non-voting representative to
  the US House of Representatives; election last held 7 November 2000
  (next to be held NA November 2002); results - Donna M.
  CHRISTIAN-CHRISTENSON (Democrat) elected

Wallis and Futuna:
  unicameral Territorial Assembly or Assemblee
  Territoriale (20 seats; members are elected by popular vote to serve
  five-year terms)

  elections:  last held 16 March 1997 (next to be held NA March 2002)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
  RPR 14, other 6

  note:  Wallis and Futuna elects one senator to the French Senate and
  one deputy to the French National Assembly; French Senate -
  elections last held 27 September 1998 (next to be held by NA
  September 2007); results - percent of vote by party - NA; seats -
  RPR 1; French National Assembly - elections last held 25 May-1 June
  1997 (next to be held by NA March 2002); results - percent of vote
  by party - NA; seats - RPR 1

Yemen:
  a new constitutional amendment ratified on 20 February 2001
  created a bicameral legislature consisting of a Shura Council (111
  seats; members appointed by the president) and a House of
  Representatives (301 seats; members elected by popular vote to serve
  six-year terms)

  elections:  last held 27 April 1997 (next to be held 27 April 2003)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
  GPC 189, Islah 52, Nasserite Unionist Party 3, National Arab
  Socialist Baath Party 2, independents 54, election pending 1; latest
  seats by party: GPC 223, Islah 64, Nasserite Unionist Party 3,
  National Arab Socialist Baath Party 2, YSP 2, independents 7

Yugoslavia:
  bicameral Federal Assembly or Savezna Skupstina consists
  of the Chamber of Republics or Vece Republika (40 seats - 20
  Serbian, 20 Montenegrin; members distributed on the basis of party
  representation in the republican assemblies to serve four-year
  terms; note - the Assembly passed a new constitutional amendment
  calling for direct elections for the deputies to the upper chamber)
  and the Chamber of Citizens or Vece Gradjana (138 seats - 108
  Serbian with half elected by constituency majorities and half by
  proportional representation, 30 Montenegrin with six elected by
  constituency and 24 proportionally; members serve four-year terms)

  elections:  Chamber of Republics - last held 24 September 2000 (next
  to be held NA 2004); Chamber of Citizens - last held 24 September
  2000 (next to be held NA 2004)

  election results:  Chamber of Republics - percent of vote by party -
  NA%; seats by party - SNP 19, DOS 10, SPS/JUL 7, SRS 2, SPO 1, SNS
  1; note - seats are filled on a proportional basis to reflect the
  composition of the legislatures of the republics of Montenegro and
  Serbia; since 1998 Serbia has effectively barred Montenegro from its
  constitutional right to delegate deputies to the Chamber of
  Republics; Chamber of Citizens - percent of vote by party - NA%;
  seats by party - DOS 55, SPS/JUL 46, SNP 28, SRS 4, SNS 2, other 3

Zambia:
  unicameral National Assembly (150 seats; members are elected
  by popular vote to serve five-year terms)

  elections:  last held 18 November 1996 (next to be held NA December
  2001)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - NA%; seats by party -
  MMD 131, NP 5, Zadeco 2, AZ 2, independents 10

Zimbabwe:
  unicameral parliament, called House of Assembly (150 seats
  - 120 elected by popular vote for six-year terms, 12 nominated by
  the president, 10 occupied by traditional chiefs chosen by their
  peers, and 8 occupied by provincial governors)

  elections:  last held 24-25 June 2000 (next to be held NA 2006)

  election results:  percent of vote by party - ZANU-PF 47.2%, MDC
  45.6%, ZANU-Ndonga 0.7%, United Parties 0.7%; seats by party -
  ZANU-PF 63, MDC 56, ZANU-Ndonga 1

Taiwan:
  unicameral Legislative Yuan (225 seats - 168 elected by
  popular vote, 41 elected on the basis of the proportion of
  nationwide votes received by participating political parties, eight
  elected from overseas Chinese constituencies on the basis of the
  proportion of nationwide votes received by participating political
  parties, eight elected by popular vote among the aboriginal
  populations; members serve three-year terms) and unicameral National
  Assembly (300 seats, note - total number of seats has been reduced
  from 334 to 300 since the last election; members are elected by
  proportional representation based on the election of the Legislative
  Yuan and serve four-year terms)

  elections:  Legislative Yuan - last held 5 December 1998 (next to be
  held NA December 2001); National Assembly - last held 23 March 1996
  (next to be held NA June 2002)

  election results:  Legislative Yuan - percent of vote by party - KMT
  46%, DPP 29%, CNP 7%, independents 10%, other parties 8%; seats by
  party - KMT 123, DPP 70, CNP 11, independents 15, other parties 6;
  subsequent to the election there have been some changes in the
  distribution of seats in the Legislative Yuan due to new party
  formation and party defections, the new distribution is as follows -
  KMT 114, DPP 66, PFP 17, NP 9, other/independent 19; National
  Assembly - percent of vote by party - KMT 55%, DPP 30%, CNP 14%,
  other 1%; seats by party - KMT 183, DPP 99, CNP 46, other 6

======================================================================

@Life expectancy at birth



Afghanistan:
  total population:  46.24 years

  male:  46.97 years

  female:  45.47 years (2001 est.)

Albania:
  total population:  71.83 years

  male:  69.01 years

  female:  74.87 years (2001 est.)

Algeria:
  total population:  69.95 years

  male:  68.6 years

  female:  71.34 years (2001 est.)

American Samoa:
  total population:  75.32 years

  male:  70.89 years

  female:  80.02 years (2001 est.)

Andorra:
  total population:  83.47 years

  male:  80.57 years

  female:  86.57 years (2001 est.)

Angola:
  total population:  38.59 years

  male:  37.36 years

  female:  39.87 years (2001 est.)

Anguilla:
  total population:  76.31 years

  male:  73.41 years

  female:  79.29 years (2001 est.)

Antigua and Barbuda:
  total population:  70.74 years

  male:  68.45 years

  female:  73.14 years (2001 est.)

Argentina:
  total population:  75.26 years

  male:  71.88 years

  female:  78.82 years (2001 est.)

Armenia:
  total population:  66.49 years

  male:  62.12 years

  female:  71.08 years (2001 est.)

Aruba:
  total population:  78.52 years

  male:  75.16 years

  female:  82.04 years (2001 est.)

Australia:
  total population:  79.87 years

  male:  77.02 years

  female:  82.87 years (2001 est.)

Austria:
  total population:  77.84 years

  male:  74.68 years

  female:  81.15 years (2001 est.)

Azerbaijan:
  total population:  62.96 years

  male:  58.65 years

  female:  67.49 years (2001 est.)

Bahamas, The:
  total population:  70.46 years

  male:  67.27 years

  female:  73.71 years (2001 est.)

Bahrain:
  total population:  73.2 years

  male:  70.81 years

  female:  75.67 years (2001 est.)

Bangladesh:
  total population:  60.54 years

  male:  60.74 years

  female:  60.33 years (2001 est.)

Barbados:
  total population:  73.25 years

  male:  70.66 years

  female:  75.86 years (2001 est.)

Belarus:
  total population:  68.14 years

  male:  62.06 years

  female:  74.52 years (2001 est.)

Belgium:
  total population:  77.96 years

  male:  74.63 years

  female:  81.46 years (2001 est.)

Belize:
  total population:  71.19 years

  male:  68.91 years

  female:  73.57 years (2001 est.)

Benin:
  total population:  49.94 years

  male:  49.02 years

  female:  50.88 years (2001 est.)

Bermuda:
  total population:  77.12 years

  male:  75.04 years

  female:  79.06 years (2001 est.)

Bhutan:
  total population:  52.79 years

  male:  53.16 years

  female:  52.41 years (2001 est.)

Bolivia:
  total population:  64.06 years

  male:  61.53 years

  female:  66.72 years (2001 est.)

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  total population:  71.75 years

  male:  69.04 years

  female:  74.65 years (2001 est.)

Botswana:
  total population:  37.13 years

  male:  36.77 years

  female:  37.51 years (2001 est.)

Brazil:
  total population:  63.24 years

  male:  58.96 years

  female:  67.73 years (2001 est.)

British Virgin Islands:
  total population:  75.64 years

  male:  74.74 years

  female:  76.59 years (2001 est.)

Brunei:
  total population:  73.82 years

  male:  71.45 years

  female:  76.31 years (2001 est.)

Bulgaria:
  total population:  71.2 years

  male:  67.72 years

  female:  74.89 years (2001 est.)

Burkina Faso:
  total population:  46.41 years

  male:  45.86 years

  female:  46.98 years (2001 est.)

Burma:
  total population:  55.16 years

  male:  53.73 years

  female:  56.68 years (2001 est.)

Burundi:
  total population:  46.06 years

  male:  45.15 years

  female:  46.99 years (2001 est.)

Cambodia:
  total population:  56.82 years

  male:  54.62 years

  female:  59.12 years (2001 est.)

Cameroon:
  total population:  54.59 years

  male:  53.76 years

  female:  55.44 years (2001 est.)

Canada:
  total population:  79.56 years

  male:  76.16 years

  female:  83.13 years (2001 est.)

Cape Verde:
  total population:  69.21 years

  male:  65.93 years

  female:  72.6 years (2001 est.)

Cayman Islands:
  total population:  79.03 years

  male:  76.24 years

  female:  81.43 years (2001 est.)

Central African Republic:
  total population:  43.8 years

  male:  42.17 years

  female:  45.48 years (2001 est.)

Chad:
  total population:  50.88 years

  male:  48.86 years

  female:  52.98 years (2001 est.)

Chile:
  total population:  75.94 years

  male:  72.63 years

  female:  79.42 years (2001 est.)

China:
  total population:  71.62 years

  male:  69.81 years

  female:  73.59 years (2001 est.)

Christmas Island:
  total population:  NA years

  male:  NA years

  female:  NA years

Cocos (Keeling) Islands:
  total population:  NA years

  male:  NA years

  female:  NA years

Colombia:
  total population:  70.57 years

  male:  66.71 years

  female:  74.55 years (2001 est.)

Comoros:
  total population:  60.41 years

  male:  58.2 years

  female:  62.68 years (2001 est.)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  total population:  48.94 years

  male:  46.96 years

  female:  50.98 years (2001 est.)

Congo, Republic of the:
  total population:  47.57 years

  male:  44.38 years

  female:  50.85 years (2001 est.)

Costa Rica:
  total population:  76.02 years

  male:  73.49 years

  female:  78.68 years (2001 est.)

Cote d'Ivoire:
  total population:  44.93 years

  male:  43.58 years

  female:  46.33 years (2001 est.)

Croatia:
  total population:  73.9 years

  male:  70.28 years

  female:  77.73 years (2001 est.)

Cuba:
  total population:  76.41 years

  male:  74.02 years

  female:  78.94 years (2001 est.)

Cyprus:
  total population:  76.89 years

  male:  74.6 years

  female:  79.3 years (2001 est.)

Czech Republic:
  total population:  74.73 years

  male:  71.23 years

  female:  78.43 years (2001 est.)

Denmark:
  total population:  76.72 years

  male:  74.12 years

  female:  79.47 years (2001 est.)

Djibouti:
  total population:  51.21 years

  male:  49.37 years

  female:  53.1 years (2001 est.)

Dominica:
  total population:  73.6 years

  male:  70.74 years

  female:  76.61 years (2001 est.)

Dominican Republic:
  total population:  73.44 years

  male:  71.34 years

  female:  75.64 years (2001 est.)

Ecuador:
  total population:  71.33 years

  male:  68.52 years

  female:  74.28 years (2001 est.)

Egypt:
  total population:  63.69 years

  male:  61.62 years

  female:  65.85 years (2001 est.)

El Salvador:
  total population:  70.03 years

  male:  66.43 years

  female:  73.81 years (2001 est.)

Equatorial Guinea:
  total population:  53.95 years

  male:  51.89 years

  female:  56.07 years (2001 est.)

Eritrea:
  total population:  56.18 years

  male:  53.73 years

  female:  58.71 years (2001 est.)

Estonia:
  total population:  69.73 years

  male:  63.72 years

  female:  76.05 years (2001 est.)

Ethiopia:
  total population:  44.68 years

  male:  43.88 years

  female:  45.51 years (2001 est.)

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas):
  total population:  NA years

  male:  NA years

  female:  NA years

Faroe Islands:
  total population:  78.59 years

  male:  75.12 years

  female:  82.06 years

Fiji:
  total population:  68.25 years

  male:  65.83 years

  female:  70.78 years (2001 est.)

Finland:
  total population:  77.58 years

  male:  73.92 years

  female:  81.36 years (2001 est.)

France:
  total population:  78.9 years

  male:  75.01 years

  female:  83.01 years (2001 est.)

French Guiana:
  total population:  76.3 years

  male:  72.97 years

  female:  79.79 years (2001 est.)

French Polynesia:
  total population:  75.01 years

  male:  72.67 years

  female:  77.46 years (2001 est.)

Gabon:
  total population:  49.59 years

  male:  48.47 years

  female:  50.75 years (2001 est.)

Gambia, The:
  total population:  53.59 years

  male:  51.65 years

  female:  55.58 years (2001 est.)

Gaza Strip:
  total population:  71.01 years

  male:  69.76 years

  female:  72.32 years (2001 est.)

Georgia:
  total population:  64.57 years

  male:  61.04 years

  female:  68.28 years (2001 est.)

Germany:
  total population:  77.61 years

  male:  74.47 years

  female:  80.92 years (2001 est.)

Ghana:
  total population:  57.24 years

  male:  55.86 years

  female:  58.66 years (2001 est.)

Gibraltar:
  total population:  79.09 years

  male:  76.23 years

  female:  82.1 years (2001 est.)

Greece:
  total population:  78.59 years

  male:  76.03 years

  female:  81.32 years (2001 est.)

Greenland:
  total population:  68.37 years

  male:  64.82 years

  female:  72.01 years (2001 est.)

Grenada:
  total population:  64.52 years

  male:  62.74 years

  female:  66.31 years (2001 est.)

Guadeloupe:
  total population:  77.16 years

  male:  74.01 years

  female:  80.48 years (2001 est.)

Guam:
  total population:  77.94 years

  male:  75.66 years

  female:  80.55 years (2001 est.)

Guatemala:
  total population:  66.51 years

  male:  63.85 years

  female:  69.31 years (2001 est.)

Guernsey:
  total population:  79.78 years

  male:  76.78 years

  female:  82.88 years (2001 est.)

Guinea:
  total population:  45.91 years

  male:  43.49 years

  female:  48.42 years (2001 est.)

Guinea-Bissau:
  total population:  49.42 years

  male:  47.12 years

  female:  51.78 years (2001 est.)

Guyana:
  total population:  63.31 years

  male:  60.52 years

  female:  66.24 years (2001 est.)

Haiti:
  total population:  49.38 years

  male:  47.67 years

  female:  51.17 years (2001 est.)

Honduras:
  total population:  69.35 years

  male:  67.51 years

  female:  71.28 years (2001 est.)

Hong Kong:
  total population:  79.67 years

  male:  76.97 years

  female:  82.55 years (2001 est.)

Hungary:
  total population:  71.63 years

  male:  67.28 years

  female:  76.3 years (2001 est.)

Iceland:
  total population:  79.52 years

  male:  77.31 years

  female:  81.92 years (2001 est.)

India:
  total population:  62.86 years

  male:  62.22 years

  female:  63.53 years (2001 est.)

Indonesia:
  total population:  68.27 years

  male:  65.9 years

  female:  70.75 years (2001 est.)

Iran:
  total population:  69.95 years

  male:  68.61 years

  female:  71.37 years (2001 est.)

Iraq:
  total population:  66.95 years

  male:  65.92 years

  female:  68.03 years (2001 est.)

Ireland:
  total population:  76.99 years

  male:  74.23 years

  female:  79.93 years (2001 est.)

Israel:
  total population:  78.71 years

  male:  76.69 years

  female:  80.84 years (2001 est.)

Italy:
  total population:  79.14 years

  male:  75.97 years

  female:  82.52 years (2001 est.)

Jamaica:
  total population:  75.42 years

  male:  73.45 years

  female:  77.49 years (2001 est.)

Japan:
  total population:  80.8 years

  male:  77.62 years

  female:  84.15 years (2001 est.)

Jersey:
  total population:  78.63 years

  male:  76.21 years

  female:  81.23 years (2001 est.)

Jordan:
  total population:  77.53 years

  male:  75.1 years

  female:  80.12 years (2001 est.)

Kazakhstan:
  total population:  63.29 years

  male:  57.87 years

  female:  68.97 years (2001 est.)

Kenya:
  total population:  47.49 years

  male:  46.57 years

  female:  48.44 years (2001 est.)

Kiribati:
  total population:  60.16 years

  male:  57.25 years

  female:  63.22 years (2001 est.)

Korea, North:
  total population:  71.02 years

  male:  68.04 years

  female:  74.15 years (2001 est.)

Korea, South:
  total population:  74.65 years

  male:  70.97 years

  female:  78.74 years (2001 est.)

Kuwait:
  total population:  76.27 years

  male:  75.42 years

  female:  77.15 years (2001 est.)

Kyrgyzstan:
  total population:  63.46 years

  male:  59.2 years

  female:  67.94 years (2001 est.)

Laos:
  total population:  53.48 years

  male:  51.58 years

  female:  55.44 years (2001 est.)

Latvia:
  total population:  68.7 years

  male:  62.8 years

  female:  74.9 years (2001 est.)

Lebanon:
  total population:  71.52 years

  male:  69.13 years

  female:  74.03 years (2001 est.)

Lesotho:
  total population:  48.84 years

  male:  47.97 years

  female:  49.74 years (2001 est.)

Liberia:
  total population:  51.41 years

  male:  49.96 years

  female:  52.91 years (2001 est.)

Libya:
  total population:  75.65 years

  male:  73.53 years

  female:  77.88 years (2001 est.)

Liechtenstein:
  total population:  78.95 years

  male:  75.32 years

  female:  82.6 years (2001 est.)

Lithuania:
  total population:  69.25 years

  male:  63.3 years

  female:  75.5 years (2001 est.)

Luxembourg:
  total population:  77.3 years

  male:  74.02 years

  female:  80.8 years (2001 est.)

Macau:
  total population:  81.69 years

  male:  78.88 years

  female:  84.64 years (2001 est.)

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  total population:  74.02
  years

  male:  71.79 years

  female:  76.43 years (2001 est.)

Madagascar:
  total population:  55.35 years

  male:  53.08 years

  female:  57.68 years (2001 est.)

Malawi:
  total population:  37.08 years

  male:  36.61 years

  female:  37.55 years (2001 est.)

Malaysia:
  total population:  71.11 years

  male:  68.48 years

  female:  73.92 years (2001 est.)

Maldives:
  total population:  62.56 years

  male:  61.39 years

  female:  63.8 years (2001 est.)

Mali:
  total population:  47.02 years

  male:  45.84 years

  female:  48.24 years (2001 est.)

Malta:
  total population:  78.1 years

  male:  75.64 years

  female:  80.79 years (2001 est.)

Man, Isle of:
  total population:  77.64 years

  male:  74.26 years

  female:  81.2 years (2001 est.)

Marshall Islands:
  total population:  65.84 years

  male:  64.04 years

  female:  67.73 years (2001 est.)

Martinique:
  total population:  78.41 years

  male:  79.11 years

  female:  77.69 years (2001 est.)

Mauritania:
  total population:  51.14 years

  male:  49.06 years

  female:  53.29 years (2001 est.)

Mauritius:
  total population:  71.25 years

  male:  67.26 years

  female:  75.31 years (2001 est.)

Mayotte:
  total population:  59.83 years

  male:  57.77 years

  female:  61.96 years (2001 est.)

Mexico:
  total population:  71.76 years

  male:  68.73 years

  female:  74.93 years (2001 est.)

Moldova:
  total population:  64.6 years

  male:  60.15 years

  female:  69.26 years (2001 est.)

Monaco:
  total population:  78.98 years

  male:  75.04 years

  female:  83.12 years (2001 est.)

Mongolia:
  total population:  64.26 years

  male:  62.14 years

  female:  66.5 years (2001 est.)

Montserrat:
  total population:  78.03 years

  male:  75.95 years

  female:  80.22 years (2001 est.)

Morocco:
  total population:  69.43 years

  male:  67.2 years

  female:  71.76 years (2001 est.)

Mozambique:
  total population:  36.45 years

  male:  37.25 years

  female:  35.62 years (2001 est.)

Namibia:
  total population:  40.62 years

  male:  42.48 years

  female:  38.71 years (2001 est.)

Nauru:
  total population:  61.2 years

  male:  57.7 years

  female:  64.88 years (2001 est.)

Nepal:
  total population:  58.22 years

  male:  58.65 years

  female:  57.77 years (2001 est.)

Netherlands:
  total population:  78.43 years

  male:  75.55 years

  female:  81.44 years (2001 est.)

Netherlands Antilles:
  total population:  74.94 years

  male:  72.76 years

  female:  77.22 years (2001 est.)

New Caledonia:
  total population:  73.02 years

  male:  70.08 years

  female:  76.11 years (2001 est.)

New Zealand:
  total population:  77.99 years

  male:  75.01 years

  female:  81.1 years (2001 est.)

Nicaragua:
  total population:  69.05 years

  male:  67.1 years

  female:  71.11 years (2001 est.)

Niger:
  total population:  41.59 years

  male:  41.74 years

  female:  41.44 years (2001 est.)

Nigeria:
  total population:  51.07 years

  male:  51.07 years

  female:  51.07 years (2001 est.)

Niue:
  total population:  NA years

  male:  NA years

  female:  NA years

Norfolk Island:
  total population:  NA years

  male:  NA years

  female:  NA years

Northern Mariana Islands:
  total population:  75.74 years

  male:  72.65 years

  female:  79.02 years (2001 est.)

Norway:
  total population:  78.79 years

  male:  75.87 years

  female:  81.92 years (2001 est.)

Oman:
  total population:  72.04 years

  male:  69.9 years

  female:  74.29 years (2001 est.)

Pakistan:
  total population:  61.45 years

  male:  60.61 years

  female:  62.32 years (2001 est.)

Palau:
  total population:  68.89 years

  male:  65.77 years

  female:  72.19 years (2001 est.)

Panama:
  total population:  75.68 years

  male:  72.94 years

  female:  78.53 years (2001 est.)

Papua New Guinea:
  total population:  63.46 years

  male:  61.39 years

  female:  65.64 years (2001 est.)

Paraguay:
  total population:  73.92 years

  male:  71.44 years

  female:  76.52 years (2001 est.)

Peru:
  total population:  70.3 years

  male:  67.9 years

  female:  72.81 years (2001 est.)

Philippines:
  total population:  67.8 years

  male:  64.96 years

  female:  70.79 years (2001 est.)

Pitcairn Islands:
  total population:  NA years

  male:  NA years

  female:  NA years

Poland:
  total population:  73.42 years

  male:  69.26 years

  female:  77.82 years (2001 est.)

Portugal:
  total population:  75.94 years

  male:  72.44 years

  female:  79.68 years (2001 est.)

Puerto Rico:
  total population:  75.76 years

  male:  71.28 years

  female:  80.48 years (2001 est.)

Qatar:
  total population:  72.62 years

  male:  70.16 years

  female:  75.21 years (2001 est.)

Reunion:
  total population:  72.93 years

  male:  69.53 years

  female:  76.49 years (2001 est.)

Romania:
  total population:  70.16 years

  male:  66.36 years

  female:  74.19 years (2001 est.)

Russia:
  total population:  67.34 years

  male:  62.12 years

  female:  72.83 years (2001 est.)

Rwanda:
  total population:  38.99 years

  male:  38.35 years

  female:  39.65 years (2001 est.)

Saint Helena:
  total population:  77.01 years

  male:  74.13 years

  female:  80.04 years (2001 est.)

Saint Kitts and Nevis:
  total population:  71.01 years

  male:  68.22 years

  female:  73.97 years (2001 est.)

Saint Lucia:
  total population:  72.57 years

  male:  69 years

  female:  76.39 years (2001 est.)

Saint Pierre and Miquelon:
  total population:  77.77 years

  male:  75.51 years

  female:  80.13 years (2001 est.)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:
  total population:  72.56 years

  male:  70.83 years

  female:  74.34 years (2001 est.)

Samoa:
  total population:  69.5 years

  male:  66.77 years

  female:  72.37 years (2001 est.)

San Marino:
  total population:  81.23 years

  male:  77.68 years

  female:  85.1 years (2001 est.)

Sao Tome and Principe:
  total population:  65.59 years

  male:  64.15 years

  female:  67.07 years (2001 est.)

Saudi Arabia:
  total population:  68.09 years

  male:  66.4 years

  female:  69.85 years (2001 est.)

Senegal:
  total population:  62.56 years

  male:  60.94 years

  female:  64.22 years (2001 est.)

Seychelles:
  total population:  70.69 years

  male:  65.17 years

  female:  76.37 years (2001 est.)

Sierra Leone:
  total population:  45.6 years

  male:  42.69 years

  female:  48.61 years (2001 est.)

Singapore:
  total population:  80.17 years

  male:  77.22 years

  female:  83.35 years (2001 est.)

Slovakia:
  total population:  73.97 years

  male:  69.95 years

  female:  78.2 years (2001 est.)

Slovenia:
  total population:  75.08 years

  male:  71.2 years

  female:  79.17 years (2001 est.)

Solomon Islands:
  total population:  71.55 years

  male:  69.12 years

  female:  74.1 years (2001 est.)

Somalia:
  total population:  46.6 years

  male:  44.99 years

  female:  48.25 years (2001 est.)

South Africa:
  total population:  48.09 years

  male:  47.64 years

  female:  48.56 years (2001 est.)

Spain:
  total population:  78.93 years

  male:  75.47 years

  female:  82.62 years (2001 est.)

Sri Lanka:
  total population:  72.09 years

  male:  69.58 years

  female:  74.73 years (2001 est.)

Sudan:
  total population:  56.94 years

  male:  55.85 years

  female:  58.08 years (2001 est.)

Suriname:
  total population:  71.63 years

  male:  68.97 years

  female:  74.42 years (2001 est.)

Svalbard:
  total population:  NA years

  male:  NA years

  female:  NA years

Swaziland:
  total population:  38.62 years

  male:  37.86 years

  female:  39.4 years (2001 est.)

Sweden:
  total population:  79.71 years

  male:  77.07 years

  female:  82.5 years (2001 est.)

Switzerland:
  total population:  79.73 years

  male:  76.85 years

  female:  82.76 years (2001 est.)

Syria:
  total population:  68.77 years

  male:  67.63 years

  female:  69.98 years (2001 est.)

Tajikistan:
  total population:  64.18 years

  male:  61.09 years

  female:  67.42 years (2001 est.)

Tanzania:
  total population:  51.98 years

  male:  51.04 years

  female:  52.95 years (2001 est.)

Thailand:
  total population:  68.86 years

  male:  65.64 years

  female:  72.24 years (2001 est.)

Togo:
  total population:  54.35 years

  male:  52.38 years

  female:  56.38 years (2001 est.)

Tokelau:
  total population:  NA years

  male:  NA years

  female:  NA years

Tonga:
  total population:  68.25 years

  male:  65.83 years

  female:  70.78 years (2001 est.)

Trinidad and Tobago:
  total population:  68.27 years

  male:  65.74 years

  female:  70.92 years (2001 est.)

Tunisia:
  total population:  73.92 years

  male:  72.35 years

  female:  75.62 years (2001 est.)

Turkey:
  total population:  71.24 years

  male:  68.89 years

  female:  73.71 years (2001 est.)

Turkmenistan:
  total population:  61 years

  male:  57.43 years

  female:  64.76 years (2001 est.)

Turks and Caicos Islands:
  total population:  73.52 years

  male:  71.37 years

  female:  75.77 years (2001 est.)

Tuvalu:
  total population:  66.65 years

  male:  64.52 years

  female:  68.88 years (2001 est.)

Uganda:
  total population:  43.37 years

  male:  42.59 years

  female:  44.17 years (2001 est.)

Ukraine:
  total population:  66.15 years

  male:  60.62 years

  female:  71.96 years (2001 est.)

United Arab Emirates:
  total population:  74.29 years

  male:  71.84 years

  female:  76.86 years (2001 est.)

United Kingdom:
  total population:  77.82 years

  male:  75.13 years

  female:  80.66 years (2001 est.)

United States:
  total population:  77.26 years

  male:  74.37 years

  female:  80.05 years (2001 est.)

Uruguay:
  total population:  75.44 years

  male:  72.11 years

  female:  78.96 years (2001 est.)

Uzbekistan:
  total population:  63.81 years

  male:  60.24 years

  female:  67.56 years (2001 est.)

Vanuatu:
  total population:  60.95 years

  male:  59.58 years

  female:  62.39 years (2001 est.)

Venezuela:
  total population:  73.31 years

  male:  70.29 years

  female:  76.56 years (2001 est.)

Vietnam:
  total population:  69.56 years

  male:  67.12 years

  female:  72.19 years (2001 est.)

Virgin Islands:
  total population:  78.27 years

  male:  74.38 years

  female:  82.39 years (2001 est.)

Wallis and Futuna:
  total population:  NA years

  male:  NA years

  female:  NA years

West Bank:
  total population:  72.28 years

  male:  70.58 years

  female:  74.07 years (2001 est.)

World:
  total population:  63.79 years

  male:  62.15 years

  female:  65.51 years (2001 est.)

Yemen:
  total population:  60.21 years

  male:  58.45 years

  female:  62.05 years (2001 est.)

Yugoslavia:
  total population:  73.5 years

  male:  70.57 years

  female:  76.67 years (2001 est.)

Zambia:
  total population:  37.29 years

  male:  37.06 years

  female:  37.53 years (2001 est.)

Zimbabwe:
  total population:  37.13 years

  male:  38.51 years

  female:  35.7 years (2001 est.)

Taiwan:
  total population:  76.54 years

  male:  73.81 years

  female:  79.51 years (2001 est.)

======================================================================

@Literacy



Afghanistan:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  31.5%

  male:  47.2%

  female:  15% (1999 est.)

Albania:
  definition:  age 9 and over can read and write

  total population:  93% (1997 est.)

  male:  NA%

  female:  NA%

Algeria:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  61.6%

  male:  73.9%

  female:  49% (1995 est.)

American Samoa:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  97%

  male:  98%

  female:  97% (1980 est.)

Andorra:
  definition:  NA

  total population:  100%

  male:  NA%

  female:  NA%

Angola:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  42%

  male:  56%

  female:  28% (1998 est.)

Anguilla:
  definition:  age 12 and over can read and write

  total population:  95%

  male:  95%

  female:  95% (1984 est.)

Antigua and Barbuda:
  definition:  age 15 and over has completed five
  or more years of schooling

  total population:  89%

  male:  90%

  female:  88% (1960 est.)

Argentina:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  96.2%

  male:  96.2%

  female:  96.2% (1995 est.)

Armenia:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  99%

  male:  99%

  female:  98% (1989 est.)

Aruba:
  definition:  NA

  total population:  97%

  male:  NA%

  female:  NA%

Australia:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  100%

  male:  100%

  female:  100% (1980 est.)

Austria:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  98%

  male:  NA%

  female:  NA%

Azerbaijan:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  97%

  male:  99%

  female:  96% (1989 est.)

Bahamas, The:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  98.2%

  male:  98.5%

  female:  98% (1995 est.)

Bahrain:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  85.2%

  male:  89.1%

  female:  79.4% (1995 est.)

Bangladesh:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  56%

  male:  63%

  female:  49% (2000 est.)

Barbados:
  definition:  age 15 and over has ever attended school

  total population:  97.4%

  male:  98%

  female:  96.8% (1995 est.)

Belarus:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  98%

  male:  99%

  female:  97% (1989 est.)

Belgium:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  98%

  male:  NA%

  female:  NA%

Belize:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  70.3%

  male:  70.3%

  female:  70.3% (1991 est.)

  note:  other sources list the literacy rate as high as 75%

Benin:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  37.5%

  male:  52.2%

  female:  23.6% (2000)

Bermuda:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  98%

  male:  98%

  female:  99% (1970 est.)

Bhutan:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  42.2%

  male:  56.2%

  female:  28.1% (1995 est.)

Bolivia:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  83.1%

  male:  90.5%

  female:  76% (1995 est.)

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  definition:  NA

  total population:  NA%

  male:  NA%

  female:  NA%

Botswana:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  69.8%

  male:  80.5%

  female:  59.9% (1995 est.)

Brazil:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  83.3%

  male:  83.3%

  female:  83.2% (1995 est.)

British Virgin Islands:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and
  write

  total population:  97.8% (1991 est.)

  male:  NA%

  female:  NA%

Brunei:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  88.2%

  male:  92.6%

  female:  83.4% (1995 est.)

Bulgaria:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  98%

  male:  99%

  female:  98% (1999)

Burkina Faso:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  19.2%

  male:  29.5%

  female:  9.2% (1995 est.)

Burma:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  83.1%

  male:  88.7%

  female:  77.7% (1995 est.)

  note:  these are official statistics; estimates of functional
  literacy are likely closer to 30% (1999 est.)

Burundi:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  35.3%

  male:  49.3%

  female:  22.5% (1995 est.)

Cambodia:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  35%

  male:  48%

  female:  22% (1990 est.)

Cameroon:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  63.4%

  male:  75%

  female:  52.1% (1995 est.)

Canada:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  97% (1986 est.)

  male:  NA%

  female:  NA%

Cape Verde:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  71.6%

  male:  81.4%

  female:  63.8% (1995 est.)

Cayman Islands:
  definition:  age 15 and over has ever attended school

  total population:  98%

  male:  98%

  female:  98% (1970 est.)

Central African Republic:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and
  write

  total population:  60%

  male:  68.5%

  female:  52.4% (1995 est.)

Chad:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write French or
  Arabic

  total population:  48.1%

  male:  62.1%

  female:  34.7% (1995 est.)

Chile:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  95.2%

  male:  95.4%

  female:  95% (1995 est.)

China:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  81.5%

  male:  89.9%

  female:  72.7% (1995 est.)

Colombia:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  91.3%

  male:  91.2%

  female:  91.4% (1995 est.)

Comoros:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  57.3%

  male:  64.2%

  female:  50.4% (1995 est.)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  definition:  age 15 and over can
  read and write French, Lingala, Kingwana, or Tshiluba

  total population:  77.3%

  male:  86.6%

  female:  67.7% (1995 est.)

Congo, Republic of the:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and
  write

  total population:  74.9%

  male:  83.1%

  female:  67.2% (1995 est.)

Cook Islands:
  definition:  NA

  total population:  95%

  male:  NA%

  female:  NA%

Costa Rica:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  94.8%

  male:  94.7%

  female:  95% (1995 est.)

Cote d'Ivoire:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  48.5%

  male:  57%

  female:  40%

Croatia:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  97%

  male:  99%

  female:  95% (1991 est.)

Cuba:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  95.7%

  male:  96.2%

  female:  95.3% (1995 est.)

Cyprus:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  94%

  male:  98%

  female:  91% (1987 est.)

Czech Republic:
  definition:  NA

  total population:  99.9% (1999 est.)

  male:  NA%

  female:  NA%

Denmark:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  100%

  male:  NA%

  female:  NA%

Djibouti:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  46.2%

  male:  60.3%

  female:  32.7% (1995 est.)

Dominica:
  definition:  age 15 and over has ever attended school

  total population:  94%

  male:  94%

  female:  94% (1970 est.)

Dominican Republic:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  82.1%

  male:  82%

  female:  82.2% (1995 est.)

Ecuador:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  90.1%

  male:  92%

  female:  88.2% (1995 est.)

Egypt:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  51.4%

  male:  63.6%

  female:  38.8% (1995 est.)

El Salvador:
  definition:  age 10 and over can read and write

  total population:  71.5%

  male:  73.5%

  female:  69.8% (1995 est.)

Equatorial Guinea:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  78.5%

  male:  89.6%

  female:  68.1% (1995 est.)

Eritrea:
  definition:  NA

  total population:  25%

  male:  NA%

  female:  NA%

Estonia:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  100%

  male:  100%

  female:  100% (1998 est.)

Ethiopia:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  35.5%

  male:  45.5%

  female:  25.3% (1995 est.)

Faroe Islands:
  definition:  NA

  total population:  NA%

  male:  NA%

  female:  NA%

  note:  similar to Denmark proper

Fiji:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  91.6%

  male:  93.8%

  female:  89.3% (1995 est.)

Finland:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  100% (1980 est.)

  male:  NA%

  female:  NA%

France:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  99%

  male:  99%

  female:  99% (1980 est.)

French Guiana:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  83%

  male:  84%

  female:  82% (1982 est.)

French Polynesia:
  definition:  age 14 and over can read and write

  total population:  98%

  male:  98%

  female:  98% (1977 est.)

Gabon:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  63.2%

  male:  73.7%

  female:  53.3% (1995 est.)

Gambia, The:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  47.5%

  male:  58.4%

  female:  37.1% (2001 est.)

Gaza Strip:
  definition:  NA

  total population:  NA%

  male:  NA%

  female:  NA%

Georgia:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  99%

  male:  100%

  female:  98% (1989 est.)

Germany:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  99% (1977 est.)

  male:  NA%

  female:  NA%

Ghana:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  64.5%

  male:  75.9%

  female:  53.5% (1995 est.)

Gibraltar:
  definition:  NA

  total population:  above 80%

  male:  NA%

  female:  NA%

Greece:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  95%

  male:  98%

  female:  93% (1991 est.)

Greenland:
  definition:  NA

  total population:  NA%

  male:  NA%

  female:  NA%

  note:  similar to Denmark proper

Grenada:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  98%

  male:  98%

  female:  98% (1970 est.)

Guadeloupe:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  90%

  male:  90%

  female:  90% (1982 est.)

Guam:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  99%

  male:  99%

  female:  99% (1990 est.)

Guatemala:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  63.6%

  male:  68.7%

  female:  58.5% (2000 est.)

Guernsey:
  definition:  NA

  total population:  NA%

  male:  NA%

  female:  NA%

Guinea:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  35.9%

  male:  49.9%

  female:  21.9% (1995 est.)

Guinea-Bissau:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  53.9%

  male:  67.1%

  female:  40.7% (1997 est.)

Guyana:
  definition:  age 15 and over has ever attended school

  total population:  98.1%

  male:  98.6%

  female:  97.5% (1995 est.)

Haiti:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  45%

  male:  48%

  female:  42.2% (1995 est.)

Holy See (Vatican City):
  definition:  NA

  total population:  100%

  male:  NA%

  female:  NA%

Honduras:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  72.7%

  male:  72.6%

  female:  72.7% (1995 est.)

Hong Kong:
  definition:  age 15 and over has ever attended school

  total population:  92.2%

  male:  96%

  female:  88.2% (1996 est.)

Hungary:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  99%

  male:  99%

  female:  98% (1980 est.)

Iceland:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  99.9% (1997 est.)

  male:  NA%

  female:  NA%

India:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  52%

  male:  65.5%

  female:  37.7% (1995 est.)

Indonesia:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  83.8%

  male:  89.6%

  female:  78% (1995 est.)

Iran:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  72.1%

  male:  78.4%

  female:  65.8% (1994 est.)

Iraq:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  58%

  male:  70.7%

  female:  45% (1995 est.)

Ireland:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  98% (1981 est.)

  male:  NA%

  female:  NA%

Israel:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  95%

  male:  97%

  female:  93% (1992 est.)

Italy:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  98% (1998)

  male:  NA%

  female:  NA%

Jamaica:
  definition:  age 15 and over has ever attended school

  total population:  85%

  male:  80.8%

  female:  89.1% (1995 est.)

Japan:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  99% (1970 est.)

  male:  NA%

  female:  NA%

Jersey:
  definition:  NA

  total population:  NA

  male:  NA

  female:  NA

Jordan:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  86.6%

  male:  93.4%

  female:  79.4% (1995 est.)

Kazakhstan:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  98%

  male:  99%

  female:  96% (1989 est.)

Kenya:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  78.1%

  male:  86.3%

  female:  70% (1995 est.)

Kiribati:
  definition:  NA

  total population:  NA%

  male:  NA%

  female:  NA%

Korea, North:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write Korean

  total population:  99%

  male:  99%

  female:  99% (1990 est.)

Korea, South:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  98%

  male:  99.3%

  female:  96.7% (1995 est.)

Kuwait:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  78.6%

  male:  82.2%

  female:  74.9% (1995 est.)

Kyrgyzstan:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  97%

  male:  99%

  female:  96% (1989 est.)

Laos:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  57%

  male:  70%

  female:  44% (1999 est.)

Latvia:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  100%

  male:  100%

  female:  99% (1989 est.)

Lebanon:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  86.4%

  male:  90.8%

  female:  82.2% (1997 est.)

Lesotho:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  83%

  male:  72%

  female:  93% (1999 est.)

Liberia:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  38.3%

  male:  53.9%

  female:  22.4% (1995 est.)

  note:  these figures are increasing because of the improving school
  system

Libya:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  76.2%

  male:  87.9%

  female:  63% (1995 est.)

Liechtenstein:
  definition:  age 10 and over can read and write

  total population:  100%

  male:  100%

  female:  100% (1981 est.)

Lithuania:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  98%

  male:  99%

  female:  98% (1989 est.)

Luxembourg:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  100%

  male:  100%

  female:  100% (2000 est.)

Macau:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  90%

  male:  93%

  female:  86% (1981 est.)

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  definition:  NA

  total population:  NA%

  male:  NA%

  female:  NA%

Madagascar:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  80%

  male:  88%

  female:  73% (1990 est.)

Malawi:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  58%

  male:  72.8%

  female:  43.4% (1999 est.)

Malaysia:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  83.5%

  male:  89.1%

  female:  78.1% (1995 est.)

Maldives:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  93.2%

  male:  93.3%

  female:  93% (1995 est.)

Mali:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  31%

  male:  39.4%

  female:  23.1% (1995 est.)

Malta:
  definition:  age 10 and over can read and write

  total population:  88.76%

  male:  86.91%

  female:  89.55% (1995 census)

Man, Isle of:
  definition:  NA

  total population:  NA%

  male:  NA%

  female:  NA%

Marshall Islands:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  93%

  male:  100%

  female:  88% (1980 est.)

Martinique:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  93%

  male:  92%

  female:  93% (1982 est.)

Mauritania:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  46.7%

  male:  53.4%

  female:  40% (1998 est.)

Mauritius:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  82.9%

  male:  87.1%

  female:  78.8% (1995 est.)

Mayotte:
  definition:  NA

  total population:  NA%

  male:  NA%

  female:  NA%

Mexico:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  89.6%

  male:  91.8%

  female:  87.4% (1995 est.)

Micronesia, Federated States of:
  definition:  age 15 and over can
  read and write

  total population:  89%

  male:  91%

  female:  88% (1980 est.)

Moldova:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  96%

  male:  99%

  female:  94% (1989 est.)

Monaco:
  definition:  NA

  total population:  99%

  male:  NA%

  female:  NA%

Mongolia:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  97%

  male:  98%

  female:  97.5% (2000)

Montserrat:
  definition:  age 15 and over has ever attended school

  total population:  97%

  male:  97%

  female:  97% (1970 est.)

Morocco:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  43.7%

  male:  56.6%

  female:  31% (1995 est.)

Mozambique:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  42.3%

  male:  58.4%

  female:  27% (1998 est.)

Namibia:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  38%

  male:  45%

  female:  31% (1960 est.)

Nauru:
  definition:  NA

  total population:  NA%

  male:  NA%

  female:  NA%

Nepal:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  27.5%

  male:  40.9%

  female:  14% (1995 est.)

Netherlands:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  99% (2000 est.)

  male:  NA%

  female:  NA%

Netherlands Antilles:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  98%

  male:  98%

  female:  99% (1981 est.)

New Caledonia:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  91%

  male:  92%

  female:  90% (1976 est.)

New Zealand:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  99% (1980 est.)

  male:  NA%

  female:  NA%

Nicaragua:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  65.7%

  male:  64.6%

  female:  66.6% (1995 est.)

Niger:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  13.6%

  male:  20.9%

  female:  6.6% (1995 est.)

Nigeria:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  57.1%

  male:  67.3%

  female:  47.3% (1995 est.)

Niue:
  definition:  NA

  total population:  95%

  male:  NA%

  female:  NA%

Northern Mariana Islands:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and
  write

  total population:  97%

  male:  97%

  female:  96% (1980 est.)

Norway:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  100%

  male:  NA%

  female:  NA%

Oman:
  definition:  NA

  total population:  approaching 80%

  male:  NA%

  female:  NA%

Pakistan:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  42.7%

  male:  55.3%

  female:  29% (1998)

Palau:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  92%

  male:  93%

  female:  90% (1980 est.)

Panama:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  90.8%

  male:  91.4%

  female:  90.2% (1995 est.)

Papua New Guinea:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  72.2%

  male:  81%

  female:  62.7% (1995 est.)

Paraguay:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  92.1%

  male:  93.5%

  female:  90.6% (1995 est.)

Peru:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  88.7%

  male:  94.5%

  female:  83% (1995 est.)

Philippines:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  94.6%

  male:  95%

  female:  94.3% (1995 est.)

Poland:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  99%

  male:  99%

  female:  98% (1978 est.)

Portugal:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  87.4%

  male:  NA%

  female:  NA%

Puerto Rico:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  89%

  male:  90%

  female:  88% (1980 est.)

Qatar:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  79%

  male:  79%

  female:  80% (1995 est.)

Reunion:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  79%

  male:  76%

  female:  80% (1982 est.)

Romania:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  97%

  male:  98%

  female:  95% (1992 est.)

Russia:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  98%

  male:  100%

  female:  97% (1989 est.)

Rwanda:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  48%

  male:  52%

  female:  45% (1995 est.)

Saint Helena:
  definition:  age 20 and over can read and write

  total population:  97%

  male:  97%

  female:  98% (1987 est.)

Saint Kitts and Nevis:
  definition:  age 15 and over has ever
  attended school

  total population:  97%

  male:  97%

  female:  98% (1980 est.)

Saint Lucia:
  definition:  age 15 and over has ever attended school

  total population:  67%

  male:  65%

  female:  69% (1980 est.)

Saint Pierre and Miquelon:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and
  write

  total population:  99%

  male:  99%

  female:  99% (1982 est.)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:
  definition:  age 15 and over has
  ever attended school

  total population:  96%

  male:  96%

  female:  96% (1970 est.)

Samoa:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  97%

  male:  97%

  female:  97% (1971 est.)

San Marino:
  definition:  age 10 and over can read and write

  total population:  96%

  male:  97%

  female:  95% (1976 est.)

Sao Tome and Principe:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and
  write

  total population:  73%

  male:  85%

  female:  62% (1991 est.)

Saudi Arabia:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  62.8%

  male:  71.5%

  female:  50.2% (1995 est.)

Senegal:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  33.1%

  male:  43%

  female:  23.2% (1995 est.)

Seychelles:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  58%

  male:  56%

  female:  60% (1971 est.)

Sierra Leone:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write
  English, Mende, Temne, or Arabic

  total population:  31.4%

  male:  45.4%

  female:  18.2% (1995 est.)

Singapore:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  93.5%

  male:  97%

  female:  89.8% (1999)

Slovakia:
  definition:  NA

  total population:  NA%

  male:  NA%

  female:  NA%

Slovenia:
  definition:  NA

  total population:  99%

  male:  NA%

  female:  NA%

Solomon Islands:
  definition:  NA

  total population:  NA%

  male:  NA%

  female:  NA%

Somalia:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  24%

  male:  36%

  female:  14% (1990 est.)

South Africa:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  81.8%

  male:  81.9%

  female:  81.7% (1995 est.)

Spain:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  97%

  male:  NA%

  female:  NA%

Sri Lanka:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  90.2%

  male:  93.4%

  female:  87.2% (1995 est.)

Sudan:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  46.1%

  male:  57.7%

  female:  34.6% (1995 est.)

Suriname:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  93%

  male:  95%

  female:  91% (1995 est.)

Swaziland:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  76.7%

  male:  78%

  female:  75.6% (1995 est.)

Sweden:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  99% (1979 est.)

  male:  NA%

  female:  NA%

Switzerland:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  99% (1980 est.)

  male:  NA%

  female:  NA%

Syria:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  70.8%

  male:  85.7%

  female:  55.8% (1997 est.)

Tajikistan:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  98%

  male:  99%

  female:  97% (1989 est.)

Tanzania:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write Kiswahili
  (Swahili), English, or Arabic

  total population:  67.8%

  male:  79.4%

  female:  56.8% (1995 est.)

Thailand:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  93.8%

  male:  96%

  female:  91.6% (1995 est.)

Togo:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  51.7%

  male:  67%

  female:  37% (1995 est.)

Tonga:
  definition:  can read and write Tongan and/or English

  total population:  98.5%

  male:  98.4%

  female:  98.7% (1996 est.)

Trinidad and Tobago:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  97.9%

  male:  98.8%

  female:  97% (1995 est.)

Tunisia:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  66.7%

  male:  78.6%

  female:  54.6% (1995 est.)

Turkey:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  85%

  male:  94%

  female:  77% (2000)

Turkmenistan:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  98%

  male:  99%

  female:  97% (1989 est.)

Turks and Caicos Islands:
  definition:  age 15 and over has ever
  attended school

  total population:  98%

  male:  99%

  female:  98% (1970 est.)

Tuvalu:
  definition:  NA

  total population:  NA%

  male:  NA%

  female:  NA%

Uganda:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  61.8%

  male:  73.7%

  female:  50.2% (1995 est.)

Ukraine:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  98%

  male:  100%

  female:  97% (1989 est.)

United Arab Emirates:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  79.2%

  male:  78.9%

  female:  79.8% (1995 est.)

United Kingdom:
  definition:  age 15 and over has completed five or
  more years of schooling

  total population:  99% (1978 est.)

  male:  NA%

  female:  NA%

United States:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  97%

  male:  97%

  female:  97% (1979 est.)

Uruguay:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  97.3%

  male:  96.9%

  female:  97.7% (1995 est.)

Uzbekistan:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  99%

  male:  99%

  female:  99% (yearend 1996)

Vanuatu:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  53%

  male:  57%

  female:  48% (1979 est.)

Venezuela:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  91.1%

  male:  91.8%

  female:  90.3% (1995 est.)

Vietnam:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  93.7%

  male:  96.5%

  female:  91.2% (1995 est.)

Virgin Islands:
  definition:  NA

  total population:  NA%

  male:  NA%

  female:  NA%

Wallis and Futuna:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  50%

  male:  50%

  female:  50% (1969 est.)

West Bank:
  definition:  NA

  total population:  NA%

  male:  NA%

  female:  NA%

Western Sahara:
  definition:  NA

  total population:  NA%

  male:  NA%

  female:  NA%

Yemen:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  38%

  male:  53%

  female:  26% (1990 est.)

Yugoslavia:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  93%

  male:  97.2%

  female:  88.9% (1991)

Zambia:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write English

  total population:  78.2%

  male:  85.6%

  female:  71.3% (1995 est.)

Zimbabwe:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write English

  total population:  85%

  male:  90%

  female:  80% (1995 est.)

Taiwan:
  definition:  age 15 and over can read and write

  total population:  86% (1980 est.); note - literacy for the total
  population has reportedly increased to 94% (1998 est.)

  male:  93% (1980 est.)

  female:  79% (1980 est.)

======================================================================

@Location



Afghanistan:
  Southern Asia, north and west of Pakistan, east of Iran

Albania:
  Southeastern Europe, bordering the Adriatic Sea and Ionian
  Sea, between Greece and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia

Algeria:
  Northern Africa, bordering the Mediterranean Sea, between
  Morocco and Tunisia

American Samoa:
  Oceania, group of islands in the South Pacific
  Ocean, about one-half of the way from Hawaii to New Zealand

Andorra:
  Southwestern Europe, between France and Spain

Angola:
  Southern Africa, bordering the South Atlantic Ocean, between
  Namibia and Democratic Republic of the Congo

Anguilla:
  Caribbean, island in the Caribbean Sea, east of Puerto Rico

Antarctica:
  continent mostly south of the Antarctic Circle

Antigua and Barbuda:
  Caribbean, islands between the Caribbean Sea
  and the North Atlantic Ocean, east-southeast of Puerto Rico

Arctic Ocean:
  body of water between Europe, Asia, and North America,
  mostly north of the Arctic Circle

Argentina:
  Southern South America, bordering the South Atlantic
  Ocean, between Chile and Uruguay

Armenia:
  Southwestern Asia, east of Turkey

Aruba:
  Caribbean, island in the Caribbean Sea, north of Venezuela

Ashmore and Cartier Islands:
  Southeastern Asia, islands in the
  Indian Ocean, northwest of Australia

Atlantic Ocean:
  body of water between Africa, Europe, the Southern
  Ocean, and the Western Hemisphere

Australia:
  Oceania, continent between the Indian Ocean and the South
  Pacific Ocean

Austria:
  Central Europe, north of Italy and Slovenia

Azerbaijan:
  Southwestern Asia, bordering the Caspian Sea, between
  Iran and Russia

Bahamas, The:
  Caribbean, chain of islands in the North Atlantic
  Ocean, southeast of Florida

Bahrain:
  Middle East, archipelago in the Persian Gulf, east of Saudi
  Arabia

Baker Island:
  Oceania, atoll in the North Pacific Ocean, about
  one-half of the way from Hawaii to Australia

Bangladesh:
  Southern Asia, bordering the Bay of Bengal, between
  Burma and India

Barbados:
  Caribbean, island between the Caribbean Sea and the North
  Atlantic Ocean, northeast of Venezuela

Bassas da India:
  Southern Africa, islands in the southern Mozambique
  Channel, about one-half of the way from Madagascar to Mozambique

Belarus:
  Eastern Europe, east of Poland

Belgium:
  Western Europe, bordering the North Sea, between France and
  the Netherlands

Belize:
  Middle America, bordering the Caribbean Sea, between
  Guatemala and Mexico

Benin:
  Western Africa, bordering the North Atlantic Ocean, between
  Nigeria and Togo

Bermuda:
  North America, group of islands in the North Atlantic
  Ocean, east of North Carolina (US)

Bhutan:
  Southern Asia, between China and India

Bolivia:
  Central South America, southwest of Brazil

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  Southeastern Europe, bordering the Adriatic
  Sea and Croatia

Botswana:
  Southern Africa, north of South Africa

Bouvet Island:
  Southern Africa, island in the South Atlantic Ocean,
  south-southwest of the Cape of Good Hope (South Africa)

Brazil:
  Eastern South America, bordering the Atlantic Ocean

British Indian Ocean Territory:
  Southern Asia, archipelago in the
  Indian Ocean, about one-half the way from Africa to Indonesia

British Virgin Islands:
  Caribbean, between the Caribbean Sea and the
  North Atlantic Ocean, east of Puerto Rico

Brunei:
  Southeastern Asia, bordering the South China Sea and Malaysia

Bulgaria:
  Southeastern Europe, bordering the Black Sea, between
  Romania and Turkey

Burkina Faso:
  Western Africa, north of Ghana

Burma:
  Southeastern Asia, bordering the Andaman Sea and the Bay of
  Bengal, between Bangladesh and Thailand

Burundi:
  Central Africa, east of Democratic Republic of the Congo

Cambodia:
  Southeastern Asia, bordering the Gulf of Thailand, between
  Thailand, Vietnam, and Laos

Cameroon:
  Western Africa, bordering the Bight of Biafra, between
  Equatorial Guinea and Nigeria

Canada:
  Northern North America, bordering the North Atlantic Ocean
  and North Pacific Ocean, north of the conterminous US

Cape Verde:
  Western Africa, group of islands in the North Atlantic
  Ocean, west of Senegal

Cayman Islands:
  Caribbean, island group in Caribbean Sea, nearly
  one-half of the way from Cuba to Honduras

Central African Republic:
  Central Africa, north of Democratic
  Republic of the Congo

Chad:
  Central Africa, south of Libya

Chile:
  Southern South America, bordering the South Atlantic Ocean
  and South Pacific Ocean, between Argentina and Peru

China:
  Eastern Asia, bordering the East China Sea, Korea Bay, Yellow
  Sea, and South China Sea, between North Korea and Vietnam

Christmas Island:
  Southeastern Asia, island in the Indian Ocean,
  south of Indonesia

Clipperton Island:
  Middle America, atoll in the North Pacific Ocean,
  1,120 km southwest of Mexico

Cocos (Keeling) Islands:
  Southeastern Asia, group of islands in the
  Indian Ocean, south of Indonesia, about one-half of the way from
  Australia to Sri Lanka

Colombia:
  Northern South America, bordering the Caribbean Sea,
  between Panama and Venezuela, and bordering the North Pacific Ocean,
  between Ecuador and Panama

Comoros:
  Southern Africa, group of islands in the Mozambique
  Channel, about two-thirds of the way between northern Madagascar and
  northern Mozambique

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  Central Africa, northeast of
  Angola

Congo, Republic of the:
  Western Africa, bordering the South Atlantic
  Ocean, between Angola and Gabon

Cook Islands:
  Oceania, group of islands in the South Pacific Ocean,
  about one-half of the way from Hawaii to New Zealand

Coral Sea Islands:
  Oceania, islands in the Coral Sea, northeast of
  Australia

Costa Rica:
  Middle America, bordering both the Caribbean Sea and the
  North Pacific Ocean, between Nicaragua and Panama

Cote d'Ivoire:
  Western Africa, bordering the North Atlantic Ocean,
  between Ghana and Liberia

Croatia:
  Southeastern Europe, bordering the Adriatic Sea, between
  Bosnia and Herzegovina and Slovenia

Cuba:
  Caribbean, island between the Caribbean Sea and the North
  Atlantic Ocean, south of Florida

Cyprus:
  Middle East, island in the Mediterranean Sea, south of Turkey

Czech Republic:
  Central Europe, southeast of Germany

Denmark:
  Northern Europe, bordering the Baltic Sea and the North
  Sea, on a peninsula north of Germany (Jutland); also includes two
  major islands (Sjaeland and Fyn)

Djibouti:
  Eastern Africa, bordering the Gulf of Aden and the Red
  Sea, between Eritrea and Somalia

Dominica:
  Caribbean, island between the Caribbean Sea and the North
  Atlantic Ocean, about one-half of the way from Puerto Rico to
  Trinidad and Tobago

Dominican Republic:
  Caribbean, eastern two-thirds of the island of
  Hispaniola, between the Caribbean Sea and the North Atlantic Ocean,
  east of Haiti

Ecuador:
  Western South America, bordering the Pacific Ocean at the
  Equator, between Colombia and Peru

Egypt:
  Northern Africa, bordering the Mediterranean Sea, between
  Libya and the Gaza Strip

El Salvador:
  Middle America, bordering the North Pacific Ocean,
  between Guatemala and Honduras

Equatorial Guinea:
  Western Africa, bordering the Bight of Biafra,
  between Cameroon and Gabon

Eritrea:
  Eastern Africa, bordering the Red Sea, between Djibouti and
  Sudan

Estonia:
  Eastern Europe, bordering the Baltic Sea and Gulf of
  Finland, between Latvia and Russia

Ethiopia:
  Eastern Africa, west of Somalia

Europa Island:
  Southern Africa, island in the Mozambique Channel,
  about one-half of the way from southern Madagascar to southern
  Mozambique

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas):
  Southern South America, islands
  in the South Atlantic Ocean, east of southern Argentina

Faroe Islands:
  Northern Europe, island group between the Norwegian
  Sea and the North Atlantic Ocean, about one-half of the way from
  Iceland to Norway

Fiji:
  Oceania, island group in the South Pacific Ocean, about
  two-thirds of the way from Hawaii to New Zealand

Finland:
  Northern Europe, bordering the Baltic Sea, Gulf of Bothnia,
  and Gulf of Finland, between Sweden and Russia

France:
  Western Europe, bordering the Bay of Biscay and English
  Channel, between Belgium and Spain, southeast of the UK; bordering
  the Mediterranean Sea, between Italy and Spain

French Guiana:
  Northern South America, bordering the North Atlantic
  Ocean, between Brazil and Suriname

French Polynesia:
  Oceania, archipelago in the South Pacific Ocean,
  about one-half of the way from South America to Australia

French Southern and Antarctic Lands:
  south of Africa, islands in the
  southern Indian Ocean, about equidistant between Africa, Antarctica,
  and Australia; note - French Southern and Antarctic Lands includes
  Ile Amsterdam, Ile Saint-Paul, Iles Crozet, and Iles Kerguelen in
  the southern Indian Ocean, along with the French-claimed sector of
  Antarctica, "Adelie Land"; the US does not recognize the French
  claim to "Adelie Land"

Gabon:
  Western Africa, bordering the Atlantic Ocean at the Equator,
  between Republic of the Congo and Equatorial Guinea

Gambia, The:
  Western Africa, bordering the North Atlantic Ocean and
  Senegal

Gaza Strip:
  Middle East, bordering the Mediterranean Sea, between
  Egypt and Israel

Georgia:
  Southwestern Asia, bordering the Black Sea, between Turkey
  and Russia

Germany:
  Central Europe, bordering the Baltic Sea and the North Sea,
  between the Netherlands and Poland, south of Denmark

Ghana:
  Western Africa, bordering the Gulf of Guinea, between Cote
  d'Ivoire and Togo

Gibraltar:
  Southwestern Europe, bordering the Strait of Gibraltar,
  which links the Mediterranean Sea and the North Atlantic Ocean, on
  the southern coast of Spain

Glorioso Islands:
  Southern Africa, group of islands in the Indian
  Ocean, northwest of Madagascar

Greece:
  Southern Europe, bordering the Aegean Sea, Ionian Sea, and
  the Mediterranean Sea, between Albania and Turkey

Greenland:
  Northern North America, island between the Arctic Ocean
  and the North Atlantic Ocean, northeast of Canada

Grenada:
  Caribbean, island between the Caribbean Sea and Atlantic
  Ocean, north of Trinidad and Tobago

Guadeloupe:
  Caribbean, islands in the eastern Caribbean Sea,
  southeast of Puerto Rico

Guam:
  Oceania, island in the North Pacific Ocean, about
  three-quarters of the way from Hawaii to the Philippines

Guatemala:
  Middle America, bordering the Caribbean Sea, between
  Honduras and Belize and bordering the North Pacific Ocean, between
  El Salvador and Mexico

Guernsey:
  Western Europe, islands in the English Channel, northwest
  of France

Guinea:
  Western Africa, bordering the North Atlantic Ocean, between
  Guinea-Bissau and Sierra Leone

Guinea-Bissau:
  Western Africa, bordering the North Atlantic Ocean,
  between Guinea and Senegal

Guyana:
  Northern South America, bordering the North Atlantic Ocean,
  between Suriname and Venezuela

Haiti:
  Caribbean, western one-third of the island of Hispaniola,
  between the Caribbean Sea and the North Atlantic Ocean, west of the
  Dominican Republic

Heard Island and McDonald Islands:
  Southern Africa, islands in the
  Indian Ocean, about two-thirds of the way from Madagascar to
  Antarctica

Holy See (Vatican City):
  Southern Europe, an enclave of Rome (Italy)

Honduras:
  Middle America, bordering the Caribbean Sea, between
  Guatemala and Nicaragua and bordering the North Pacific Ocean,
  between El Salvador and Nicaragua

Hong Kong:
  Eastern Asia, bordering the South China Sea and China

Howland Island:
  Oceania, island in the North Pacific Ocean, about
  one-half of the way from Hawaii to Australia

Hungary:
  Central Europe, northwest of Romania

Iceland:
  Northern Europe, island between the Greenland Sea and the
  North Atlantic Ocean, northwest of the UK

India:
  Southern Asia, bordering the Arabian Sea and the Bay of
  Bengal, between Burma and Pakistan

Indian Ocean:
  body of water between Africa, the Southern Ocean,
  Asia, and Australia

Indonesia:
  Southeastern Asia, archipelago between the Indian Ocean
  and the Pacific Ocean

Iran:
  Middle East, bordering the Gulf of Oman, the Persian Gulf, and
  the Caspian Sea, between Iraq and Pakistan

Iraq:
  Middle East, bordering the Persian Gulf, between Iran and
  Kuwait

Ireland:
  Western Europe, occupying five-sixths of the island of
  Ireland in the North Atlantic Ocean, west of Great Britain

Israel:
  Middle East, bordering the Mediterranean Sea, between Egypt
  and Lebanon

Italy:
  Southern Europe, a peninsula extending into the central
  Mediterranean Sea, northeast of Tunisia

Jamaica:
  Caribbean, island in the Caribbean Sea, south of Cuba

Jan Mayen:
  Northern Europe, island between the Greenland Sea and the
  Norwegian Sea, northeast of Iceland

Japan:
  Eastern Asia, island chain between the North Pacific Ocean
  and the Sea of Japan, east of the Korean Peninsula

Jarvis Island:
  Oceania, island in the South Pacific Ocean, about
  one-half of the way from Hawaii to the Cook Islands

Jersey:
  Western Europe, island in the English Channel, northwest of
  France

Johnston Atoll:
  Oceania, atoll in the North Pacific Ocean 717 NM
  (1328 km) southwest of Honolulu, Hawaii, about one-third of the way
  from Hawaii to the Marshall Islands

Jordan:
  Middle East, northwest of Saudi Arabia

Juan de Nova Island:
  Southern Africa, island in the Mozambique
  Channel, about one-third of the way between Madagascar and Mozambique

Kazakhstan:
  Central Asia, northwest of China

Kenya:
  Eastern Africa, bordering the Indian Ocean, between Somalia
  and Tanzania

Kingman Reef:
  Oceania, reef in the North Pacific Ocean, about
  one-half of the way from Hawaii to American Samoa

Kiribati:
  Oceania, group of islands in the Pacific Ocean, straddling
  the equator, about one-half of the way from Hawaii to Australia;
  note - on 1 January 1995, Kiribati proclaimed that all of its
  territory lies in the same time zone as its Gilbert Islands group
  (GMT +12) even though the Phoenix Islands and the Line Islands under
  its jurisdiction lie on the other side of the International Date Line

Korea, North:
  Eastern Asia, northern half of the Korean Peninsula
  bordering the Korea Bay and the Sea of Japan, between China and
  South Korea

Korea, South:
  Eastern Asia, southern half of the Korean Peninsula
  bordering the Sea of Japan and the Yellow Sea

Kuwait:
  Middle East, bordering the Persian Gulf, between Iraq and
  Saudi Arabia

Kyrgyzstan:
  Central Asia, west of China

Laos:
  Southeastern Asia, northeast of Thailand, west of Vietnam

Latvia:
  Eastern Europe, bordering the Baltic Sea, between Estonia
  and Lithuania

Lebanon:
  Middle East, bordering the Mediterranean Sea, between
  Israel and Syria

Lesotho:
  Southern Africa, an enclave of South Africa

Liberia:
  Western Africa, bordering the North Atlantic Ocean, between
  Cote d'Ivoire and Sierra Leone

Libya:
  Northern Africa, bordering the Mediterranean Sea, between
  Egypt and Tunisia

Liechtenstein:
  Central Europe, between Austria and Switzerland

Lithuania:
  Eastern Europe, bordering the Baltic Sea, between Latvia
  and Russia

Luxembourg:
  Western Europe, between France and Germany

Macau:
  Eastern Asia, bordering the South China Sea and China

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  Southeastern Europe,
  north of Greece

Madagascar:
  Southern Africa, island in the Indian Ocean, east of
  Mozambique

Malawi:
  Southern Africa, east of Zambia

Malaysia:
  Southeastern Asia, peninsula and northern one-third of the
  island of Borneo, bordering Indonesia and the South China Sea, south
  of Vietnam

Maldives:
  Southern Asia, group of atolls in the Indian Ocean,
  south-southwest of India

Mali:
  Western Africa, southwest of Algeria

Malta:
  Southern Europe, islands in the Mediterranean Sea, south of
  Sicily (Italy)

Man, Isle of:
  Western Europe, island in the Irish Sea, between Great
  Britain and Ireland

Marshall Islands:
  Oceania, group of atolls and reefs in the North
  Pacific Ocean, about one-half of the way from Hawaii to Papua New
  Guinea

Martinique:
  Caribbean, island in the Caribbean Sea, north of
  Trinidad and Tobago

Mauritania:
  Northern Africa, bordering the North Atlantic Ocean,
  between Senegal and Western Sahara

Mauritius:
  Southern Africa, island in the Indian Ocean, east of
  Madagascar

Mayotte:
  Southern Africa, island in the Mozambique Channel, about
  one-half of the way from northern Madagascar to northern Mozambique

Mexico:
  Middle America, bordering the Caribbean Sea and the Gulf of
  Mexico, between Belize and the US and bordering the North Pacific
  Ocean, between Guatemala and the US

Micronesia, Federated States of:
  Oceania, island group in the North
  Pacific Ocean, about three-quarters of the way from Hawaii to
  Indonesia

Midway Islands:
  Oceania, atoll in the North Pacific Ocean, about
  one-third of the way from Honolulu to Tokyo

Moldova:
  Eastern Europe, northeast of Romania

Monaco:
  Western Europe, bordering the Mediterranean Sea on the
  southern coast of France, near the border with Italy

Mongolia:
  Northern Asia, between China and Russia

Montserrat:
  Caribbean, island in the Caribbean Sea, southeast of
  Puerto Rico

Morocco:
  Northern Africa, bordering the North Atlantic Ocean and the
  Mediterranean Sea, between Algeria and Western Sahara

Mozambique:
  Southern Africa, bordering the Mozambique Channel,
  between South Africa and Tanzania

Namibia:
  Southern Africa, bordering the South Atlantic Ocean,
  between Angola and South Africa

Nauru:
  Oceania, island in the South Pacific Ocean, south of the
  Marshall Islands

Navassa Island:
  Caribbean, island in the Caribbean Sea, about
  one-fourth of the way from Haiti to Jamaica

Nepal:
  Southern Asia, between China and India

Netherlands:
  Western Europe, bordering the North Sea, between
  Belgium and Germany

Netherlands Antilles:
  Caribbean, two island groups in the Caribbean
  Sea - one includes Curacao and Bonaire north of Venezuela; the other
  is east of the Virgin Islands

New Caledonia:
  Oceania, islands in the South Pacific Ocean, east of
  Australia

New Zealand:
  Oceania, islands in the South Pacific Ocean, southeast
  of Australia

Nicaragua:
  Middle America, bordering both the Caribbean Sea and the
  North Pacific Ocean, between Costa Rica and Honduras

Niger:
  Western Africa, southeast of Algeria

Nigeria:
  Western Africa, bordering the Gulf of Guinea, between Benin
  and Cameroon

Niue:
  Oceania, island in the South Pacific Ocean, east of Tonga

Norfolk Island:
  Oceania, island in the South Pacific Ocean, east of
  Australia

Northern Mariana Islands:
  Oceania, islands in the North Pacific
  Ocean, about three-quarters of the way from Hawaii to the Philippines

Norway:
  Northern Europe, bordering the North Sea and the North
  Atlantic Ocean, west of Sweden

Oman:
  Middle East, bordering the Arabian Sea, Gulf of Oman, and
  Persian Gulf, between Yemen and UAE

Pacific Ocean:
  body of water between the Southern Ocean, Asia,
  Australia, and the Western Hemisphere

Pakistan:
  Southern Asia, bordering the Arabian Sea, between India on
  the east and Iran and Afghanistan on the west and China in the north

Palau:
  Oceania, group of islands in the North Pacific Ocean,
  southeast of the Philippines

Palmyra Atoll:
  Oceania, atoll in the North Pacific Ocean, about
  one-half of the way from Hawaii to American Samoa

Panama:
  Middle America, bordering both the Caribbean Sea and the
  North Pacific Ocean, between Colombia and Costa Rica

Papua New Guinea:
  Southeastern Asia, group of islands including the
  eastern half of the island of New Guinea between the Coral Sea and
  the South Pacific Ocean, east of Indonesia

Paracel Islands:
  Southeastern Asia, group of small islands and reefs
  in the South China Sea, about one-third of the way from central
  Vietnam to the northern Philippines

Paraguay:
  Central South America, northeast of Argentina

Peru:
  Western South America, bordering the South Pacific Ocean,
  between Chile and Ecuador

Philippines:
  Southeastern Asia, archipelago between the Philippine
  Sea and the South China Sea, east of Vietnam

Pitcairn Islands:
  Oceania, islands in the South Pacific Ocean, about
  one-half of the way from Peru to New Zealand

Poland:
  Central Europe, east of Germany

Portugal:
  Southwestern Europe, bordering the North Atlantic Ocean,
  west of Spain

Puerto Rico:
  Caribbean, island between the Caribbean Sea and the
  North Atlantic Ocean, east of the Dominican Republic

Qatar:
  Middle East, peninsula bordering the Persian Gulf and Saudi
  Arabia

Reunion:
  Southern Africa, island in the Indian Ocean, east of
  Madagascar

Romania:
  Southeastern Europe, bordering the Black Sea, between
  Bulgaria and Ukraine

Russia:
  Northern Asia (that part west of the Urals is sometimes
  included with Europe), bordering the Arctic Ocean, between Europe
  and the North Pacific Ocean

Rwanda:
  Central Africa, east of Democratic Republic of the Congo

Saint Helena:
  islands in the South Atlantic Ocean, about mid-way
  between South America and Africa

Saint Kitts and Nevis:
  Caribbean, islands in the Caribbean Sea,
  about one-third of the way from Puerto Rico to Trinidad and Tobago

Saint Lucia:
  Caribbean, island between the Caribbean Sea and North
  Atlantic Ocean, north of Trinidad and Tobago

Saint Pierre and Miquelon:
  Northern North America, islands in the
  North Atlantic Ocean, south of Newfoundland (Canada)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:
  Caribbean, islands in the
  Caribbean Sea, north of Trinidad and Tobago

Samoa:
  Oceania, group of islands in the South Pacific Ocean, about
  one-half of the way from Hawaii to New Zealand

San Marino:
  Southern Europe, an enclave in central Italy

Sao Tome and Principe:
  Western Africa, islands in the Gulf of
  Guinea, straddling the Equator, west of Gabon

Saudi Arabia:
  Middle East, bordering the Persian Gulf and the Red
  Sea, north of Yemen

Senegal:
  Western Africa, bordering the North Atlantic Ocean, between
  Guinea-Bissau and Mauritania

Seychelles:
  Eastern Africa, group of islands in the Indian Ocean,
  northeast of Madagascar

Sierra Leone:
  Western Africa, bordering the North Atlantic Ocean,
  between Guinea and Liberia

Singapore:
  Southeastern Asia, islands between Malaysia and Indonesia

Slovakia:
  Central Europe, south of Poland

Slovenia:
  Southeastern Europe, eastern Alps bordering the Adriatic
  Sea, between Austria and Croatia

Solomon Islands:
  Oceania, group of islands in the South Pacific
  Ocean, east of Papua New Guinea

Somalia:
  Eastern Africa, bordering the Gulf of Aden and the Indian
  Ocean, east of Ethiopia

South Africa:
  Southern Africa, at the southern tip of the continent
  of Africa

South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands:
  Southern South
  America, islands in the South Atlantic Ocean, east of the tip of
  South America

Southern Ocean:
  body of water between 60 degrees south latitude and
  Antarctica

Spain:
  Southwestern Europe, bordering the Bay of Biscay,
  Mediterranean Sea, North Atlantic Ocean, and Pyrenees Mountains,
  southwest of France

Spratly Islands:
  Southeastern Asia, group of reefs and islands in
  the South China Sea, about two-thirds of the way from southern
  Vietnam to the southern Philippines

Sri Lanka:
  Southern Asia, island in the Indian Ocean, south of India

Sudan:
  Northern Africa, bordering the Red Sea, between Egypt and
  Eritrea

Suriname:
  Northern South America, bordering the North Atlantic
  Ocean, between French Guiana and Guyana

Svalbard:
  Northern Europe, islands between the Arctic Ocean, Barents
  Sea, Greenland Sea, and Norwegian Sea, north of Norway

Swaziland:
  Southern Africa, between Mozambique and South Africa

Sweden:
  Northern Europe, bordering the Baltic Sea, Gulf of Bothnia,
  Kattegat, and Skagerrak, between Finland and Norway

Switzerland:
  Central Europe, east of France, north of Italy

Syria:
  Middle East, bordering the Mediterranean Sea, between Lebanon
  and Turkey

Tajikistan:
  Central Asia, west of China

Tanzania:
  Eastern Africa, bordering the Indian Ocean, between Kenya
  and Mozambique

Thailand:
  Southeastern Asia, bordering the Andaman Sea and the Gulf
  of Thailand, southeast of Burma

Togo:
  Western Africa, bordering the Bight of Benin, between Benin
  and Ghana

Tokelau:
  Oceania, group of three islands in the South Pacific Ocean,
  about one-half of the way from Hawaii to New Zealand

Tonga:
  Oceania, archipelago in the South Pacific Ocean, about
  two-thirds of the way from Hawaii to New Zealand

Trinidad and Tobago:
  Caribbean, islands between the Caribbean Sea
  and the North Atlantic Ocean, northeast of Venezuela

Tromelin Island:
  Southern Africa, island in the Indian Ocean, east
  of Madagascar

Tunisia:
  Northern Africa, bordering the Mediterranean Sea, between
  Algeria and Libya

Turkey:
  southeastern Europe and southwestern Asia (that portion of
  Turkey west of the Bosporus is geographically part of Europe),
  bordering the Black Sea, between Bulgaria and Georgia, and bordering
  the Aegean Sea and the Mediterranean Sea, between Greece and Syria

Turkmenistan:
  Central Asia, bordering the Caspian Sea, between Iran
  and Kazakhstan

Turks and Caicos Islands:
  Caribbean, two island groups in the North
  Atlantic Ocean, southeast of The Bahamas

Tuvalu:
  Oceania, island group consisting of nine coral atolls in the
  South Pacific Ocean, about one-half of the way from Hawaii to
  Australia

Uganda:
  Eastern Africa, west of Kenya

Ukraine:
  Eastern Europe, bordering the Black Sea, between Poland and
  Russia

United Arab Emirates:
  Middle East, bordering the Gulf of Oman and
  the Persian Gulf, between Oman and Saudi Arabia

United Kingdom:
  Western Europe, islands including the northern
  one-sixth of the island of Ireland between the North Atlantic Ocean
  and the North Sea, northwest of France

United States:
  North America, bordering both the North Atlantic
  Ocean and the North Pacific Ocean, between Canada and Mexico

Uruguay:
  Southern South America, bordering the South Atlantic Ocean,
  between Argentina and Brazil

Uzbekistan:
  Central Asia, north of Afghanistan

Vanuatu:
  Oceania, group of islands in the South Pacific Ocean, about
  three-quarters of the way from Hawaii to Australia

Venezuela:
  Northern South America, bordering the Caribbean Sea and
  the North Atlantic Ocean, between Colombia and Guyana

Vietnam:
  Southeastern Asia, bordering the Gulf of Thailand, Gulf of
  Tonkin, and South China Sea, alongside China, Laos, and Cambodia

Virgin Islands:
  Caribbean, islands between the Caribbean Sea and the
  North Atlantic Ocean, east of Puerto Rico

Wake Island:
  Oceania, atoll in the North Pacific Ocean, about
  two-thirds of the way from Hawaii to the Northern Mariana Islands

Wallis and Futuna:
  Oceania, islands in the South Pacific Ocean,
  about two-thirds of the way from Hawaii to New Zealand

West Bank:
  Middle East, west of Jordan

Western Sahara:
  Northern Africa, bordering the North Atlantic Ocean,
  between Mauritania and Morocco

Yemen:
  Middle East, bordering the Arabian Sea, Gulf of Aden, and Red
  Sea, between Oman and Saudi Arabia

Yugoslavia:
  Southeastern Europe, bordering the Adriatic Sea, between
  Albania and Bosnia and Herzegovina

Zambia:
  Southern Africa, east of Angola

Zimbabwe:
  Southern Africa, between South Africa and Zambia

Taiwan:
  Eastern Asia, islands bordering the East China Sea,
  Philippine Sea, South China Sea, and Taiwan Strait, north of the
  Philippines, off the southeastern coast of China

======================================================================

@Map references



Afghanistan:
  Asia

Albania:
  Europe

Algeria:
  Africa

American Samoa:
  Oceania

Andorra:
  Europe

Angola:
  Africa

Anguilla:
  Central America and the Caribbean

Antarctica:
  Antarctic Region

Antigua and Barbuda:
  Central America and the Caribbean

Arctic Ocean:
  Arctic Region

Argentina:
  South America

Armenia:
  Commonwealth of Independent States

Aruba:
  Central America and the Caribbean

Ashmore and Cartier Islands:
  Southeast Asia

Atlantic Ocean:
  World

Australia:
  Oceania

Austria:
  Europe

Azerbaijan:
  Commonwealth of Independent States

Bahamas, The:
  Central America and the Caribbean

Bahrain:
  Middle East

Baker Island:
  Oceania

Bangladesh:
  Asia

Barbados:
  Central America and the Caribbean

Bassas da India:
  Africa

Belarus:
  Commonwealth of Independent States

Belgium:
  Europe

Belize:
  Central America and the Caribbean

Benin:
  Africa

Bermuda:
  North America

Bhutan:
  Asia

Bolivia:
  South America

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  Bosnia and Herzegovina, Europe

Botswana:
  Africa

Bouvet Island:
  Antarctic Region

Brazil:
  South America

British Indian Ocean Territory:
  World

British Virgin Islands:
  Central America and the Caribbean

Brunei:
  Southeast Asia

Bulgaria:
  Europe

Burkina Faso:
  Africa

Burma:
  Southeast Asia

Burundi:
  Africa

Cambodia:
  Southeast Asia

Cameroon:
  Africa

Canada:
  North America

Cape Verde:
  World

Cayman Islands:
  Central America and the Caribbean

Central African Republic:
  Africa

Chad:
  Africa

Chile:
  South America

China:
  Asia

Christmas Island:
  Southeast Asia

Clipperton Island:
  World

Cocos (Keeling) Islands:
  Southeast Asia

Colombia:
  South America, Central America and the Caribbean

Comoros:
  Africa

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  Africa

Congo, Republic of the:
  Africa

Cook Islands:
  Oceania

Coral Sea Islands:
  Oceania

Costa Rica:
  Central America and the Caribbean

Cote d'Ivoire:
  Africa

Croatia:
  Europe

Cuba:
  Central America and the Caribbean

Cyprus:
  Middle East

Czech Republic:
  Europe

Denmark:
  Europe

Djibouti:
  Africa

Dominica:
  Central America and the Caribbean

Dominican Republic:
  Central America and the Caribbean

Ecuador:
  South America

Egypt:
  Africa

El Salvador:
  Central America and the Caribbean

Equatorial Guinea:
  Africa

Eritrea:
  Africa

Estonia:
  Europe

Ethiopia:
  Africa

Europa Island:
  Africa

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas):
  South America

Faroe Islands:
  Europe

Fiji:
  Oceania

Finland:
  Europe

France:
  Europe

French Guiana:
  South America

French Polynesia:
  Oceania

French Southern and Antarctic Lands:
  Antarctic Region

Gabon:
  Africa

Gambia, The:
  Africa

Gaza Strip:
  Middle East

Georgia:
  Commonwealth of Independent States

Germany:
  Europe

Ghana:
  Africa

Gibraltar:
  Europe

Glorioso Islands:
  Africa

Greece:
  Europe

Greenland:
  Arctic Region

Grenada:
  Central America and the Caribbean

Guadeloupe:
  Central America and the Caribbean

Guam:
  Oceania

Guatemala:
  Central America and the Caribbean

Guernsey:
  Europe

Guinea:
  Africa

Guinea-Bissau:
  Africa

Guyana:
  South America

Haiti:
  Central America and the Caribbean

Heard Island and McDonald Islands:
  Antarctic Region

Holy See (Vatican City):
  Europe

Honduras:
  Central America and the Caribbean

Hong Kong:
  Southeast Asia

Howland Island:
  Oceania

Hungary:
  Europe

Iceland:
  Arctic Region

India:
  Asia

Indian Ocean:
  World

Indonesia:
  Southeast Asia

Iran:
  Middle East

Iraq:
  Middle East

Ireland:
  Europe

Israel:
  Middle East

Italy:
  Europe

Jamaica:
  Central America and the Caribbean

Jan Mayen:
  Arctic Region

Japan:
  Asia

Jarvis Island:
  Oceania

Jersey:
  Europe

Johnston Atoll:
  Oceania

Jordan:
  Middle East

Juan de Nova Island:
  Africa

Kazakhstan:
  Commonwealth of Independent States

Kenya:
  Africa

Kingman Reef:
  Oceania

Kiribati:
  Oceania

Korea, North:
  Asia

Korea, South:
  Asia

Kuwait:
  Middle East

Kyrgyzstan:
  Commonwealth of Independent States

Laos:
  Southeast Asia

Latvia:
  Europe

Lebanon:
  Middle East

Lesotho:
  Africa

Liberia:
  Africa

Libya:
  Africa

Liechtenstein:
  Europe

Lithuania:
  Europe

Luxembourg:
  Europe

Macau:
  Southeast Asia

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  Europe

Madagascar:
  Africa

Malawi:
  Africa

Malaysia:
  Southeast Asia

Maldives:
  Asia

Mali:
  Africa

Malta:
  Europe

Man, Isle of:
  Europe

Marshall Islands:
  Oceania

Martinique:
  Central America and the Caribbean

Mauritania:
  Africa

Mauritius:
  World

Mayotte:
  Africa

Mexico:
  North America

Micronesia, Federated States of:
  Oceania

Midway Islands:
  Oceania

Moldova:
  Commonwealth of Independent States

Monaco:
  Europe

Mongolia:
  Asia

Montserrat:
  Central America and the Caribbean

Morocco:
  Africa

Mozambique:
  Africa

Namibia:
  Africa

Nauru:
  Oceania

Navassa Island:
  Central America and the Caribbean

Nepal:
  Asia

Netherlands:
  Europe

Netherlands Antilles:
  Central America and the Caribbean

New Caledonia:
  Oceania

New Zealand:
  Oceania

Nicaragua:
  Central America and the Caribbean

Niger:
  Africa

Nigeria:
  Africa

Niue:
  Oceania

Norfolk Island:
  Oceania

Northern Mariana Islands:
  Oceania

Norway:
  Europe

Oman:
  Middle East

Pacific Ocean:
  World

Pakistan:
  Asia

Palau:
  Oceania

Palmyra Atoll:
  Oceania

Panama:
  Central America and the Caribbean

Papua New Guinea:
  Oceania

Paracel Islands:
  Southeast Asia

Paraguay:
  South America

Peru:
  South America

Philippines:
  Southeast Asia

Pitcairn Islands:
  Oceania

Poland:
  Europe

Portugal:
  Europe

Puerto Rico:
  Central America and the Caribbean

Qatar:
  Middle East

Reunion:
  World

Romania:
  Europe

Russia:
  Asia

Rwanda:
  Africa

Saint Helena:
  Africa

Saint Kitts and Nevis:
  Central America and the Caribbean

Saint Lucia:
  Central America and the Caribbean

Saint Pierre and Miquelon:
  North America

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:
  Central America and the Caribbean

Samoa:
  Oceania

San Marino:
  Europe

Sao Tome and Principe:
  Africa

Saudi Arabia:
  Middle East

Senegal:
  Africa

Seychelles:
  Africa

Sierra Leone:
  Africa

Singapore:
  Southeast Asia

Slovakia:
  Europe

Slovenia:
  Europe

Solomon Islands:
  Oceania

Somalia:
  Africa

South Africa:
  Africa

South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands:
  Antarctic Region

Southern Ocean:
  Antarctic Region

Spain:
  Europe

Spratly Islands:
  Southeast Asia

Sri Lanka:
  Asia

Sudan:
  Africa

Suriname:
  South America

Svalbard:
  Arctic Region

Swaziland:
  Africa

Sweden:
  Europe

Switzerland:
  Europe

Syria:
  Middle East

Tajikistan:
  Commonwealth of Independent States

Tanzania:
  Africa

Thailand:
  Southeast Asia

Togo:
  Africa

Tokelau:
  Oceania

Tonga:
  Oceania

Trinidad and Tobago:
  Central America and the Caribbean

Tromelin Island:
  Africa

Tunisia:
  Africa

Turkey:
  Middle East

Turkmenistan:
  Commonwealth of Independent States

Turks and Caicos Islands:
  Central America and the Caribbean

Tuvalu:
  Oceania

Uganda:
  Africa

Ukraine:
  Commonwealth of Independent States

United Arab Emirates:
  Middle East

United Kingdom:
  Europe

United States:
  North America

Uruguay:
  South America

Uzbekistan:
  Commonwealth of Independent States

Vanuatu:
  Oceania

Venezuela:
  South America, Central America and the Caribbean

Vietnam:
  Southeast Asia

Virgin Islands:
  Central America and the Caribbean

Wake Island:
  Oceania

Wallis and Futuna:
  Oceania

West Bank:
  Middle East

Western Sahara:
  Africa

World:
  World, Time Zones

Yemen:
  Middle East

Yugoslavia:
  Europe

Zambia:
  Africa

Zimbabwe:
  Africa

Taiwan:
  Southeast Asia

======================================================================

@Maritime claims



Afghanistan:
  none (landlocked)

Albania:
  continental shelf:  200-m depth or to the depth of
  exploitation

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Algeria:
  exclusive fishing zone:  32-52 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

American Samoa:
  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Andorra:
  none (landlocked)

Angola:
  contiguous zone:  24 NM

  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Anguilla:
  exclusive fishing zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  3 NM

Antarctica:
  none; twenty of 27 Antarctic consultative nations have
  made no claims to Antarctic territory (although Russia and the US
  have reserved the right to do so) and do not recognize the claims of
  the other nations; also see the Disputes - international entry

Antigua and Barbuda:
  contiguous zone:  24 NM

  continental shelf:  200 NM or to the edge of the continental margin

  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Argentina:
  contiguous zone:  24 NM

  continental shelf:  200 NM or to the edge of the continental margin

  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Armenia:
  none (landlocked)

Aruba:
  territorial sea:  12 NM

Ashmore and Cartier Islands:
  contiguous zone:  12 NM

  continental shelf:  200-m depth or to the depth of exploitation

  exclusive fishing zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  3 NM

Australia:
  contiguous zone:  24 NM

  continental shelf:  200 NM or to the edge of the continental margin

  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Austria:
  none (landlocked)

Azerbaijan:
  none (landlocked)

Bahamas, The:
  continental shelf:  200-m depth or to the depth of
  exploitation

  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Bahrain:
  contiguous zone:  24 NM

  continental shelf:  extending to boundaries to be determined

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Baker Island:
  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Bangladesh:
  contiguous zone:  18 NM

  continental shelf:  up to the outer limits of the continental margin

  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Barbados:
  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Bassas da India:
  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Belarus:
  none (landlocked)

Belgium:
  continental shelf:  median line with neighbors

  exclusive fishing zone:  median line with neighbors (extends about
  68 km from coast)

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Belize:
  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM in the north, 3 NM in the south; note - from
  the mouth of the Sarstoon River to Ranguana Cay, Belize's
  territorial sea is 3 NM; according to Belize's Maritime Areas Act,
  1992, the purpose of this limitation is to provide a framework for
  the negotiation of a definitive agreement on territorial differences
  with Guatemala

Benin:
  territorial sea:  200 NM

Bermuda:
  exclusive fishing zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Bhutan:
  none (landlocked)

Bolivia:
  none (landlocked)

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  NA

Botswana:
  none (landlocked)

Bouvet Island:
  territorial sea:  4 NM

Brazil:
  contiguous zone:  24 NM

  continental shelf:  200 NM

  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

British Indian Ocean Territory:
  exclusive fishing zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  3 NM

British Virgin Islands:
  exclusive fishing zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  3 NM

Brunei:
  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM or to median line

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Bulgaria:
  contiguous zone:  24 NM

  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Burkina Faso:
  none (landlocked)

Burma:
  contiguous zone:  24 NM

  continental shelf:  200 NM or to the edge of the continental margin

  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Burundi:
  none (landlocked)

Cambodia:
  contiguous zone:  24 NM

  continental shelf:  200 NM

  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Cameroon:
  territorial sea:  50 NM

Canada:
  contiguous zone:  24 NM

  continental shelf:  200 NM or to the edge of the continental margin

  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Cape Verde:
  measured from claimed archipelagic baselines

  contiguous zone:  24 NM

  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Cayman Islands:
  exclusive fishing zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Central African Republic:
  none (landlocked)

Chad:
  none (landlocked)

Chile:
  contiguous zone:  24 NM

  continental shelf:  200/350 NM

  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

China:
  contiguous zone:  24 NM

  continental shelf:  200 NM or to the edge of the continental margin

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Christmas Island:
  contiguous zone:  12 NM

  exclusive fishing zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  3 NM

Clipperton Island:
  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Cocos (Keeling) Islands:
  exclusive fishing zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  3 NM

Colombia:
  continental shelf:  200-m depth or to the depth of
  exploitation

  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Comoros:
  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  exclusive economic zone:
  boundaries with neighbors

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Congo, Republic of the:
  territorial sea:  200 NM

Cook Islands:
  continental shelf:  200 NM or to the edge of the
  continental margin

  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Coral Sea Islands:
  exclusive fishing zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  3 NM

Costa Rica:
  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Cote d'Ivoire:
  continental shelf:  200 NM

  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Croatia:
  continental shelf:  200-m depth or to the depth of
  exploitation

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Cuba:
  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Cyprus:
  continental shelf:  200-m depth or to the depth of
  exploitation

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Czech Republic:
  none (landlocked)

Denmark:
  contiguous zone:  24 NM

  continental shelf:  200-m depth or to the depth of exploitation

  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Djibouti:
  contiguous zone:  24 NM

  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Dominica:
  contiguous zone:  24 NM

  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Dominican Republic:
  contiguous zone:  24 NM

  continental shelf:  200 NM or to the edge of the continental margin

  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  6 NM

Ecuador:
  continental shelf:  claims continental shelf between
  mainland and Galapagos Islands

  territorial sea:  200 NM

Egypt:
  contiguous zone:  24 NM

  continental shelf:  200-m depth or to the depth of exploitation

  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

El Salvador:
  territorial sea:  200 NM

Equatorial Guinea:
  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Eritrea:
  territorial sea:  12 NM

Estonia:
  exclusive economic zone:  limits fixed in coordination with
  neighboring states

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Ethiopia:
  none (landlocked)

Europa Island:
  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas):
  continental shelf:  200 NM

  exclusive fishing zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Faroe Islands:
  continental shelf:  200 NM or agreed boundaries or
  median line

  exclusive fishing zone:  200 NM or agreed boundaries or median line

  territorial sea:  3 NM

Fiji:
  measured from claimed archipelagic baselines

  continental shelf:  200-m depth or to the depth of exploitation;
  rectilinear shelf claim added

  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Finland:
  continental shelf:  200-m depth or to the depth of
  exploitation

  exclusive fishing zone:  12 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM (in the Gulf of Finland - 3 NM)

France:
  contiguous zone:  24 NM

  continental shelf:  200-m depth or to the depth of exploitation

  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM (does not apply to the
  Mediterranean)

  territorial sea:  12 NM

French Guiana:
  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

French Polynesia:
  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

French Southern and Antarctic Lands:
  exclusive economic zone:  200
  NM from Iles Kerguelen only

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Gabon:
  contiguous zone:  24 NM

  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Gambia, The:
  contiguous zone:  18 NM

  continental shelf:  not specified

  exclusive fishing zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Gaza Strip:
  Israeli-occupied with current status subject to the
  Israeli-Palestinian Interim Agreement - permanent status to be
  determined through further negotiation

Georgia:
  NA

Germany:
  continental shelf:  200-m depth or to the depth of
  exploitation

  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Ghana:
  contiguous zone:  24 NM

  continental shelf:  200 NM

  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Gibraltar:
  territorial sea:  3 NM

Glorioso Islands:
  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Greece:
  continental shelf:  200-m depth or to the depth of
  exploitation

  territorial sea:  6 NM

Greenland:
  continental shelf:  200 NM or agreed boundaries or median
  line

  exclusive fishing zone:  200 NM or agreed boundaries or median line

  territorial sea:  3 NM

Grenada:
  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Guadeloupe:
  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Guam:
  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Guatemala:
  continental shelf:  200-m depth or to the depth of
  exploitation

  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Guernsey:
  exclusive fishing zone:  12 NM

  territorial sea:  3 NM

Guinea:
  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Guinea-Bissau:
  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Guyana:
  continental shelf:  200 NM or to the outer edge of the
  continental margin

  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Haiti:
  contiguous zone:  24 NM

  continental shelf:  to depth of exploitation

  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Heard Island and McDonald Islands:
  exclusive fishing zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  3 NM

Holy See (Vatican City):
  none (landlocked)

Honduras:
  contiguous zone:  24 NM

  continental shelf:  natural extension of territory or to 200 NM

  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Hong Kong:
  territorial sea:  3 NM

Howland Island:
  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Hungary:
  none (landlocked)

Iceland:
  continental shelf:  200 NM or to the edge of the
  continental margin

  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

India:
  contiguous zone:  24 NM

  continental shelf:  200 NM or to the edge of the continental margin

  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Indonesia:
  measured from claimed archipelagic baselines

  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Iran:
  contiguous zone:  24 NM

  continental shelf:  natural prolongation

  exclusive economic zone:  bilateral agreements or median lines in
  the Persian Gulf

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Iraq:
  continental shelf:  not specified

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Ireland:
  continental shelf:  not specified

  exclusive fishing zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Israel:
  continental shelf:  to depth of exploitation

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Italy:
  continental shelf:  200-m depth or to the depth of
  exploitation

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Jamaica:
  measured from claimed archipelagic baselines

  contiguous zone:  24 NM

  continental shelf:  200-m depth or to the depth of exploitation

  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Jan Mayen:
  contiguous zone:  10 NM

  continental shelf:  200-m depth or to the depth of exploitation

  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  4 NM

Japan:
  contiguous zone:  24 NM

  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM; between 3 NM and 12 NM in the international
  straits - La Perouse or Soya, Tsugaru, Osumi, and Eastern and
  Western Channels of the Korea or Tsushima Strait

Jarvis Island:
  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Jersey:
  exclusive fishing zone:  12 NM

  territorial sea:  3 NM

Johnston Atoll:
  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Jordan:
  territorial sea:  3 NM

Juan de Nova Island:
  continental shelf:  200-m depth or to the depth
  of exploitation

  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Kazakhstan:
  none (landlocked)

Kenya:
  continental shelf:  200-m depth or to the depth of
  exploitation

  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Kingman Reef:
  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Kiribati:
  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Korea, North:
  territorial sea:  12 NM

  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  note:  military boundary line 50 NM in the Sea of Japan and the
  exclusive economic zone limit in the Yellow Sea where all foreign
  vessels and aircraft without permission are banned

Korea, South:
  contiguous zone:  24 NM

  continental shelf:  not specified

  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM; between 3 NM and 12 NM in the Korea Strait

Kuwait:
  territorial sea:  12 NM

Kyrgyzstan:
  none (landlocked)

Laos:
  none (landlocked)

Latvia:
  continental shelf:  200-m depth or to the depth of
  exploitation

  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Lebanon:
  territorial sea:  12 NM

Lesotho:
  none (landlocked)

Liberia:
  territorial sea:  200 NM

Libya:
  territorial sea:  12 NM

  note:  Gulf of Sidra closing line - 32 degrees, 30 minutes north

Liechtenstein:
  none (landlocked)

Lithuania:
  territorial sea:  12 NM

Luxembourg:
  none (landlocked)

Macau:
  not specified

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  none (landlocked)

Madagascar:
  contiguous zone:  24 NM

  continental shelf:  200 NM or 100 NM from the 2,500-m deep isobath

  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Malawi:
  none (landlocked)

Malaysia:
  continental shelf:  200-m depth or to the depth of
  exploitation; specified boundary in the South China Sea

  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Maldives:
  measured from claimed archipelagic baselines

  contiguous zone:  24 NM

  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Mali:
  none (landlocked)

Malta:
  contiguous zone:  24 NM

  continental shelf:  200-m depth or to the depth of exploitation

  exclusive fishing zone:  25 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Man, Isle of:
  exclusive fishing zone:  12 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Marshall Islands:
  contiguous zone:  24 NM

  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Martinique:
  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Mauritania:
  contiguous zone:  24 NM

  continental shelf:  200 NM or to the edge of the continental margin

  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Mauritius:
  continental shelf:  200 NM or to the edge of the
  continental margin

  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Mayotte:
  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Mexico:
  contiguous zone:  24 NM

  continental shelf:  200 NM or to the edge of the continental margin

  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Micronesia, Federated States of:
  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Midway Islands:
  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Moldova:
  none (landlocked)

Monaco:
  territorial sea:  12 NM

Mongolia:
  none (landlocked)

Montserrat:
  exclusive fishing zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  3 NM

Morocco:
  contiguous zone:  24 NM

  continental shelf:  200-m depth or to the depth of exploitation

  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Mozambique:
  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Namibia:
  contiguous zone:  24 NM

  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Nauru:
  contiguous zone:  24 NM

  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Navassa Island:
  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Nepal:
  none (landlocked)

Netherlands:
  exclusive fishing zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Netherlands Antilles:
  exclusive fishing zone:  12 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

New Caledonia:
  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

New Zealand:
  continental shelf:  200 NM or to the edge of the
  continental margin

  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Nicaragua:
  continental shelf:  natural prolongation

  territorial sea:  200 NM

Niger:
  none (landlocked)

Nigeria:
  continental shelf:  200-m depth or to the depth of
  exploitation

  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Niue:
  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Norfolk Island:
  exclusive fishing zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  3 NM

Northern Mariana Islands:
  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Norway:
  contiguous zone:  10 NM

  continental shelf:  200 NM

  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  4 NM

Oman:
  contiguous zone:  24 NM

  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Pakistan:
  contiguous zone:  24 NM

  continental shelf:  200 NM or to the edge of the continental margin

  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Palau:
  continental shelf:  200-m depth or to the depth of
  exploitation

  exclusive fishing zone:  12 NM

  extended fishing zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  3 NM

Palmyra Atoll:
  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Panama:
  contiguous zone:  24 NM

  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Papua New Guinea:
  measured from claimed archipelagic baselines

  continental shelf:  200-m depth or to the depth of exploitation

  exclusive fishing zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Paracel Islands:
  NA

Paraguay:
  none (landlocked)

Peru:
  continental shelf:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  200 NM

Philippines:
  continental shelf:  to depth of exploitation

  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  irregular polygon extending up to 100 NM from
  coastline as defined by 1898 treaty; since late 1970s has also
  claimed polygonal-shaped area in South China Sea up to 285 NM in
  breadth

Pitcairn Islands:
  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  3 NM

Poland:
  exclusive economic zone:  defined by international treaties

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Portugal:
  contiguous zone:  24 NM

  continental shelf:  200-m depth or to the depth of exploitation

  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Puerto Rico:
  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Qatar:
  contiguous zone:  24 NM

  exclusive economic zone:  as determined by bilateral agreements or
  the median line

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Reunion:
  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Romania:
  contiguous zone:  24 NM

  continental shelf:  200-m depth or to the depth of exploitation

  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Russia:
  continental shelf:  200-m depth or to the depth of
  exploitation

  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Rwanda:
  none (landlocked)

Saint Helena:
  exclusive fishing zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Saint Kitts and Nevis:
  contiguous zone:  24 NM

  continental shelf:  200 NM or to the edge of the continental margin

  territorial sea:  12 NM

  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

Saint Lucia:
  contiguous zone:  24 NM

  continental shelf:  200 NM or to the edge of the continental margin

  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Saint Pierre and Miquelon:
  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:
  contiguous zone:  24 NM

  continental shelf:  200 NM

  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Samoa:
  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

San Marino:
  none (landlocked)

Sao Tome and Principe:
  measured from claimed archipelagic baselines

  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Saudi Arabia:
  contiguous zone:  18 NM

  continental shelf:  not specified

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Senegal:
  contiguous zone:  24 NM

  continental shelf:  200 NM or to the edge of the continental margin

  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Seychelles:
  contiguous zone:  24 NM

  continental shelf:  200 NM or to the edge of the continental margin

  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Sierra Leone:
  territorial sea:  200 NM

  continental shelf:  200-m depth or to the depth of exploitation

Singapore:
  exclusive fishing zone:  within and beyond territorial
  sea, as defined in treaties and practice

  territorial sea:  3 NM

Slovakia:
  none (landlocked)

Slovenia:
  NA

Solomon Islands:
  measured from claimed archipelagic baselines

  continental shelf:  200 NM

  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Somalia:
  territorial sea:  200 NM

South Africa:
  contiguous zone:  24 NM

  continental shelf:  200-m depth or to the depth of exploitation

  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands:
  exclusive fishing
  zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Spain:
  contiguous zone:  24 NM

  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM (applies only to the Atlantic Ocean)

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Spratly Islands:
  NA

Sri Lanka:
  contiguous zone:  24 NM

  continental shelf:  200 NM or to the edge of the continental margin

  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Sudan:
  contiguous zone:  18 NM

  continental shelf:  200-m depth or to the depth of exploitation

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Suriname:
  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Svalbard:
  exclusive fishing zone:  200 NM unilaterally claimed by
  Norway but not recognized by Russia

  territorial sea:  4 NM

Swaziland:
  none (landlocked)

Sweden:
  continental shelf:  200-m depth or to the depth of
  exploitation

  exclusive economic zone:  agreed boundaries or midlines

  territorial sea:  12 NM (adjustments made to return a portion of
  straits to high seas)

Switzerland:
  none (landlocked)

Syria:
  contiguous zone:  41 NM

  territorial sea:  35 NM

Tajikistan:
  none (landlocked)

Tanzania:
  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Thailand:
  continental shelf:  200-m depth or to the depth of
  exploitation

  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Togo:
  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  30 NM

Tokelau:
  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Tonga:
  continental shelf:  200-m depth or to the depth of
  exploitation

  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Trinidad and Tobago:
  contiguous zone:  24 NM

  continental shelf:  200 NM or to the outer edge of the continental
  margin

  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Tromelin Island:
  continental shelf:  200-m depth or to the depth of
  exploitation

  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Tunisia:
  contiguous zone:  24 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Turkey:
  exclusive economic zone:  in Black Sea only: to the maritime
  boundary agreed upon with the former USSR

  territorial sea:  6 NM in the Aegean Sea; 12 NM in Black Sea and in
  Mediterranean Sea

Turkmenistan:
  none (landlocked)

Turks and Caicos Islands:
  exclusive fishing zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Tuvalu:
  contiguous zone:  24 NM

  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Uganda:
  none (landlocked)

Ukraine:
  continental shelf:  200-m or to the depth of exploitation

  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

United Arab Emirates:
  contiguous zone:  24 NM

  continental shelf:  200 NM or to the edge of the continental margin

  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

United Kingdom:
  continental shelf:  as defined in continental shelf
  orders or in accordance with agreed upon boundaries

  exclusive fishing zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

United States:
  contiguous zone:  24 NM

  continental shelf:  not specified

  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Uruguay:
  contiguous zone:  24 NM

  continental shelf:  200-m depth or to the depth of exploitation

  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Uzbekistan:
  none (doubly landlocked)

Vanuatu:
  measured from claimed archipelagic baselines

  contiguous zone:  24 NM

  continental shelf:  200 NM or to the edge of the continental margin

  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Venezuela:
  contiguous zone:  15 NM

  continental shelf:  200-m depth or to the depth of exploitation

  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Vietnam:
  contiguous zone:  24 NM

  continental shelf:  200 NM or to the edge of the continental margin

  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Virgin Islands:
  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Wake Island:
  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Wallis and Futuna:
  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

West Bank:
  none (landlocked)

Western Sahara:
  contingent upon resolution of sovereignty issue

World:
  contiguous zone:  24 NM claimed by most, but can vary

  continental shelf:  200-m depth claimed by most or to depth of
  exploitation; others claim 200 NM or to the edge of the continental
  margin

  exclusive fishing zone:  200 NM claimed by most, but can vary

  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM claimed by most, but can vary

  territorial sea:  12 NM claimed by most, but can vary

  note:  boundary situations with neighboring states prevent many
  countries from extending their fishing or economic zones to a full
  200 NM; 43 nations and other areas that are landlocked include
  Afghanistan, Andorra, Armenia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Bhutan,
  Bolivia, Botswana, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Central African Republic,
  Chad, Czech Republic, Ethiopia, Holy See (Vatican City), Hungary,
  Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Laos, Lesotho, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg,
  Malawi, Mali, Moldova, Mongolia, Nepal, Niger, Paraguay, Rwanda, San
  Marino, Slovakia, Swaziland, Switzerland, Tajikistan, The Former
  Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Turkmenistan, Uganda, Uzbekistan,
  West Bank, Zambia, Zimbabwe

Yemen:
  contiguous zone:  24 NM

  continental shelf:  200 NM or to the edge of the continental margin

  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

Yugoslavia:
  NA

Zambia:
  none (landlocked)

Zimbabwe:
  none (landlocked)

Taiwan:
  exclusive economic zone:  200 NM

  territorial sea:  12 NM

======================================================================

@Merchant marine



Albania:
  total:  9 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 17,797
  GRT/26,324 DWT

  ships by type:  cargo 9 (2000 est.)

Algeria:
  total:  73 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 896,911
  GRT/1,047,991 DWT

  ships by type:  bulk 9, cargo 25, chemical tanker 7, liquefied gas
  10, petroleum tanker 4, roll on/roll off 13, short-sea passenger 4,
  specialized tanker 1 (2000 est.)

American Samoa:
  none (2000 est.)

Angola:
  total:  9 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 39,305
  GRT/63,067 DWT

  ships by type:  cargo 8, petroleum tanker 1 (2000 est.)

Anguilla:
  none (2000 est.)

Antigua and Barbuda:
  total:  681 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
  4,070,390 GRT/5,289,904 DWT

  ships by type:  bulk 15, cargo 424, chemical tanker 10, combination
  bulk 4, container 176, liquefied gas 4, multi-functional large-load
  carrier 6, petroleum tanker 2, refrigerated cargo 11, roll on/roll
  off 29

  note:  includes some foreign-owned ships registered here as a flag
  of convenience: Cyprus 2, Germany 4, Slovenia 2 (2000 est.)

Argentina:
  total:  26 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 185,355
  GRT/281,475 DWT

  ships by type:  cargo 9, petroleum tanker 11, railcar carrier 1,
  refrigerated cargo 2, roll on/roll off 1, short-sea passenger 2
  (2000 est.)

Aruba:
  total:  1 ship (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 3,120 GRT/3,635
  DWT

  ships by type:  cargo 1 (2000 est.)

Australia:
  total:  54 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 1,558,371
  GRT/2,038,776 DWT

  ships by type:  bulk 26, cargo 3, chemical tanker 5, container 1,
  liquefied gas 4, passenger 2, petroleum tanker 7, roll on/roll off 6
  (2000 est.)

Austria:
  total:  23 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 86,905
  GRT/117,417 DWT

  ships by type:  bulk 1, cargo 18, combination bulk 2, container 2
  (2000 est.)

Azerbaijan:
  total:  56 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 253,882
  GRT/313,252 DWT

  ships by type:  bulk 1, cargo 12, petroleum tanker 40, roll on/roll
  off 2, short-sea passenger 1 (2000 est.)

Bahamas, The:
  total:  1,049 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
  30,000,221 GRT/44,601,471 DWT

  ships by type:  bulk 185, cargo 214, chemical tanker 36, combination
  bulk 15, combination ore/oil 22, container 66, liquefied gas 33,
  livestock carrier 1, multi-functional large-load carrier 4,
  passenger 79, passenger/cargo 1, petroleum tanker 182, railcar
  carrier 1, refrigerated cargo 118, roll on/roll off 50, short-sea
  passenger 15, specialized tanker 3, vehicle carrier 24

  note:  includes some foreign-owned ships registered here as a flag
  of convenience: Algeria 2, Australia 1, Austria 1, Bermuda 6,
  Belgium 14, Canada 1, Cuba 1, Cyprus 2, Denmark 17, Finland 7,
  France 9, Germany 9, Greece 89, Hong Kong 7, Indonesia 2, India 1,
  Israel 4, Italy 8, Japan 23, Jamaica 1, Kenya 1, Lebanon 2,
  Luxembourg 2, Monaco 15, Malaysia 1, Netherlands 16, Norway 139,
  Poland 3, Portugal 2, Russia 2, Saudi Arabia 5, Singapore 12, Spain
  7, Sweden 14, Syria 1, Switzerland 7, UAE 1, Trinidad and Tobago 2,
  UK 67, Ukraine 3, US 50, British Virgin Islands 1, British Virgin
  Islands 1 (2000 est.)

Bahrain:
  total:  7 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 175,609
  GRT/207,652 DWT

  ships by type:  bulk 2, cargo 3, container 2 (2000 est.)

Bangladesh:
  total:  35 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 268,566
  GRT/375,110 DWT

  ships by type:  bulk 2, cargo 25, container 3, petroleum tanker 2,
  refrigerated cargo 1, roll on/roll off 2 (2000 est.)

Barbados:
  total:  47 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 671,545
  GRT/1,125,635 DWT

  ships by type:  bulk 10, cargo 28, combination bulk 1, container 2,
  petroleum tanker 4, refrigerated cargo 1, roll on/roll off 1

  note:  includes some foreign-owned ships registered here as a flag
  of convenience: Canada 2, Hong Kong 1 (2000 est.)

Belgium:
  total:  21 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 32,912
  GRT/53,161 DWT

  ships by type:  cargo 6, chemical tanker 9, petroleum tanker 6 (2000
  est.)

Belize:
  total:  402 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 1,575,851
  GRT/2,241,731 DWT

  ships by type:  bulk 27, cargo 265, chemical tanker 6, combination
  ore/oil 1, container 14, passenger 1, passenger/cargo 2, petroleum
  tanker 56, refrigerated cargo 18, roll on/roll off 7, short-sea
  passenger 1, specialized tanker 1, vehicle carrier 3

  note:  includes some foreign-owned ships registered here as a flag
  of convenience: Cuba 1, Singapore 1, US 1 (2000 est.)

Benin:
  none (2000 est.)

Bermuda:
  total:  105 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 5,836,538
  GRT/9,728,045 DWT

  ships by type:  bulk 27, cargo 4, container 15, liquefied gas 7,
  passenger 2, petroleum tanker 23, refrigerated cargo 16, roll
  on/roll off 8, short-sea passenger 3

  note:  includes some foreign-owned ships registered here as a flag
  of convenience: Canada 10, Hong Kong 10, Japan 1, Nigeria 4, Saudi
  Arabia 1, Sweden 3, Switzerland 2, UK 10, US 7 (2000 est.)

Bolivia:
  total:  42 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 141,017
  GRT/211,058 DWT

  ships by type:  bulk 5, cargo 20, chemical tanker 3, container 1,
  petroleum tanker 10, roll on/roll off 3 (2000 est.)

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  none (2000 est.)

Brazil:
  total:  171 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 3,788,999
  GRT/6,067,314 DWT

  ships by type:  bulk 33, cargo 26, chemical tanker 5, combination
  ore/oil 9, container 12, liquefied gas 11, multi-functional
  large-load carrier 1, passenger/cargo 5, petroleum tanker 56, roll
  on/roll off 12, short-sea passenger 1 (2000 est.)

British Virgin Islands:
  total:  1 ship (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
  70,285 GRT/6,946 DWT

  ships by type:  passenger 1 (2000 est.)

Brunei:
  total:  7 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 348,476
  GRT/340,635 DWT

  ships by type:  liquefied gas 7 (2000 est.)

Bulgaria:
  total:  81 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 938,706
  GRT/1,440,374 DWT

  ships by type:  bulk 44, cargo 16, chemical tanker 4, container 2,
  passenger/cargo 1, petroleum tanker 6, railcar carrier 2,
  refrigerated cargo 1, roll on/roll off 3, short-sea passenger 1,
  specialized tanker 1 (2000 est.)

Burma:
  total:  37 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 411,181
  GRT/632,769 DWT

  ships by type:  bulk 11, cargo 20, container 1, passenger/cargo 3,
  petroleum tanker 2

  note:  includes some foreign-owned ships registered here as a flag
  of convenience: Japan 2 (2000 est.)

Cambodia:
  total:  295 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 1,305,932
  GRT/1,853,487 DWT

  ships by type:  bulk 22, cargo 237, chemical tanker 1, combination
  bulk 3, container 8, liquefied gas 1, livestock carrier 2,
  multi-functional large-load carrier 1, passenger/cargo 1, petroleum
  tanker 7, refrigerated cargo 6, roll on/roll off 5, short-sea
  passenger 1

  note:  includes some foreign-owned ships registered here as a flag
  of convenience: Cyprus 3, South Korea 1, Malta 1, Panama 1, Russia
  1, Singapore 1 (2000 est.)

Canada:
  total:  121 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 1,767,259
  GRT/2,633,290 DWT

  ships by type:  barge carrier 1, bulk 67, cargo 13, chemical tanker
  5, combination bulk 1, passenger 3, passenger/cargo 1, petroleum
  tanker 17, railcar carrier 2, roll on/roll off 7, short-sea
  passenger 3, specialized tanker 1 (2000 est.)

Cape Verde:
  total:  5 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 9,523
  GRT/11,798 DWT

  ships by type:  cargo 4, chemical tanker 1 (2000 est.)

Cayman Islands:
  total:  106 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
  1,656,452 GRT/2,643,036 DWT

  ships by type:  bulk 21, cargo 5, chemical tanker 27, container 4,
  liquefied gas 1, petroleum tanker 13, refrigerated cargo 30, roll
  on/roll off 4, specialized tanker 1

  note:  includes some foreign-owned ships registered here as a flag
  of convenience: Cyprus 2, Denmark 2, Finland 1, Greece 11, Norway 3,
  UK 3, US 3 (2000 est.)

Chile:
  total:  44 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 606,506
  GRT/884,023 DWT

  ships by type:  bulk 11, cargo 7, chemical tanker 8, container 4,
  liquefied gas 2, passenger 3, petroleum tanker 4, roll on/roll off
  3, vehicle carrier 2 (2000 est.)

China:
  total:  1,745 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 16,533,521
  GRT/24,746,859 DWT

  ships by type:  barge carrier 2, bulk 324, cargo 825, chemical
  tanker 21, combination bulk 11, combination ore/oil 1, container
  132, liquefied gas 24, multi-functional large-load carrier 5,
  passenger 7, passenger/cargo 45, petroleum tanker 258, refrigerated
  cargo 22, roll on/roll off 23, short-sea passenger 41, specialized
  tanker 3, vehicle carrier 1 (2000 est.)

Christmas Island:
  none (2000 est.)

Cocos (Keeling) Islands:
  none (2000 est.)

Colombia:
  total:  13 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 53,322
  GRT/69,444 DWT

  ships by type:  bulk 5, cargo 4, container 1, multi-functional
  large-load carrier 1, petroleum tanker 2 (2000 est.)

Comoros:
  total:  2 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 19,122
  GRT/29,817 DWT

  ships by type:  cargo 2 (2000 est.)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  none (2000 est.)

Cook Islands:
  total:  1 ship (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 2,310
  GRT/2,181 DWT

  ships by type:  cargo 1 (2000 est.)

Costa Rica:
  total:  1 ship (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 1,716 GRT/NA
  DWT

  ships by type:  passenger 1 (2000 est.)

Cote d'Ivoire:
  total:  1 ship (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 1,200
  GRT/1,500 DWT

  ships by type:  petroleum tanker 1 (2000 est.)

Croatia:
  total:  53 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 631,853
  GRT/969,739 DWT

  ships by type:  bulk 11, cargo 18, chemical tanker 1, combination
  bulk 5, container 3, multi-functional large-load carrier 3,
  passenger 1, petroleum tanker 2, refrigerated cargo 2, roll on/roll
  off 4, short-sea passenger 3 (2000 est.)

Cuba:
  total:  15 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 54,821
  GRT/78,062 DWT

  ships by type:  bulk 1, cargo 7, liquefied gas 1, petroleum tanker
  1, refrigerated cargo 5 (2000 est.)

Cyprus:
  total:  1,328 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 22,905,542
  GRT/36,312,219 DWT

  ships by type:  barge carrier 2, bulk 431, cargo 438, chemical
  tanker 23, combination bulk 36, combination ore/oil 4, container
  140, liquefied gas 6, passenger 8, passenger/cargo 1, petroleum
  tanker 143, refrigerated cargo 40, roll on/roll off 42, short-sea
  passenger 9, specialized tanker 2, vehicle carrier 3

  note:  includes some foreign-owned ships registered here as a flag
  of convenience: Austria 8, Belgium 7, China 10, Cuba 10, Denmark 2,
  Germany 79, Greece 385, Hong Kong 9, Croatia 2, India 5, Iran 1,
  Israel 4, Italy 2, Japan 19, South Korea 3, Latvia 10, Lithuania 1,
  Monaco 1, Netherlands 13, Norway 11, Poland 9, Portugal 3, Russia
  42, Singapore 1, Spain 5, Sudan 2, Sweden 3, Switzerland 2, UAE 6,
  UK 8, Ukraine 2, US 9, Venezuela 2 (2000 est.)

Denmark:
  total:  342 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 6,073,489
  GRT/8,027,002 DWT

  ships by type:  bulk 10, cargo 128, chemical tanker 27, container
  76, liquefied gas 26, livestock carrier 6, petroleum tanker 22,
  railcar carrier 1, refrigerated cargo 13, roll on/roll off 23,
  short-sea passenger 7, specialized tanker 3

  note:  includes some foreign-owned ships registered here as a flag
  of convenience: Finland 1 (2000 est.)

Djibouti:
  total:  1 ship (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 1,369
  GRT/3,030 DWT

  ships by type:  cargo 1 (2000 est.)

Dominica:
  none (2000 est.)

Dominican Republic:
  total:  1 ship (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
  1,587 GRT/1,165 DWT

  ships by type:  cargo 1 (2000 est.)

Ecuador:
  total:  30 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 233,312
  GRT/385,784 DWT

  ships by type:  cargo 2, chemical tanker 1, liquefied gas 1,
  passenger 3, petroleum tanker 22, specialized tanker 1 (2000 est.)

Egypt:
  total:  181 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 1,336,678
  GRT/1,982,220 DWT

  ships by type:  bulk 23, cargo 61, container 2, liquefied gas 1,
  passenger 61, petroleum tanker 15, roll on/roll off 15, short-sea
  passenger 3 (2000 est.)

El Salvador:
  none (2000 est.)

Equatorial Guinea:
  total:  12 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
  26,035 GRT/27,927 DWT

  ships by type:  bulk 1, cargo 7, combination bulk 1, passenger 2,
  passenger/cargo 1 (2000 est.)

Eritrea:
  total:  5 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 16,069
  GRT/19,549 DWT

  ships by type:  bulk 1, cargo 1, liquefied gas 1, petroleum tanker
  1, roll on/roll off 1 (2000 est.)

Estonia:
  total:  44 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 253,460
  GRT/219,727 DWT

  ships by type:  bulk 2, cargo 19, combination bulk 1, container 5,
  petroleum tanker 1, roll on/roll off 10, short-sea passenger 6 (2000
  est.)

Ethiopia:
  total:  11 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 85,382
  GRT/108,526 DWT

  ships by type:  cargo 6, container 1, petroleum tanker 1, roll
  on/roll off 3 (2000 est.)

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas):
  none (2000 est.)

Faroe Islands:
  total:  6 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 23,247
  GRT/11,736 DWT

  ships by type:  cargo 2, petroleum tanker 1, refrigerated cargo 1,
  roll on/roll off 1, short-sea passenger 1 (2000 est.)

Fiji:
  total:  6 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 11,870 GRT/14,787
  DWT

  ships by type:  chemical tanker 2, passenger 1, petroleum tanker 1,
  roll on/roll off 1, specialized tanker 1 (2000 est.)

Finland:
  total:  98 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 1,172,808
  GRT/1,138,175 DWT

  ships by type:  bulk 9, cargo 23, chemical tanker 5, passenger 1,
  petroleum tanker 11, railcar carrier 1, roll on/roll off 37,
  short-sea passenger 11 (2000 est.)

France:
  total:  46 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 942,333
  GRT/1,304,754 DWT

  ships by type:  bulk 3, cargo 4, chemical tanker 6, combination bulk
  1, container 1, liquefied gas 3, multi-functional large-load carrier
  1, passenger 3, petroleum tanker 17, roll on/roll off 4, short-sea
  passenger 3

  note:  includes some foreign-owned ships registered here as a flag
  of convenience: Germany 1 (2000 est.)

French Guiana:
  none (2000 est.)

French Polynesia:
  total:  4 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 5,240
  GRT/7,765 DWT

  ships by type:  cargo 1, passenger/cargo 2, refrigerated cargo 1
  (2000 est.)

French Southern and Antarctic Lands:
  total:  74 ships (1,000 GRT or
  over) totaling 3,024,194 GRT/5,255,703 DWT

  ships by type:  bulk 7, cargo 5, chemical tanker 9, container 11,
  liquefied gas 7, petroleum tanker 23, roll on/roll off 12

  note:  includes some foreign-owned ships registered here as a flag
  of convenience: France 1 (2000 est.)

Gambia, The:
  none (2000 est.)

Georgia:
  total:  37 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 131,316
  GRT/190,289 DWT

  ships by type:  bulk 3, cargo 25, chemical tanker 2, container 2,
  petroleum tanker 4, roll on/roll off 1 (2000 est.)

Germany:
  total:  457 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 6,414,724
  GRT/7,952,776 DWT

  ships by type:  cargo 169, chemical tanker 10, combination ore/oil
  1, container 243, liquefied gas 2, passenger 3, petroleum tanker 7,
  railcar carrier 2, refrigerated cargo 1, roll on/roll off 12,
  short-sea passenger 7 (2000 est.)

Ghana:
  total:  6 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 13,484
  GRT/18,583 DWT

  ships by type:  petroleum tanker 2, refrigerated cargo 4 (2000 est.)

Gibraltar:
  total:  49 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 669,056
  GRT/1,003,809 DWT

  ships by type:  bulk 1, cargo 15, chemical tanker 6, container 7,
  multi-functional large-load carrier 3, passenger 2, petroleum tanker
  14, roll on/roll off 1 (2000 est.)

Greece:
  total:  780 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 25,564,988
  GRT/44,761,916 DWT

  ships by type:  bulk 272, cargo 55, chemical tanker 22, combination
  bulk 5, combination ore/oil 6, container 51, liquefied gas 5,
  multi-functional large-load carrier 1, passenger 14, passenger/cargo
  2, petroleum tanker 255, refrigerated cargo 3, roll on/roll off 20,
  short-sea passenger 63, specialized tanker 5, vehicle carrier 1

  note:  includes some foreign-owned ships registered here as a flag
  of convenience: South Korea 1, UK 4 (2000 est.)

Greenland:
  total:  2 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 3,289
  GRT/1,500 DWT

  ships by type:  cargo 1, passenger 1 (2000 est.)

Grenada:
  none (2000 est.)

Guadeloupe:
  total:  1 ship (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 1,240
  GRT/109 DWT

  ships by type:  passenger 1 (2000 est.)

Guam:
  none (2000 est.)

Guatemala:
  none (2000 est.)

Guernsey:
  none (2000 est.)

Guinea:
  none (2000 est.)

Guinea-Bissau:
  none (2000 est.)

Guyana:
  total:  2 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 2,929 GRT/4,507
  DWT

  ships by type:  cargo 2 (2000 est.)

Haiti:
  none (2000 est.)

Honduras:
  total:  313 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 760,819
  GRT/820,582 DWT

  ships by type:  bulk 21, cargo 187, chemical tanker 7, container 4,
  livestock carrier 2, passenger 2, passenger/cargo 4, petroleum
  tanker 52, refrigerated cargo 17, roll on/roll off 8, short-sea
  passenger 5, specialized tanker 2, vehicle carrier 2

  note:  includes some foreign-owned ships registered here as a flag
  of convenience: Russia 4, Singapore 2, Vietnam 1 (2000 est.)

Hong Kong:
  total:  354 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 10,330,662
  GRT/17,227,315 DWT

  ships by type:  barge carrier 1, bulk 208, cargo 36, chemical tanker
  7, combination bulk 2, container 59, liquefied gas 6,
  multi-functional large-load carrier 2, petroleum tanker 26,
  refrigerated cargo 3, short-sea passenger 1, vehicle carrier 3

  note:  includes some foreign-owned ships registered here as a flag
  of convenience: Bermuda 2, Belgium 1, Canada 2, China 9, Japan 3,
  Mongolia 1, Norway 1, South Africa 1, UK 7 (2000 est.)

Hungary:
  total:  1 ship (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 1,199 GRT/1,050
  DWT

  ships by type:  cargo 1 (2000 est.)

Iceland:
  total:  2 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 3,435
  GRT/4,538 DWT

  ships by type:  chemical tanker 1, petroleum tanker 1 (2000 est.)

India:
  total:  315 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 6,433,831
  GRT/10,691,973 DWT

  ships by type:  bulk 117, cargo 70, chemical tanker 15, combination
  bulk 1, combination ore/oil 3, container 15, liquefied gas 9,
  passenger/cargo 5, petroleum tanker 76, short-sea passenger 2,
  specialized tanker 2 (2000 est.)

Indonesia:
  total:  609 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 2,698,157
  GRT/3,723,933 DWT

  ships by type:  bulk 36, cargo 357, chemical tanker 10, container
  25, liquefied gas 3, livestock carrier 1, passenger 7,
  passenger/cargo 14, petroleum tanker 117, refrigerated cargo 1, roll
  on/roll off 15, short-sea passenger 8, specialized tanker 10,
  vehicle carrier 5 (2000 est.)

Iran:
  total:  152 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 4,097,977
  GRT/7,131,688 DWT

  ships by type:  bulk 49, cargo 38, chemical tanker 4, combination
  bulk 1, container 10, liquefied gas 1, multi-functional large-load
  carrier 6, petroleum tanker 32, refrigerated cargo 1, roll on/roll
  off 9, short-sea passenger 1

  note:  includes some foreign-owned ships registered here as a flag
  of convenience: Singapore 1 (2000 est.)

Iraq:
  total:  30 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 453,273
  GRT/779,662 DWT

  ships by type:  cargo 14, passenger 1, passenger/cargo 1, petroleum
  tanker 12, refrigerated cargo 1, roll on/roll off 1 (2000 est.)

Ireland:
  total:  29 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 115,554
  GRT/135,391 DWT

  ships by type:  bulk 4, cargo 22, container 2, short-sea passenger 1
  (2000 est.)

Israel:
  total:  17 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 631,582
  GRT/745,011 DWT

  ships by type:  container 16, roll on/roll off 1 (2000 est.)

Italy:
  total:  445 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 8,005,136
  GRT/10,556,244 DWT

  ships by type:  bulk 44, cargo 41, chemical tanker 77, combination
  ore/oil 4, container 24, liquefied gas 38, multi-functional
  large-load carrier 1, passenger 11, petroleum tanker 85,
  refrigerated cargo 1, roll on/roll off 64, short-sea passenger 26,
  specialized tanker 14, vehicle carrier 15 (2000 est.)

Jamaica:
  total:  1 ship (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 1,930 GRT/3,065
  DWT

  ships by type:  petroleum tanker 1 (2000 est.)

Japan:
  total:  630 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 11,691,174
  GRT/15,484,848 DWT

  ships by type:  bulk 137, cargo 51, chemical tanker 15, combination
  bulk 22, combination ore/oil 3, container 22, liquefied gas 49,
  passenger 9, passenger/cargo 2, petroleum tanker 194, refrigerated
  cargo 15, roll on/roll off 49, short-sea passenger 6, vehicle
  carrier 56 (2000 est.)

Jersey:
  none (2000 est.)

Jordan:
  total:  6 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 40,919
  GRT/57,777 DWT

  ships by type:  bulk 1, cargo 3, container 1, roll on/roll off 1
  (2000 est.)

Kenya:
  total:  2 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 4,893 GRT/6,255
  DWT

  ships by type:  petroleum tanker 1, roll on/roll off 1 (2000 est.)

Kiribati:
  total:  1 ship (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 1,291
  GRT/1,295 DWT

  ships by type:  passenger/cargo 1 (2000 est.)

Korea, North:
  total:  110 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 661,792
  GRT/903,367 DWT

  ships by type:  bulk 4, cargo 94, combination bulk 1,
  multi-functional large-load carrier 1, passenger 2, passenger/cargo
  1, petroleum tanker 4, refrigerated cargo 1, short-sea passenger 2
  (2000 est.)

Korea, South:
  total:  496 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
  5,421,993 GRT/8,757,034 DWT

  ships by type:  bulk 105, cargo 168, chemical tanker 38, combination
  bulk 5, container 49, liquefied gas 16, multi-functional large-load
  carrier 1, passenger 3, petroleum tanker 70, refrigerated cargo 27,
  roll on/roll off 4, short-sea passenger 1, specialized tanker 4,
  vehicle carrier 5 (2000 est.)

Kuwait:
  total:  45 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 2,461,072
  GRT/3,966,645 DWT

  ships by type:  bulk 1, cargo 6, container 6, liquefied gas 7,
  livestock carrier 5, petroleum tanker 20 (2000 est.)

Laos:
  total:  1 ship (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 2,370 GRT/3,000 DWT

  ships by type:  cargo 1 (2000 est.)

Latvia:
  total:  8 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 27,984
  GRT/29,978 DWT

  ships by type:  cargo 2, petroleum tanker 3, refrigerated cargo 3
  (2000 est.)

Lebanon:
  total:  71 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 379,705
  GRT/592,672 DWT

  ships by type:  bulk 10, cargo 42, chemical tanker 1, combination
  bulk 1, combination ore/oil 1, container 4, liquefied gas 1,
  livestock carrier 5, refrigerated cargo 1, roll on/roll off 2,
  vehicle carrier 3

  note:  includes some foreign-owned ships registered here as a flag
  of convenience: Netherlands 1, Syria 1 (2000 est.)

Liberia:
  total:  1,478 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 49,456,361
  GRT/76,620,648 DWT

  ships by type:  barge carrier 3, bulk 324, cargo 97, chemical tanker
  163, combination bulk 20, combination ore/oil 38, container 245,
  liquefied gas 97, multi-functional large-load carrier 4, passenger
  24, petroleum tanker 310, refrigerated cargo 74, roll on/roll off
  19, short-sea passenger 3, specialized tanker 12, vehicle carrier 45

  note:  includes some foreign-owned ships registered here as a flag
  of convenience: Argentina 8, Australia 1, Ashmore and Cartier
  Islands 1, Austria 5, Bermuda 5, Belgium 5, Burma 1, Brazil 8,
  Canada 1, China 28, Chile 7, Costa Rica 8, Cyprus 27, Denmark 4,
  Ecuador 1, Germany 117, Greece 83, Hong Kong 54, Croatia 9,
  Indonesia 2, India 8, Israel 1, Italy 8, Japan 85, South Korea 8,
  Latvia 15, Monaco 28, Mexico 6, Malaysia 1, Nigeria 1, Netherlands
  7, Norway 86, Netherlands Antilles 1, NZ 1, Poland 2, Portugal 2,
  Philippines 1, Russia 22, Saudi Arabia 20, South Africa 1, Slovenia
  1, Singapore 30, Spain 1, Sweden 8, Switzerland 23, UAE 5, Taiwan
  10, UK 15, US 85, Uruguay 1, Vietnam 1 (2000 est.)

Libya:
  total:  28 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 399,725
  GRT/654,843 DWT

  ships by type:  cargo 10, chemical tanker 1, liquefied gas 3,
  petroleum tanker 6, roll on/roll off 4, short-sea passenger 4 (2000
  est.)

Lithuania:
  total:  50 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 293,168
  GRT/327,827 DWT

  ships by type:  cargo 26, combination bulk 10, petroleum tanker 2,
  railcar carrier 1, refrigerated cargo 7, roll on/roll off 1,
  short-sea passenger 3 (2000 est.)

Luxembourg:
  total:  50 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 988,450
  GRT/1,313,498 DWT

  ships by type:  bulk 2, chemical tanker 11, container 2, liquefied
  gas 18, passenger 4, petroleum tanker 6, roll on/roll off 7

  note:  includes some foreign-owned ships registered here as a flag
  of convenience: Belgium 4 (2000 est.)

Macau:
  none (2000 est.)

Madagascar:
  total:  13 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 24,819
  GRT/34,173 DWT

  ships by type:  cargo 7, chemical tanker 1, liquefied gas 1,
  petroleum tanker 2, roll on/roll off 2 (2000 est.)

Malaysia:
  total:  362 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 5,103,657
  GRT/7,574,999 DWT

  ships by type:  bulk 62, cargo 110, chemical tanker 35, container
  60, liquefied gas 20, livestock carrier 1, passenger 2, petroleum
  tanker 58, refrigerated cargo 1, roll on/roll off 6, specialized
  tanker 1, vehicle carrier 6 (2000 est.)

Maldives:
  total:  17 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 58,604
  GRT/81,451 DWT

  ships by type:  cargo 16, short-sea passenger 1 (2000 est.)

Malta:
  total:  1,414 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 28,191,090
  GRT/46,773,603 DWT

  ships by type:  bulk 443, cargo 394, chemical tanker 48, combination
  bulk 12, combination ore/oil 14, container 69, liquefied gas 2,
  livestock carrier 3, multi-functional large-load carrier 2,
  passenger 7, passenger/cargo 1, petroleum tanker 296, refrigerated
  cargo 37, roll on/roll off 50, short-sea passenger 15, specialized
  tanker 3, vehicle carrier 18

  note:  includes some foreign-owned ships registered here as a flag
  of convenience: Argentina 1, Bermuda 1, Belgium 1, Bangladesh 2,
  Bulgaria 11, China 7, Costa Rica 1, Cuba 2, Cyprus 15, Denmark 1,
  Estonia 2, Finland 1, Germany 23, Greece 258, Hong Kong 3, Croatia
  9, Hungary 1, India 2, Israel 2, Italy 17, South Korea 1, Lebanon 2,
  Latvia 2, Lithuania 1, Monaco 14, Nigeria 1, Netherlands 10, Norway
  31, Poland 8, Romania 3, Russia 39, Singapore 6, Spain 3, Sweden 3,
  Syria 1, Switzerland 25, UAE 2, Turkey 24, UK 8, Ukraine 9, US 9,
  Venezuela 1, Vietnam 1 (2000 est.)

Man, Isle of:
  total:  157 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
  4,917,402 GRT/8,333,858 DWT

  ships by type:  bulk 27, cargo 13, chemical tanker 11, combination
  bulk 3, container 20, liquefied gas 13, petroleum tanker 43,
  refrigerated cargo 3, roll on/roll off 18, specialized tanker 1,
  vehicle carrier 5

  note:  includes some foreign-owned ships registered here as a flag
  of convenience: Belgium 1, Denmark 1, Germany 1, Netherlands 1,
  Sweden 1, UK 3 (2000 est.)

Marshall Islands:
  total:  212 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
  9,768,406 GRT/16,242,699 DWT

  ships by type:  bulk 63, cargo 9, chemical tanker 10, combination
  ore/oil 2, container 29, liquefied gas 10, multi-functional
  large-load carrier 1, petroleum tanker 87, vehicle carrier 1

  note:  includes some foreign-owned ships registered here as a flag
  of convenience: Cyprus 1, Germany 1, Japan 1, US 6 (2000 est.)

Martinique:
  none (2000 est.)

Mauritania:
  none (2000 est.)

Mauritius:
  total:  9 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 61,909
  GRT/87,313 DWT

  ships by type:  cargo 2, combination bulk 2, container 2, liquefied
  gas 1, refrigerated cargo 2

  note:  includes a foreign-owned ship registered here as a flag of
  convenience: India 1 (2000 est.)

Mayotte:
  none (2000 est.)

Mexico:
  total:  43 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 590,657
  GRT/920,456 DWT

  ships by type:  bulk 2, cargo 1, chemical tanker 4, liquefied gas 3,
  petroleum tanker 28, roll on/roll off 2, short-sea passenger 3 (2000
  est.)

Micronesia, Federated States of:
  none (2000 est.)

Monaco:
  none (2000 est.)

Montserrat:
  none (2000 est.)

Morocco:
  total:  41 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 223,052
  GRT/272,786 DWT

  ships by type:  cargo 9, chemical tanker 6, container 5, petroleum
  tanker 3, refrigerated cargo 9, roll on/roll off 8, short-sea
  passenger 1 (2000 est.)

Mozambique:
  total:  3 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 4,125
  GRT/7,024 DWT

  ships by type:  cargo 3 (2000 est.)

Namibia:
  none (2000 est.)

Nauru:
  none (2000 est.)

Netherlands:
  total:  596 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
  4,321,500 GRT/4,877,632 DWT

  ships by type:  bulk 3, cargo 371, chemical tanker 43, container 59,
  liquefied gas 21, livestock carrier 1, multi-functional large-load
  carrier 9, passenger 8, petroleum tanker 26, refrigerated cargo 29,
  roll on/roll off 18, short-sea passenger 3, specialized tanker 5
  (2000 est.)

Netherlands Antilles:
  total:  123 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
  1,113,774 GRT/1,397,841 DWT

  ships by type:  bulk 1, cargo 35, chemical tanker 2, combination
  ore/oil 3, container 19, liquefied gas 4, multi-functional
  large-load carrier 19, passenger 1, petroleum tanker 4, refrigerated
  cargo 28, roll on/roll off 7

  note:  includes some foreign-owned ships registered here as a flag
  of convenience: Belgium 8, Germany 1, Italy 1 (2000 est.)

New Caledonia:
  total:  1 ship (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 1,261
  GRT/1,600 DWT

  ships by type:  cargo 1 (2000 est.)

New Zealand:
  total:  9 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 72,389
  GRT/109,018 DWT

  ships by type:  bulk 3, cargo 1, container 1, petroleum tanker 2,
  railcar carrier 1, roll on/roll off 1 (2000 est.)

Nicaragua:
  none (2000 est.)

Nigeria:
  total:  41 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 357,372
  GRT/636,254 DWT

  ships by type:  bulk 1, cargo 10, chemical tanker 4, petroleum
  tanker 24, roll on/roll off 1, specialized tanker 1 (2000 est.)

Niue:
  none (2000 est.)

Norfolk Island:
  none (2000 est.)

Northern Mariana Islands:
  none (2000 est.)

Norway:
  total:  764 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 20,667,370
  GRT/32,100,208 DWT

  ships by type:  bulk 89, cargo 139, chemical tanker 114, combination
  bulk 9, combination ore/oil 37, container 15, liquefied gas 84,
  passenger 10, petroleum tanker 151, refrigerated cargo 10, roll
  on/roll off 45, short-sea passenger 22, specialized tanker 1,
  vehicle carrier 38

  note:  includes some foreign-owned ships registered here as a flag
  of convenience: Germany 1, Japan 1, Mexico 1, Sweden 1 (2000 est.)

Oman:
  total:  4 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 18,167 GRT/11,307
  DWT

  ships by type:  cargo 2, passenger 1, passenger/cargo 1 (2000 est.)

Pakistan:
  total:  17 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 240,605
  GRT/367,040 DWT

  ships by type:  cargo 13, container 3, petroleum tanker 1 (2000 est.)

Palau:
  none (2000 est.)

Panama:
  total:  4,711 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 111,515,984
  GRT/169,655,363 DWT

  ships by type:  bulk 1,381, cargo 925, chemical tanker 314,
  combination bulk 71, combination ore/oil 18, container 525,
  liquefied gas 193, livestock carrier 5, multi-functional large-load
  carrier 12, passenger 41, passenger/cargo 4, petroleum tanker 544,
  railcar carrier 2, refrigerated cargo 297, roll on/roll off 106,
  short-sea passenger 36, specialized tanker 29, vehicle carrier 208

  note:  includes some foreign-owned ships registered here as a flag
  of convenience: Argentina 11, Australia 1, Austria 1, Bermuda 21,
  Belgium 4, The Bahamas 7, Brazil 2, Canada 4, China 154, Chile 4,
  Cayman Islands 1, Colombia 6, Cuba 7, Cyprus 4, Denmark 12, Egypt 8,
  Ireland 2, Equatorial Guinea 1, Finland 1, France 4, Germany 17,
  Greece 248, Hong Kong 158, Honduras 2, Croatia 3, Indonesia 40,
  India 11, Iran 1, Israel 3, Italy 7, Japan 1,007, Jordan 2, South
  Korea 223, Latvia 4, Lithuania 1, Liberia 2, Monaco 43, Malta 1,
  Mexico 5, Malaysia 6, Netherlands 6, Norway 36, Netherlands Antilles
  1, Peru 5, Pakistan 1, Portugal 5, Philippines 10, Russia 6, Saudi
  Arabia 6, Seychelles 2, South Africa 5, Singapore 73, Spain 35,
  Sweden 4, Syria 11, Switzerland 53, UAE 11, Thailand 15, Taiwan 170,
  UK 18, US 79, Venezuela 18, Samoa 1 (2000 est.)

Papua New Guinea:
  total:  20 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
  35,361 GRT/51,096 DWT

  ships by type:  bulk 1, cargo 9, chemical tanker 1, combination
  ore/oil 3, container 1, petroleum tanker 3, roll on/roll off 2 (2000
  est.)

Paraguay:
  total:  20 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 31,066
  GRT/35,441 DWT

  ships by type:  cargo 14, chemical tanker 1, petroleum tanker 3,
  roll on/roll off 2 (2000 est.)

Peru:
  total:  6 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 40,623 GRT/61,769
  DWT

  ships by type:  cargo 5, petroleum tanker 1 (2000 est.)

Philippines:
  total:  459 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
  5,653,062 GRT/8,512,326 DWT

  ships by type:  bulk 149, cargo 123, chemical tanker 4, combination
  bulk 10, container 5, liquefied gas 13, livestock carrier 10,
  passenger 4, passenger/cargo 12, petroleum tanker 42, refrigerated
  cargo 21, roll on/roll off 17, short-sea passenger 31, specialized
  tanker 2, vehicle carrier 16

  note:  includes some foreign-owned ships registered here as a flag
  of convenience: Cyprus 1, Denmark 1, Hong Kong 5, Japan 14,
  Netherlands 1, Singapore 1, UK 1 (2000 est.)

Pitcairn Islands:
  none (2000 est.)

Poland:
  total:  46 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 943,540
  GRT/1,532,694 DWT

  ships by type:  bulk 41, cargo 2, chemical tanker 1, roll on/roll
  off 1, short-sea passenger 1 (2000 est.)

Portugal:
  total:  158 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 1,053,586
  GRT/1,611,238 DWT

  ships by type:  bulk 14, cargo 84, chemical tanker 16, container 10,
  liquefied gas 7, multi-functional large-load carrier 1, petroleum
  tanker 11, refrigerated cargo 1, roll on/roll off 6, short-sea
  passenger 4, vehicle carrier 4

  note:  includes some foreign-owned ships registered here as a flag
  of convenience: Spain 1 (2000 est.)

Qatar:
  total:  25 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 677,992
  GRT/1,049,447 DWT

  ships by type:  cargo 10, combination ore/oil 2, container 7,
  petroleum tanker 6 (2000 est.)

Reunion:
  total:  1 ship (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 28,264
  GRT/44,885 DWT

  ships by type:  chemical tanker 1 (2000 est.)

Romania:
  total:  95 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 695,227
  GRT/931,598 DWT

  ships by type:  bulk 10, cargo 71, container 1, passenger 1,
  passenger/cargo 1, petroleum tanker 4, railcar carrier 2, roll
  on/roll off 4, specialized tanker 1 (2000 est.)

Russia:
  total:  878 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 4,314,485
  GRT/5,344,958 DWT

  ships by type:  barge carrier 1, bulk 20, cargo 543, chemical tanker
  4, combination bulk 21, combination ore/oil 7, container 31,
  multi-functional large-load carrier 1, passenger 35, passenger/cargo
  3, petroleum tanker 164, refrigerated cargo 24, roll on/roll off 17,
  short-sea passenger 7

  note:  includes a foreign-owned ship registered here as a flag of
  convenience: Reunion 1 (2000 est.)

Saint Helena:
  none (2000 est.)

Saint Kitts and Nevis:
  none (2000 est.)

Saint Lucia:
  none (2000 est.)

Saint Pierre and Miquelon:
  none (2000 est.)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:
  total:  800 ships (1,000 GRT or
  over) totaling 6,705,336 GRT/10,134,002 DWT

  ships by type:  barge carrier 1, bulk 131, cargo 395, chemical
  tanker 29, combination bulk 12, combination ore/oil 1, container 46,
  liquefied gas 7, livestock carrier 3, multi-functional large-load
  carrier 4, passenger 2, petroleum tanker 56, refrigerated cargo 42,
  roll on/roll off 49, short-sea passenger 11, specialized tanker 10,
  vehicle carrier 1

  note:  includes some foreign-owned ships registered here as a flag
  of convenience: China 4, Ireland 1, France 1, Greece 3, Hong Kong 1,
  Croatia 10, India 1, Japan 2, Monaco 1, Netherlands 1, Norway 2,
  Netherlands Antilles 1, Pakistan 1, Russia 1, Slovenia 5, UAE 1
  (2000 est.)

Sao Tome and Principe:
  total:  39 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
  130,843 GRT/149,048 DWT

  ships by type:  bulk 3, cargo 21, chemical tanker 1, container 3,
  liquefied gas 1, livestock carrier 1, petroleum tanker 1,
  refrigerated cargo 2, roll on/roll off 5, specialized tanker 1 (2000
  est.)

Saudi Arabia:
  total:  71 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
  1,154,619 GRT/1,533,732 DWT

  ships by type:  cargo 11, chemical tanker 8, container 5, liquefied
  gas 1, livestock carrier 3, passenger 1, petroleum tanker 18,
  refrigerated cargo 3, roll on/roll off 13, short-sea passenger 8
  (2000 est.)

Seychelles:
  total:  1 ship (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 5,353
  GRT/7,638 DWT

  ships by type:  cargo 1 (2000 est.)

Sierra Leone:
  total:  1 ship (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 2,057
  GRT/3,498 DWT

  ships by type:  cargo 1 (2000 est.)

Singapore:
  total:  879 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 20,849,168
  GRT/33,215,317 DWT

  ships by type:  bulk 134, cargo 111, chemical tanker 63, combination
  bulk 10, combination ore/oil 6, container 167, liquefied gas 28,
  livestock carrier 2, multi-functional large-load carrier 4,
  passenger 1, petroleum tanker 295, refrigerated cargo 7, roll
  on/roll off 7, short-sea passenger 1, specialized tanker 10, vehicle
  carrier 33

  note:  includes some foreign-owned ships registered here as a flag
  of convenience: Australia 1, Bermuda 12, Belgium 6, China 9, Denmark
  29, Germany 8, Greece 1, Hong Kong 20, Indonesia 9, Japan 32, South
  Korea 3, Netherlands 2, Norway 9, Russia 1, Sweden 22, Thailand 22,
  Taiwan 17, UK 3, US 10 (2000 est.)

Slovakia:
  total:  3 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 15,041
  GRT/19,517 DWT

  ships by type:  cargo 3 (2000 est.)

Solomon Islands:
  none (2000 est.)

Somalia:
  none (2000 est.)

South Africa:
  total:  8 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 271,650
  GRT/268,604 DWT

  ships by type:  container 6, petroleum tanker 2 (2000 est.)

Spain:
  total:  135 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 1,208,730
  GRT/1,773,378 DWT

  ships by type:  bulk 10, cargo 26, chemical tanker 10, container 9,
  liquefied gas 2, livestock carrier 1, passenger 1, petroleum tanker
  24, refrigerated cargo 5, roll on/roll off 35, short-sea passenger
  8, specialized tanker 1, vehicle carrier 3 (2000 est.)

Sri Lanka:
  total:  20 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 149,902
  GRT/247,852 DWT

  ships by type:  bulk 1, cargo 16, container 1, petroleum tanker 1,
  refrigerated cargo 1 (2000 est.)

Sudan:
  total:  4 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 38,093
  GRT/49,727 DWT

  ships by type:  cargo 2, roll on/roll off 2 (2000 est.)

Suriname:
  total:  3 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 3,432
  GRT/4,525 DWT

  ships by type:  cargo 1, container 1, petroleum tanker 1 (2000 est.)

Svalbard:
  none (2000 est.)

Sweden:
  total:  167 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 2,205,370
  GRT/1,663,091 DWT

  ships by type:  bulk 5, cargo 28, chemical tanker 31, combination
  ore/oil 4, liquefied gas 1, passenger 1, petroleum tanker 29,
  railcar carrier 1, roll on/roll off 40, short-sea passenger 4,
  specialized tanker 6, vehicle carrier 17 (2000 est.)

Switzerland:
  total:  24 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 435,966
  GRT/780,458 DWT

  ships by type:  bulk 12, cargo 6, chemical tanker 5, petroleum
  tanker 1

  note:  includes some foreign-owned ships registered here as a flag
  of convenience: UK 1 (2000 est.)

Syria:
  total:  133 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 425,392
  GRT/612,097 DWT

  ships by type:  bulk 11, cargo 117, livestock carrier 4, roll
  on/roll off 1 (2000 est.)

Tanzania:
  total:  8 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 21,987
  GRT/27,121 DWT

  ships by type:  cargo 2, passenger/cargo 2, petroleum tanker 2, roll
  on/roll off 1, short-sea passenger 1 (2000 est.)

Thailand:
  total:  294 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 1,845,972
  GRT/2,923,914 DWT

  ships by type:  bulk 36, cargo 133, chemical tanker 3, combination
  bulk 1, container 14, liquefied gas 20, multi-functional large-load
  carrier 3, passenger 1, petroleum tanker 61, refrigerated cargo 13,
  roll on/roll off 2, short-sea passenger 2, specialized tanker 5
  (2000 est.)

Togo:
  total:  1 ship (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 2,603 GRT/2,800 DWT

  ships by type:  specialized tanker 1 (2000 est.)

Tokelau:
  none (2000 est.)

Tonga:
  total:  8 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 20,626
  GRT/29,468 DWT

  ships by type:  bulk 1, cargo 2, liquefied gas 3, petroleum tanker
  1, roll on/roll off 1 (2000 est.)

Trinidad and Tobago:
  total:  2 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
  2,439 GRT/4,040 DWT

  ships by type:  cargo 1, petroleum tanker 1 (2000 est.)

Tunisia:
  total:  15 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 149,554
  GRT/156,861 DWT

  ships by type:  bulk 2, cargo 4, chemical tanker 3, liquefied gas 1,
  petroleum tanker 1, short-sea passenger 3, specialized tanker 1
  (2000 est.)

Turkey:
  total:  548 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 5,617,302
  GRT/9,088,451 DWT

  ships by type:  bulk 140, cargo 242, chemical tanker 41, combination
  bulk 5, combination ore/oil 6, container 21, liquefied gas 6,
  passenger/cargo 1, petroleum tanker 43, refrigerated cargo 3, roll
  on/roll off 25, short-sea passenger 10, specialized tanker 5 (2000
  est.)

Turkmenistan:
  total:  1 ship (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 6,459
  GRT/8,865 DWT

  ships by type:  container 1 (2000 est.)

Turks and Caicos Islands:
  none (2000 est.)

Tuvalu:
  total:  9 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 52,135
  GRT/68,300 DWT

  ships by type:  cargo 5, passenger/cargo 1, petroleum tanker 1, roll
  on/roll off 2 (2000 est.)

Uganda:
  total:  3 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 5,091 GRT/8,229
  DWT

  ships by type:  roll on/roll off

  note:  these ships are in cargo and passenger service on Uganda's
  inland waterways (2000 est.)

Ukraine:
  total:  156 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 757,582
  GRT/841,755 DWT

  ships by type:  bulk 8, cargo 110, container 3, liquefied gas 2,
  passenger 11, passenger/cargo 2, petroleum tanker 14, railcar
  carrier 2, roll on/roll off 2, short-sea passenger 2 (2000 est.)

United Arab Emirates:
  total:  70 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
  1,094,256 GRT/1,421,333 DWT

  ships by type:  cargo 16, chemical tanker 3, container 17, liquefied
  gas 1, livestock carrier 1, passenger 1, petroleum tanker 24, roll
  on/roll off 6, specialized tanker 1 (2000 est.)

United Kingdom:
  total:  200 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
  3,934,776 GRT/3,760,240 DWT

  ships by type:  bulk 4, cargo 31, chemical tanker 11, combination
  ore/oil 1, container 47, liquefied gas 3, passenger 14,
  passenger/cargo 1, petroleum tanker 52, refrigerated cargo 4, roll
  on/roll off 19, short-sea passenger 10, specialized tanker 1,
  vehicle carrier 2

  note:  includes some foreign-owned ships registered here as a flag
  of convenience: Denmark 1 (2000 est.)

United States:
  total:  376 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
  10,814,622 GRT/14,416,517 DWT

  ships by type:  barge carrier 9, bulk 68, cargo 29, chemical tanker
  13, combination bulk 3, container 80, liquefied gas 1,
  multi-functional large-load carrier 3, passenger 9, passenger/cargo
  1, petroleum tanker 98, roll on/roll off 49, short-sea passenger 3,
  specialized tanker 1, vehicle carrier 9 (2000 est.)

Uruguay:
  total:  2 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 7,752
  GRT/5,228 DWT

  ships by type:  petroleum tanker 1, roll on/roll off 1 (2000 est.)

Vanuatu:
  total:  54 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 1,067,384
  GRT/1,330,543 DWT

  ships by type:  bulk 23, cargo 7, chemical tanker 3, combination
  bulk 2, container 1, liquefied gas 3, petroleum tanker 2,
  refrigerated cargo 7, vehicle carrier 6

  note:  includes some foreign-owned ships registered here as a flag
  of convenience: Australia 2, Canada 1, China 1, France 1, Greece 1,
  Hong Kong 1, Japan 22, Netherlands 1, Norway 1, Switzerland 1, US 4
  (2000 est.)

Venezuela:
  total:  36 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 490,160
  GRT/897,694 DWT

  ships by type:  bulk 7, cargo 10, liquefied gas 2, passenger/cargo
  1, petroleum tanker 7, roll on/roll off 8, short-sea passenger 1
  (2000 est.)

Vietnam:
  total:  143 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 705,388
  GRT/1,071,902 DWT

  ships by type:  bulk 8, cargo 108, chemical tanker 1, combination
  bulk 1, container 2, liquefied gas 2, petroleum tanker 18,
  refrigerated cargo 3 (2000 est.)

Virgin Islands:
  none (2000 est.)

Wallis and Futuna:
  total:  4 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling
  48,853 GRT/43,128 DWT

  ships by type:  passenger 3, petroleum tanker 1

  note:  includes some foreign-owned ships registered here as a flag
  of convenience: France 1 (2000 est.)

Yemen:
  total:  4 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 15,075
  GRT/23,562 DWT

  ships by type:  cargo 1, petroleum tanker 3 (2000 est.)

Yugoslavia:
  total:  1 ship (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 2,437
  GRT/400 DWT

  ships by type:  short-sea passenger 1 (2000 est.)

Taiwan:
  total:  167 ships (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 4,768,145
  GRT/7,508,941 DWT

  ships by type:  bulk 45, cargo 29, combination bulk 1, container 65,
  petroleum tanker 17, refrigerated cargo 8, roll on/roll off 2 (2000
  est.)

======================================================================

@Military - note



American Samoa:
  defense is the responsibility of the US

Andorra:
  defense is the responsibility of France and Spain

Anguilla:
  defense is the responsibility of the UK

Antarctica:
  the Antarctic Treaty prohibits any measures of a
  military nature, such as the establishment of military bases and
  fortifications, the carrying out of military maneuvers, or the
  testing of any type of weapon; it permits the use of military
  personnel or equipment for scientific research or for any other
  peaceful purposes

Aruba:
  defense is the responsibility of the Kingdom of the
  Netherlands

Ashmore and Cartier Islands:
  defense is the responsibility of
  Australia; periodic visits by the Royal Australian Navy and Royal
  Australian Air Force

Baker Island:
  defense is the responsibility of the US; visited
  annually by the US Coast Guard

Bassas da India:
  defense is the responsibility of France

Bermuda:
  defense is the responsibility of the UK

Bouvet Island:
  defense is the responsibility of Norway

British Indian Ocean Territory:
  defense is the responsibility of the
  UK; the US lease on Diego Garcia expires in 2016

British Virgin Islands:
  defense is the responsibility of the UK

Cayman Islands:
  defense is the responsibility of the UK

Christmas Island:
  defense is the responsibility of Australia

Clipperton Island:
  defense is the responsibility of France

Cocos (Keeling) Islands:
  defense is the responsibility of Australia

Cook Islands:
  defense is the responsibility of New Zealand, in
  consultation with the Cook Islands and at its request

Coral Sea Islands:
  defense is the responsibility of Australia;
  visited regularly by the Royal Australian Navy; Australia has
  control over the activities of visitors

Cuba:
  Moscow, for decades the key military supporter and supplier of
  Cuba, cut off almost all military aid by 1993

Europa Island:
  defense is the responsibility of France

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas):
  defense is the responsibility of
  the UK

Faroe Islands:
  defense is the responsibility of Denmark

French Guiana:
  defense is the responsibility of France

French Polynesia:
  defense is the responsibility of France

French Southern and Antarctic Lands:
  defense is the responsibility
  of France

Georgia:
  a CIS peacekeeping force consisting of Russian troops is
  deployed in the Abkhazia region of Georgia together with a UN
  military observer group; a Russian peacekeeping battalion is
  deployed in South Ossetia

Gibraltar:
  defense is the responsibility of the UK

Glorioso Islands:
  defense is the responsibility of France

Greenland:
  defense is the responsibility of Denmark

Guadeloupe:
  defense is the responsibility of France

Guam:
  defense is the responsibility of the US

Guernsey:
  defense is the responsibility of the UK

Heard Island and McDonald Islands:
  defense is the responsibility of
  Australia

Holy See (Vatican City):
  defense is the responsibility of Italy;
  Swiss Papal Guards are posted at entrances to the Vatican City to
  provide security and protect the Pope

Hong Kong:
  defense is the responsibility of China

Howland Island:
  defense is the responsibility of the US; visited
  annually by the US Coast Guard

Iceland:
  defense is provided by the US-manned Icelandic Defense
  Force (IDF) headquartered at Keflavik

Jan Mayen:
  defense is the responsibility of Norway

Jarvis Island:
  defense is the responsibility of the US; visited
  annually by the US Coast Guard

Jersey:
  defense is the responsibility of the UK

Johnston Atoll:
  defense is the responsibility of the US

Juan de Nova Island:
  defense is the responsibility of France

Kingman Reef:
  defense is the responsibility of the US

Kiribati:
  Kiribati does not have military forces; defense assistance
  is provided by Australia and NZ

Lesotho:
  The Lesotho Government in 1999 began an open debate on the
  future structure, size, and role of the armed forces, especially
  considering the Lesotho Defense Force's (LDF) history of intervening
  in political affairs.

Liechtenstein:
  defense is the responsibility of Switzerland

Macau:
  responsibility for defense reverted to China on 20 December
  1999

Man, Isle of:
  defense is the responsibility of the UK

Marshall Islands:
  defense is the responsibility of the US

Martinique:
  defense is the responsibility of France

Mayotte:
  defense is the responsibility of France; small contingent
  of French forces stationed on the island

Micronesia, Federated States of:
  Federated States of Micronesia
  (FSM) is a sovereign, self-governing state in free association with
  the US; FSM is totally dependent on the US for its defense

Midway Islands:
  defense is the responsibility of the US

Monaco:
  defense is the responsibility of France

Montserrat:
  defense is the responsibility of the UK

Nauru:
  Nauru maintains no defense forces; under an informal
  agreement, defense is the responsibility of Australia

Navassa Island:
  defense is the responsibility of the US

Netherlands Antilles:
  defense is the responsibility of the Kingdom
  of the Netherlands

New Caledonia:
  defense is the responsibility of France

Niue:
  defense is the responsibility of New Zealand

Norfolk Island:
  defense is the responsibility of Australia

Northern Mariana Islands:
  defense is the responsibility of the US

Palau:
  defense is the responsibility of the US; under a Compact of
  Free Association between Palau and the US, the US military is
  granted access to the islands for 50 years

Palmyra Atoll:
  defense is the responsibility of the US

Panama:
  on 10 February 1990, the government of then President ENDARA
  abolished Panama's military and reformed the security apparatus by
  creating the Panamanian Public Forces; in October 1994, Panama's
  Legislative Assembly approved a constitutional amendment prohibiting
  the creation of a standing military force, but allowing the
  temporary establishment of special police units to counter acts of
  "external aggression"

Paracel Islands:
  occupied by China

Pitcairn Islands:
  defense is the responsibility of the UK

Puerto Rico:
  defense is the responsibility of the US

Reunion:
  defense is the responsibility of France

Saint Helena:
  defense is the responsibility of the UK

Saint Pierre and Miquelon:
  defense is the responsibility of France

Samoa:
  Samoa has no formal defense structure or regular armed
  forces; informal defense ties exist with NZ, which is required to
  consider any Samoan request for assistance under the 1962 Treaty of
  Friendship

South Africa:
  the National Defense Force continues to integrate
  former military, black homelands forces, and ex-opposition forces

South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands:
  defense is the
  responsibility of the UK

Spratly Islands:
  Spratly Islands consist of more than 100 small
  islands or reefs, of which about 45 are claimed and occupied by
  China, Malaysia, the Philippines, Taiwan, and Vietnam

Svalbard:
  demilitarized by treaty (9 February 1920)

Tokelau:
  defense is the responsibility of New Zealand

Tromelin Island:
  defense is the responsibility of France

Turks and Caicos Islands:
  defense is the responsibility of the UK

Virgin Islands:
  defense is the responsibility of the US

Wake Island:
  defense is the responsibility of the US

Wallis and Futuna:
  defense is the responsibility of France

======================================================================

@Military branches



Afghanistan:
  NA; note - the military does not exist on a national
  basis; some elements of the former Army, Air and Air Defense Forces,
  National Guard, Border Guard Forces, National Police Force
  (Sarandoi), and tribal militias still exist but are factionalized
  among the various groups

Albania:
  Army, Navy, Air and Air Defense Forces, Interior Ministry
  Troops, Border Guards

Algeria:
  National Popular Army, Navy, Air Force, Territorial Air
  Defense, National Gendarmerie

Angola:
  Army, Navy, Air and Air Defense Forces, National Police Force

Antigua and Barbuda:
  Royal Antigua and Barbuda Defense Force, Royal
  Antigua and Barbuda Police Force (includes Coast Guard)

Argentina:
  Argentine Army, Navy of the Argentine Republic (includes
  Naval Aviation, Marines, and Coast Guard), Argentine Air Force,
  National Gendarmerie, National Aeronautical Police Force

Armenia:
  Army, Air Force and Air Defense Aviation, Air Defense
  Force, Security Forces (internal and border troops)

Aruba:
  Royal Dutch Navy and Marines, Coast Guard

Australia:
  Australian Army, Royal Australian Navy, Royal Australian
  Air Force

Austria:
  Army (includes Flying Division)

Azerbaijan:
  Army, Navy, Air and Air Defense Forces, Border Guards

Bahamas, The:
  Royal Bahamas Defense Force (Coast Guard only), Royal
  Bahamas Police Force

Bahrain:
  Ground Force, Navy, Air Force, Coast Guard, Police Force

Bangladesh:
  Army, Navy, Coast Guard, Air Force, paramilitary forces
  (includes Bangladesh Rifles, Bangladesh Ansars, Village Defense
  Parties, National Cadet Corps), Armed Police battalions

Barbados:
  Royal Barbados Defense Force (includes Ground Forces and
  Coast Guard), Royal Barbados Police Force

Belarus:
  Army, Air Force, Air Defense Force, Interior Ministry
  Troops, Border Guards

Belgium:
  Army, Navy, Air Force, National Gendarmerie, Medical Service

Belize:
  Belize Defense Force (includes Army, Maritime Wing, Air
  Wing, and Volunteer Guard)

Benin:
  Armed Forces (includes Army, Navy, Air Force), National
  Gendarmerie

Bermuda:
  Bermuda Regiment, Bermuda Police Force, Bermuda Reserve
  Constabulary

Bhutan:
  Royal Bhutan Army, National Militia, Royal Bhutan Police,
  Royal Body Guards, Forest Guards (paramilitary)

Bolivia:
  Army (Ejercito Boliviano), Navy (Fuerza Naval Boliviana,
  includes Marines), Air Force (Fuerza Aerea Boliviana), National
  Police Force (Policia Nacional de Bolivia)

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  Federation Army or VF (composed of both
  Croatian and Bosniak elements), Republika Srpska Army or VRS
  (composed of Bosnian Serb elements); note - within both of these
  forces air and air defense are subordinate commands

Botswana:
  Botswana Defense Force (includes Army and Air Wing),
  Botswana National Police

Brazil:
  Brazilian Army, Brazilian Navy (includes naval air and
  marines), Brazilian Air Force, Federal Police (paramilitary)

Brunei:
  Land Forces, Navy, Air Force, Royal Brunei Police

Bulgaria:
  Army, Navy, Air and Air Defense Forces, Civil Defense
  Forces, Internal Troops

Burkina Faso:
  Army, Air Force, National Gendarmerie, National
  Police, People's Militia

Burma:
  Army, Navy, Air Force

Burundi:
  Army (includes naval and air units), paramilitary
  Gendarmerie

Cambodia:
  Royal Cambodian Armed Forces (RCAF), including Army, Navy,
  and Air Force - created in 1993 by the merger of the Cambodian
  People's Armed Forces and the two noncommunist resistance armies

  note:  Khmer Rouge and royalist insurgent forces were integrated
  into the RCAF in 1999

Cameroon:
  Army, Navy (includes Naval Infantry), Air Force, National
  Gendarmerie, Presidential Guard

Canada:
  Canadian Forces (includes Land Forces Command or LC,
  Maritime Command or MC, Air Command or AC, Communications Command or
  CC, Training Command or TC), Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP)

Cape Verde:
  Army, Coast Guard/Marines

Cayman Islands:
  Royal Cayman Islands Police Force (RCIPF)

Central African Republic:
  Central African Armed Forces (includes
  Army, Air Force, Presidential Guard, National Gendarmerie, Police
  Force)

Chad:
  Armed Forces (includes Ground Force, Air Force, and
  Gendarmerie), Republican Guard, Rapid Intervention Force, Police,
  Rural and Nomadic Guard (GNNT)

Chile:
  Army, Navy (includes Naval Air, Coast Guard, and Marines),
  Air Force, Carabineros of Chile (National Police), Investigations
  Police

  note:  Carabineros and Investigations Police are normally
  administered by the Ministry of Interior, but in times of national
  emergency, they are considered part of the military

China:
  People's Liberation Army (PLA) - which includes Ground
  Forces, Navy (includes Marines and Naval Aviation), Air Force,
  Second Artillery Corps (the strategic missile force), People's Armed
  Police (internal security troops, nominally subordinate to Ministry
  of Public Security, but included by the Chinese as part of the
  "armed forces" and considered to be an adjunct to the PLA in wartime)

Colombia:
  Army (Ejercito Nacional), Navy (Armada Nacional, includes
  Marines and Coast Guard), Air Force (Fuerza Aerea Colombiana),
  National Police (Policia Nacional)

Comoros:
  Comoran Security Force

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  Army, Navy, Air Force, Special
  Presidential Security Group

Congo, Republic of the:
  Army, Air Force, Navy, Gendarmerie

Costa Rica:
  Coast Guard, Air Section, Ministry of Public Security
  Force (Fuerza Publica)

  note:  Costa Rica has no military, only domestic police forces,
  including the Coast Guard and Air Section

Cote d'Ivoire:
  Army, Navy, Air Force, paramilitary Gendarmerie,
  Republican Guard (includes Presidential Guard), Sapeur-Pompier
  (Military Fire Group)

Croatia:
  Ground Forces, Naval Forces, Air and Air Defense Forces

Cuba:
  Revolutionary Armed Forces (FAR) includes ground forces,
  Revolutionary Navy (MGR), Air and Air Defense Force (DAAFAR),
  Territorial Troops Militia (MTT), and Youth Labor Army (EJT); the
  Border Guard (TGF) is controlled by the Interior Ministry

Cyprus:
  Greek Cypriot area: Greek Cypriot National Guard (GCNG;
  includes air and naval elements), Hellenic Forces Contingent on
  Cyprus (ELDYK), Greek Cypriot Police; Turkish Cypriot area: Turkish
  Cypriot Security Force (TCSF), Turkish mainland army units

Czech Republic:
  Army, Air and Air Defense Forces, Territorial
  Defense, Railroad Units

Denmark:
  Royal Danish Army, Royal Danish Navy, Royal Danish Air
  Force, Home Guard

Djibouti:
  Djibouti National Army (includes Navy and Air Force)

Dominica:
  Commonwealth of Dominica Police Force (includes Special
  Service Unit, Coast Guard)

Dominican Republic:
  Army, Navy, Air Force, National Police

Ecuador:
  Army (Ejercito Ecuatoriano), Navy (Armada Ecuatoriana,
  includes Marines), Air Force (Fuerza Aerea Ecuatoriana), National
  Police (Policia Nacional)

Egypt:
  Army, Navy, Air Force, Air Defense Command

El Salvador:
  Army, Navy, Air Force

Equatorial Guinea:
  Army, Navy, Air Force, Rapid Intervention Force,
  National Police

Eritrea:
  Army, Navy, Air Force

Estonia:
  Ground Forces, Navy/Coast Guard, Air and Air Defense Force
  (not officially sanctioned), Maritime Border Guard, Volunteer
  Defense League (Kaitseliit), Security Forces (internal and border
  troops)

Ethiopia:
  Ground Forces, Air Force, Police, Militia

  note:  Ethiopia is landlocked and has no navy; following the
  independence of Eritrea, Ethiopian naval facilities remained in
  Eritrean possession and ships which belonged to the former Ethiopian
  Navy and based at Djibouti have been sold

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas):
  British Forces Falkland Islands
  (includes Army, Royal Air Force, Royal Navy, and Royal Marines),
  Police Force

Faroe Islands:
  defense is the responsibility of Denmark; no
  organized native military forces; only a small Police Force and
  Coast Guard are maintained

Fiji:
  Republic of Fiji Military Forces (RFMF; includes ground and
  naval forces)

Finland:
  Army, Navy, Air Force, Frontier Guard (includes Sea Guard)

France:
  Army (includes Marines), Navy (includes Naval Air), Air
  Force (includes Air Defense), National Gendarmerie

French Guiana:
  French Forces, Gendarmerie

French Polynesia:
  French Forces (includes Army, Navy, Air Force),
  Gendarmerie

Gabon:
  Army, Navy, Air Force, Republican Guard (charged with
  protecting the president and other senior officials), National
  Gendarmerie, National Police

Gambia, The:
  Army (includes marine unit), National Police,
  Presidential Guard

Gaza Strip:
  NA

Georgia:
  Ground Forces, Navy, Air Force and Air Defense Forces,
  National Guard, Security Forces (internal and border troops)

Germany:
  Army, Navy (includes Naval Air Arm), Air Force, Medical
  Corps, Border Police, Coast Guard

Ghana:
  Army, Navy, Air Force, National Police Force, Palace Guard,
  Civil Defense

Gibraltar:
  British Army, Royal Navy, Royal Air Force

Greece:
  Hellenic Army, Hellenic Navy, Hellenic Air Force, National
  Guard, Police

Grenada:
  Royal Grenada Police Force (includes Special Service Unit),
  Coast Guard

Guadeloupe:
  French Forces, Gendarmerie

Guatemala:
  Army, Navy, Air Force

Guinea:
  Army, Navy, Air Force, Republican Guard, Presidential Guard,
  paramilitary National Gendarmerie, National Police Force (Surete
  National)

Guinea-Bissau:
  People's Revolutionary Armed Force (FARP; includes
  Army, Navy, and Air Force), paramilitary force

Guyana:
  Guyana Defense Force (GDF; includes Ground Forces, Coast
  Guard, and Air Corps), Guyana People's Militia (GPM), Guyana
  National Service (GNS), Guyana Police Force

Haiti:
  Haitian National Police (HNP)

  note:  the regular Haitian Army, Navy, and Air Force have been
  demobilized but still exist on paper until constitutionally abolished

Honduras:
  Army, Navy (includes Marines), Air Force

Hong Kong:
  Hong Kong garrison of China's People's Liberation Army
  (PLA) including elements of the PLA Ground Forces, PLA Navy, and PLA
  Air Force; these forces are under the direct leadership of the
  Central Military Commission in Beijing and under administrative
  control of the adjacent Guangzhou Military Region

Hungary:
  Ground Forces, Air Force; note - there is a paramilitary
  Border Guard which is under the Ministry of Interior

Iceland:
  no regular armed forces; Police, Coast Guard; note -
  Iceland's defense is provided by the US-manned Icelandic Defense
  Force (IDF) headquartered at Keflavik

India:
  Army, Navy (including naval air arm), Air Force, various
  security or paramilitary forces (includes Border Security Force,
  Assam Rifles, Rashtriya Rifles, and National Security Guards)

Indonesia:
  Army, Navy, Air Force, Marines

  note:  as of 1 July 2000, the National Police became an independent
  organization that reports directly to the president

Iran:
  Islamic Republic of Iran regular forces (includes Ground
  Forces, Navy, Air and Air Defense Forces), Revolutionary Guards
  (includes Ground, Air, Navy, Qods, and Basij-mobilization-forces),
  Law Enforcement Forces

Iraq:
  Army, Republican Guard, Navy, Air Force, Air Defense Force,
  Border Guard Force, Fedayeen Saddam

Ireland:
  Army (includes Naval Service and Air Corps), National
  Police (Garda Siochana)

Israel:
  Israel Defense Forces (includes ground, naval, and air
  components), Pioneer Fighting Youth (Nahal), Frontier Guard, Chen
  (women); note - historically there have been no separate Israeli
  military services

Italy:
  Army, Navy, Air Force, Carabinieri

Jamaica:
  Jamaica Defense Force (includes Ground Forces, Coast Guard,
  and Air Wing), Jamaica Constabulary Force

Japan:
  Japan Ground Self-Defense Force (Army), Japan Maritime
  Self-Defense Force (Navy), Japan Air Self-Defense Force (Air Force)

Jordan:
  Jordanian Armed Forces (JAF; includes Royal Jordanian Land
  Force, Royal Naval Force, and Royal Jordanian Air Force); Ministry
  of the Interior's Public Security Force (falls under JAF only in
  wartime or crisis situations)

Kazakhstan:
  General Purpose Forces (Army), Air Force, Border Guards,
  Navy, Republican Guard

Kenya:
  Army, Navy, Air Force, paramilitary General Service Unit of
  the Police

Kiribati:
  no regular military forces; Police Force (carries out law
  enforcement functions and paramilitary duties; small police posts
  are on all islands)

Korea, North:
  Korean People's Army (includes Army, Navy, Air Force),
  Civil Security Forces

Korea, South:
  Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, National Maritime
  Police (Coast Guard)

Kuwait:
  Army, Navy, Air Force, National Police Force, National
  Guard, Coast Guard

Kyrgyzstan:
  Army, Air and Air Defense, Security Forces, Border Troops

Laos:
  Lao People's Army (LPA; includes riverine element), Air Force,
  National Police Department

Latvia:
  Ground Forces, Navy, Air and Air Defense Forces, Security
  Forces, Border Guard, Home Guard (Zemessardze)

Lebanon:
  Lebanese Armed Forces (LAF; includes Army, Navy, and Air
  Force)

Lesotho:
  Lesotho Defense Force (LDF; includes Army and Air Wing),
  Royal Lesotho Mounted Police (RLMP)

Liberia:
  Army, Air Force, Navy

Libya:
  Army, Navy, Air and Air Defense Command

Lithuania:
  Ground Forces, Navy, Air and Air Defense Force, Security
  Forces (internal and border troops), National Guard (Skat)

Luxembourg:
  Army; note - the government abolished the Gendarmerie

Macau:
  Macau garrison of China's People's Liberation Army (PLA)
  includes about 500 troops

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  Army (includes Air and
  Air Defense Forces), Police Force

Madagascar:
  Popular Armed Forces (includes Intervention Forces,
  Development Forces, Aeronaval Forces - includes Navy and Air Force),
  Gendarmerie, Presidential Security Regiment

Malawi:
  Army (includes Air Wing and Naval Detachment), Police
  (includes paramilitary Mobile Force Unit)

Malaysia:
  Malaysian Army, Royal Malaysian Navy, Royal Malaysian Air
  Force, Royal Malaysian Police Force, Marine Police, Sarawak Border
  Scouts

Maldives:
  National Security Service

Mali:
  Army, Air Force, Gendarmerie, Republican Guard, National
  Guard, National Police (Surete Nationale)

Malta:
  Armed Forces (including land forces, an air squadron, a
  maritime squadron, and the Revenue Security Corps), Maltese Police
  Force

Marshall Islands:
  no regular military forces (a coast guard may be
  established); Police Force

Martinique:
  French forces (Army, Navy, Air Force), Gendarmerie

Mauritania:
  Army, Navy, Air Force, National Gendarmerie, National
  Guard, National Police, Presidential Guard

Mauritius:
  National Police Force (includes the paramilitary Special
  Mobile Force or SMF and National Coast Guard)

Mexico:
  National Defense Secretariat (includes Army and Air Force),
  Navy Secretariat (includes Naval Air and Naval Infantry)

Moldova:
  Ground Forces, Air and Air Defense Forces, Republic
  Security Forces (internal and border troops)

Mongolia:
  Mongolian Armed Forces (includes General Purpose Forces,
  Air and Air Defense Forces, Civil Defense Troops); note - Border
  Troops are under Ministry of Justice and Home Affairs in peacetime

Montserrat:
  Police Force

Morocco:
  Royal Armed Forces (includes Army, Navy, Air Force),
  Gendarmerie, Auxiliary Forces

Mozambique:
  Army, Naval Command, Air and Air Defense Forces, Militia

Namibia:
  National Defense Force (Army), Police

Nauru:
  no regular armed forces; Directorate of the Nauru Police Force

Nepal:
  Royal Nepalese Army (includes Royal Nepalese Army Air
  Service), Nepalese Police Force

Netherlands:
  Royal Netherlands Army, Royal Netherlands Navy
  (includes Naval Air Service and Marine Corps), Royal Netherlands Air
  Force, Royal Constabulary

Netherlands Antilles:
  Royal Netherlands Navy, Marine Corps, Coast
  Guard, National Guard, Police Force

New Caledonia:
  French Armed Forces (Army, Navy, Air Force,
  Gendarmerie); Police Force

New Zealand:
  New Zealand Army, Royal New Zealand Navy, Royal New
  Zealand Air Force

Nicaragua:
  Army, Navy, Air Force

Niger:
  Army, Air Force, National Gendarmerie, Republican Guard,
  National Police

Nigeria:
  Army, Navy, Air Force

Niue:
  Police Force

Norway:
  Norwegian Army, Royal Norwegian Navy (includes Coast
  Artillery and Coast Guard), Royal Norwegian Air Force, Home Guard

Oman:
  Army, Navy, Air Force, paramilitary (includes Royal Oman
  Police)

Pakistan:
  Army, Navy, Air Force, Civil Armed Forces, National Guard

Palau:
  NA

Panama:
  an amendment to the Constitution abolished the armed forces,
  but there are security forces (Panamanian Public Forces or PPF
  includes the Panamanian National Police, National Maritime Service,
  and National Air Service)

Papua New Guinea:
  Papua New Guinea Defense Force (includes Ground,
  Naval, and Air Forces, and Special Forces Unit)

Paraguay:
  Army, Navy (includes Naval Air and Marines), Air Force

Peru:
  Army (Ejercito Peruano), Navy (Marina de Guerra del Peru;
  includes Naval Air, Marines, and Coast Guard), Air Force (Fuerza
  Aerea del Peru), National Police (Policia Nacional)

Philippines:
  Army, Navy (includes Coast Guard and Marine Corps), Air
  Force

Poland:
  Army, Navy, Air and Air Defense Force

Portugal:
  Army, Navy (includes Marines), Air Force, National
  Republican Guard

Puerto Rico:
  paramilitary National Guard, Police Force

Qatar:
  Army, Navy, Air Force, Public Security

Reunion:
  French forces (Army, Navy, Air Force, and Gendarmerie)

Romania:
  Army, Navy, Air and Air Defense Forces, Paramilitary
  Forces, Civil Defense

Russia:
  Ground Forces, Navy, Air Force, Strategic Rocket Forces

Rwanda:
  Army, Navy, Air Force

Saint Kitts and Nevis:
  Royal Saint Kitts and Nevis Police Force,
  Coast Guard, Royal Saint Kitts and Nevis Defense Force

Saint Lucia:
  Royal Saint Lucia Police Force (includes Special
  Service Unit), Coast Guard

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:
  Royal Saint Vincent and the
  Grenadines Police Force (includes Special Service Unit), Coast Guard

Samoa:
  no regular armed services; Samoa Police Force

San Marino:
  Voluntary Military Force, Police Force

Sao Tome and Principe:
  Army, Navy, Security Police

Saudi Arabia:
  Land Force (Army), Navy, Air Force, Air Defense Force,
  National Guard, Ministry of Interior Forces (paramilitary)

Senegal:
  Army, Navy, Air Force, National Gendarmerie, National
  Police (Surete Nationale)

Seychelles:
  Army, Coast Guard, air wing, National Guard,
  Presidential Protection Unit, Police Force

Sierra Leone:
  Army

Singapore:
  Army, Navy, Air Force, People's Defense Force, Police
  Force

Slovakia:
  Ground Forces, Air and Air Defense Forces, Territorial
  Defense Forces, Civil Defense Force

Slovenia:
  Slovenian Army (includes Air and Naval Forces)

Solomon Islands:
  no regular military forces; Solomon Islands
  National Reconnaissance and Surveillance Force; Royal Solomon
  Islands Police (RSIP)

Somalia:
  A Somali National Army is being reformed under the interim
  government; numerous factions and clans maintain independent
  militias, and the Somaliland and Puntland regional governments
  maintain their own security and police forces

South Africa:
  South African National Defense Force or SANDF
  (includes Army, Navy, Air Force, and Medical Services), South
  African Police Service or SAPS

Spain:
  Army, Navy, Air Force, Marines, Civil Guard, National Police,
  Coastal Civil Guard

Sri Lanka:
  Army, Navy, Air Force, Police Force

Sudan:
  Army, Navy, Air Force, Popular Defense Force Militia

Suriname:
  National Army (includes small Navy and Air Force
  elements), Civil Police

Swaziland:
  Umbutfo Swaziland Defense Force (Army), Royal Swaziland
  Police Force

Sweden:
  Swedish Army, Royal Swedish Navy, Swedish Air Force

Switzerland:
  Army, Air Force, Frontier Guards, Fortification Guards

Syria:
  Syrian Arab Army, Syrian Arab Navy, Syrian Arab Air Force,
  Syrian Arab Air Defense Forces, Police and Security Force

Tajikistan:
  Army, Air Force, Air Defense Forces, Presidential
  National Guard, Security Forces (internal and border troops)

Tanzania:
  Tanzanian People's Defense Force or TPDF (includes Army,
  Navy, and Air Force), paramilitary Police Field Force Unit, Militia

Thailand:
  Royal Thai Army, Royal Thai Navy (includes Royal Thai
  Marine Corps), Royal Thai Air Force, Paramilitary Forces

Togo:
  Army, Navy, Air Force, Gendarmerie

Tonga:
  Tonga Defense Services (includes Royal Tongan Marines, Tongan
  Royal Guards, Maritime Force, Police); note - a new Air Wing which
  will be subordinate to the Defense Ministry is being developed

Trinidad and Tobago:
  Trinidad and Tobago Defense Force (includes
  Ground Forces, Coast Guard, and Air Wing), Trinidad and Tobago
  Police Service

Tunisia:
  Army, Navy, Air Force, paramilitary forces, National Guard

Turkey:
  Land Force, Navy (includes Naval Air and Naval Infantry),
  Air Force, Coast Guard, Gendarmerie

Turkmenistan:
  Ministry of Defense (Army, Air and Air Defense, Navy,
  Border Troops, and Internal Troops), National Guard

Tuvalu:
  no regular military forces; Police Force includes Maritime
  Surveillance Unit for search and rescue missions and surveillance
  operations

Uganda:
  Army, Air Wing, Marine Unit

Ukraine:
  Army, Navy, Air Force, Air Defense Force, Internal Troops,
  Border Troops

United Arab Emirates:
  Army, Navy, Air Force, Air Defense,
  paramilitary (includes Federal Police Force)

United Kingdom:
  Army, Royal Navy (includes Royal Marines), Royal Air
  Force

United States:
  Department of the Army, Department of the Navy
  (includes Marine Corps), Department of the Air Force

  note:  the Coast Guard is normally subordinate to the Department of
  Transportation, but in wartime reports to the Department of the Navy

Uruguay:
  Army, Navy (includes Naval Air Arm, Coast Guard, Marines),
  Air Force, Police (Coracero Guard, Grenadier Guard)

Uzbekistan:
  Army, Air and Air Defense Forces, Security Forces
  (internal and border troops), National Guard

Vanuatu:
  no regular military forces; Vanuatu Police Force (VPF;
  includes the paramilitary Vanuatu Mobile Force or VMF)

Venezuela:
  National Armed Forces (Fuerzas Armadas Nacionales or FAN)
  includes Ground Forces or Army (Fuerzas Terrestres or Ejercito),
  Naval Forces (Fuerzas Navales or Armada), Air Force (Fuerzas Aereas
  or Aviacion), Armed Forces of Cooperation or National Guard (Fuerzas
  Armadas de Cooperacion or Guardia Nacional)

Vietnam:
  People's Army of Vietnam (PAVN) (includes Ground Forces,
  Navy, and Air Force), Coast Guard

West Bank:
  NA

Western Sahara:
  NA

Yemen:
  Army, Navy, Coast Guard, Air Force, Air Defense Forces,
  Presidential Guards, paramilitary (includes Police)

Yugoslavia:
  Army (including ground forces with border troops, naval
  forces, air and air defense forces)

Zambia:
  Army, Air Force, National Service, police

Zimbabwe:
  Zimbabwe National Army, Air Force of Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe
  Republic Police (includes Police Support Unit, Paramilitary Police)

Taiwan:
  Army, Navy (includes Marines), Air Force, Coastal Patrol and
  Defense Command, Armed Forces Reserve Command, Combined Service
  Forces

======================================================================

@Military expenditures - dollar figure



Afghanistan:
  $NA

Albania:
  $42 million (FY99)

Algeria:
  $1.87 billion (FY99)

Angola:
  $1.2 billion (FY97)

Antigua and Barbuda:
  $NA

Argentina:
  $4.3 billion (FY99)

Armenia:
  $75 million (FY99)

Australia:
  $6.9 billion (FY98/99)

Austria:
  $1.7 billion (FY98)

Azerbaijan:
  $121 million (FY99)

Bahamas, The:
  $20 million (FY95/96)

Bahrain:
  $318 million (FY99)

Bangladesh:
  $559 million (FY96/97)

Barbados:
  $NA

Belarus:
  $156 million (FY98)

Belgium:
  $2.5 billion (FY01)

Belize:
  $17 million (FY98/99)

Benin:
  $27 million (FY96)

Bermuda:
  $NA

Bhutan:
  $NA

Bolivia:
  $147 million (FY99)

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  $NA

Botswana:
  $61 million (FY99)

Brazil:
  $13.408 billion (FY99)

Brunei:
  $343 million (FY98)

Bulgaria:
  $344 million (FY00)

Burkina Faso:
  $66 million (FY96)

Burma:
  $39 million (FY97/98)

Burundi:
  $57 million (FY97)

Cambodia:
  $112 million (FY01 est.)

Cameroon:
  $118.6 million (FY00/01)

Canada:
  $7.5 billion (FY00/01)

Cape Verde:
  $4 million (FY96)

Central African Republic:
  $29 million (FY96)

Chad:
  $39 million (FY96)

Chile:
  $2.5 billion (FY99)

China:
  $12.608 billion (FY99); note - China's real defense spending
  may be several times higher than the official figure because a
  number of significant items are funded elsewhere

Colombia:
  $3 billion (FY00)

Comoros:
  $NA

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  $250 million (FY97)

Congo, Republic of the:
  $110 million (FY93)

Costa Rica:
  $69 million (FY99)

Cote d'Ivoire:
  $94 million (FY96)

Croatia:
  $575 million (2000)

Cuba:
  $NA

Cyprus:
  $370 million (FY00)

Czech Republic:
  $1.2 billion (FY01)

Denmark:
  $2.47 billion (FY99)

Djibouti:
  $23 million (FY97)

Dominica:
  $NA

Dominican Republic:
  $180 million (FY98)

Ecuador:
  $720 million (FY98)

Egypt:
  $4.04 billion (FY99/00)

El Salvador:
  $112 million (FY99)

Equatorial Guinea:
  $3 million (FY97/98)

Eritrea:
  $160 million (2000 est.)

Estonia:
  $70 million (FY99)

Ethiopia:
  $138 million (FY98/99)

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas):
  $NA

Faroe Islands:
  $NA

Fiji:
  $24 million (FY98)

Finland:
  $1.8 billion (FY98)

France:
  $39.831 billion (FY97)

French Guiana:
  $NA

Gabon:
  $91 million (FY96)

Gambia, The:
  $2.6 million (2001 est.)

Gaza Strip:
  $NA

Georgia:
  $23 million (FY00)

Germany:
  $32.8 billion (FY98)

Ghana:
  $53 million (FY99)

Greece:
  $6.12 billion (FY99/00 est.)

Grenada:
  $NA

Guatemala:
  $120 million (FY99)

Guinea:
  $56 million (FY96)

Guinea-Bissau:
  $8 million (FY96)

Guyana:
  $7 million (FY94)

Haiti:
  $NA; note - mainly for police and security activities

Honduras:
  $35 million (FY99)

Hong Kong:
  $NA; note - separate budget for Hong Kong not established
  by China

Hungary:
  $822 million (FY00)

Iceland:
  $0

India:
  $13.02 billion (FY01)

Indonesia:
  $1 billion (FY98/99)

Iran:
  $5.787 billion (FY98/99)

Iraq:
  $NA

Ireland:
  $738 million (2001 est.)

Israel:
  $8.7 billion (FY99)

Italy:
  $20.7 billion (FY00/01)

Jamaica:
  $30 million (FY95/96 est.)

Japan:
  $43 billion (FY01)

Jordan:
  $608.9 million (FY98/99)

Kazakhstan:
  $322 million (FY99)

Kenya:
  $197 million (FY98/99)

Kiribati:
  $NA

Korea, North:
  $3.7 billion to $4.9 billion (FY98 est.)

Korea, South:
  $12 billion (2000)

Kuwait:
  $1.9 billion (FY00/01)

Kyrgyzstan:
  $12 million (FY99)

Laos:
  $55 million (FY98)

Latvia:
  $60 million (FY99)

Lebanon:
  $343 million (FY99/00)

Lesotho:
  $34 million (1999)

Liberia:
  $1 million (FY98)

Libya:
  $1.3 billion (FY99/00)

Lithuania:
  $181 million (FY99)

Luxembourg:
  $131 million (FY98/99)

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  $76.3 million (FY00/01)

Madagascar:
  $29 million (FY94)

Malawi:
  $9.5 million (FY00/01)

Malaysia:
  $1.69 billion (FY00 est.)

Maldives:
  $NA

Mali:
  $49 million (FY96)

Malta:
  $201 million (FY98)

Marshall Islands:
  $NA

Mauritania:
  $41 million (FY97/98)

Mauritius:
  $11 million (FY97/98)

Mexico:
  $4 billion (FY99)

Moldova:
  $6 million (FY99)

Mongolia:
  $25.5 million (FY01)

Morocco:
  $1.4 billion (FY99/00)

Mozambique:
  $35.1 million (2000 est.)

Namibia:
  $104.4 million (2001)

Nauru:
  $NA

Nepal:
  $44 million (FY96/97)

Netherlands:
  $6.5 billion (FY00/01 est.)

New Caledonia:
  $192.3 million (1996)

New Zealand:
  $883 million (FY97/98)

Nicaragua:
  $26 million (FY98)

Niger:
  $20 million (FY96)

Nigeria:
  $360 million (FY00)

Norway:
  $3.113 billion (FY98)

Oman:
  $2.4 billion (FY00)

Pakistan:
  $2.435 billion (FY99/00)

Palau:
  $NA

Panama:
  $128 million (FY99)

Papua New Guinea:
  $42 million (FY98)

Paraguay:
  $125 million (FY98)

Peru:
  $1 billion (FY00)

Philippines:
  $995 million (FY98)

Poland:
  $3.17 billion (FY00)

Portugal:
  $2.458 billion (FY97)

Qatar:
  $723 million (FY00/01)

Romania:
  $720 million (FY00)

Russia:
  $NA

Rwanda:
  $58 million (FY01)

Saint Kitts and Nevis:
  $NA

Saint Lucia:
  $5 million (FY91/92)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:
  $NA

Samoa:
  $NA

San Marino:
  $700,000 (FY00)

Sao Tome and Principe:
  $1 million (FY94)

Saudi Arabia:
  $18.3 billion (FY00)

Senegal:
  $68 million (FY97)

Seychelles:
  $13 million (FY93)

Sierra Leone:
  $46 million (FY96/97)

Singapore:
  $5 billion (FY00/01 est.)

Slovakia:
  $380 million (FY00)

Slovenia:
  $370 million (FY00)

Solomon Islands:
  $NA

Somalia:
  $NA

South Africa:
  $2 billion (FY00/01)

Spain:
  $6 billion (FY97)

Sri Lanka:
  $719 million (FY98)

Sudan:
  $550 million (FY98)

Suriname:
  $8.5 million (FY97 est.)

Swaziland:
  $19.198 million (FY00/01)

Sweden:
  $5 billion (FY98)

Switzerland:
  $3.1 billion (FY98)

Syria:
  $921 million (FY00 est.); note - based on official budget
  data that may understate actual spending

Tajikistan:
  $17 million (FY97)

Tanzania:
  $21 million (FY98/99)

Thailand:
  $1.775 billion (FY00)

Togo:
  $27 million (FY96)

Tonga:
  $NA

Trinidad and Tobago:
  $83 million (FY94)

Tunisia:
  $356 million (FY99)

Turkey:
  $10.6 billion (FY99)

Turkmenistan:
  $90 million (FY99)

Tuvalu:
  $NA

Uganda:
  $95 million (FY98/99)

Ukraine:
  $500 million (FY99)

United Arab Emirates:
  $1.6 billion (FY00)

United Kingdom:
  $36.884 billion (FY97)

United States:
  $276.7 billion (FY99 est.)

Uruguay:
  $172 million (FY98)

Uzbekistan:
  $200 million (FY97)

Vanuatu:
  $NA

Venezuela:
  $934 million (FY99)

Vietnam:
  $650 million (FY98)

West Bank:
  $NA

Western Sahara:
  $NA

World:
  aggregate real expenditure on arms worldwide in 1999 remained
  at approximately the 1998 level, about three-quarters of a trillion
  dollars (1999 est.)

Yemen:
  $414 million (FY99)

Yugoslavia:
  $760 million (FY00)

Zambia:
  $76 million (FY97)

Zimbabwe:
  $127 million (FY99/00)

Taiwan:
  $8.042 billion (FY98/99)

======================================================================

@Military expenditures - percent of GDP



Afghanistan:
  NA%

Albania:
  1.5% (FY99)

Algeria:
  4.1% (FY99)

Angola:
  22% (1999)

Antigua and Barbuda:
  NA%

Argentina:
  1.3% (FY99)

Armenia:
  4% (FY99)

Australia:
  1.9% (FY98/99)

Austria:
  1.2% (FY98)

Azerbaijan:
  2.6% (FY99)

Bahamas, The:
  NA%

Bahrain:
  5.2% (FY99)

Bangladesh:
  1.8% (FY96/97)

Barbados:
  NA%

Belarus:
  1.2% (FY98)

Belgium:
  1.2% (FY99)

Belize:
  2.4% (FY98/99)

Benin:
  1.2% (FY96)

Bermuda:
  NA%

Bhutan:
  NA%

Bolivia:
  1.8% (FY99)

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  NA%

Botswana:
  1.2% (FY99)

Brazil:
  1.9% (FY99)

Brunei:
  5.1% (FY98)

Bulgaria:
  2.4% (FY00)

Burkina Faso:
  2% (FY96)

Burma:
  2.1% (FY97/98)

Burundi:
  6.1% (FY97)

Cambodia:
  3% (FY01 est.)

Cameroon:
  1.4% (FY98/99)

Canada:
  1.3% (FY00/01)

Cape Verde:
  1.8% (FY96)

Central African Republic:
  2.2% (FY96)

Chad:
  3.5% (FY96)

Chile:
  3.1% (FY99)

China:
  1.2% (FY99)

Colombia:
  3.4% (FY00)

Comoros:
  NA%

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  4.6% (FY97)

Congo, Republic of the:
  3.8% (FY93)

Costa Rica:
  1.6% (FY99)

Cote d'Ivoire:
  1% (FY96)

Croatia:
  3.8% (2000)

Cuba:
  roughly 4% (FY95 est.)

Cyprus:
  4.2% (FY00)

Czech Republic:
  2.2% (FY01)

Denmark:
  1.4% (FY99)

Djibouti:
  4.5% (FY97)

Dominica:
  NA%

Dominican Republic:
  1.1% (FY98)

Ecuador:
  3.4% (FY98)

Egypt:
  4.1% (FY99/00)

El Salvador:
  0.7% (FY99)

Equatorial Guinea:
  0.6% (FY97/98)

Eritrea:
  29.4% (2000 est.)

Estonia:
  1.2% (FY99)

Ethiopia:
  2.5% (FY98/99)

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas):
  NA%

Faroe Islands:
  NA%

Fiji:
  1.1% (FY98)

Finland:
  2% (FY98)

France:
  2.5% (FY97)

French Guiana:
  NA%

Gabon:
  1.6% (FY96)

Gambia, The:
  2% (FY96/97)

Gaza Strip:
  NA%

Georgia:
  0.59% (FY00)

Germany:
  1.5% (FY98)

Ghana:
  0.7% (FY99)

Greece:
  4.91% (FY99/00 est.)

Grenada:
  NA%

Guatemala:
  0.6% (FY99)

Guinea:
  1.4% (FY96)

Guinea-Bissau:
  2.8% (FY96)

Guyana:
  1.7% (FY94)

Haiti:
  NA%

Honduras:
  0.6% (FY99)

Hong Kong:
  NA%

Hungary:
  1.6% (FY00)

India:
  2.5% (FY00)

Indonesia:
  1.3% (FY98/99)

Iran:
  2.9% (FY98/99)

Iraq:
  NA%

Ireland:
  0.75% (2001 est.)

Israel:
  9.4% (FY99)

Italy:
  1.7% (FY00/01)

Jamaica:
  NA%

Japan:
  0.96% (FY01)

Jordan:
  7.8% (FY98/99)

Kazakhstan:
  1.5% (FY99)

Kenya:
  1.9% (FY98/99)

Kiribati:
  NA%

Korea, North:
  25% to 33% (FY98 est.)

Korea, South:
  3.2% (FY98/99)

Kuwait:
  8.7% (FY00/01)

Kyrgyzstan:
  1% (FY99)

Laos:
  4.2% (FY96/97)

Latvia:
  0.9% (FY99)

Lebanon:
  4.8% (FY99/00)

Lesotho:
  NA%

Liberia:
  2% (FY98)

Libya:
  3.9% (FY99/00)

Lithuania:
  1.66% (FY00)

Luxembourg:
  1% (FY98/99)

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  2.17% (FY00/01)

Madagascar:
  1% (FY94)

Malawi:
  0.76% (FY00/01)

Malaysia:
  2.03% (FY00)

Maldives:
  NA%

Mali:
  2% (FY96)

Malta:
  5.5% (FY98)

Marshall Islands:
  NA%

Mauritania:
  2.7% (FY97/98)

Mauritius:
  0.3% (FY97/98)

Mexico:
  1% (FY99)

Moldova:
  1% (FY99)

Mongolia:
  2.3% (FY01)

Morocco:
  4% (FY99/00)

Mozambique:
  1% (2000 est.)

Namibia:
  2.6% (FY97/98)

Nauru:
  NA%

Nepal:
  0.9% (FY96/97)

Netherlands:
  1.5% (FY00/01 est.)

New Caledonia:
  5.3% (1996)

New Zealand:
  1.1% (FY97/98)

Nicaragua:
  1.2% (FY98)

Niger:
  1.1% (FY96)

Nigeria:
  10% (FY00)

Norway:
  2.1% (FY98)

Oman:
  13% (FY00)

Pakistan:
  3.9% (FY99/00)

Palau:
  NA%

Panama:
  1.3% (FY99)

Papua New Guinea:
  1% (FY98)

Paraguay:
  1.4% (FY98)

Peru:
  1.9% (FY00)

Philippines:
  1.5% (FY98)

Poland:
  1.95% (FY00)

Portugal:
  2.6% (FY97)

Qatar:
  10% (FY00/01)

Romania:
  2.2% (FY00)

Russia:
  NA%

Rwanda:
  3.2% (FY01)

Saint Kitts and Nevis:
  NA%

Saint Lucia:
  2% (FY91/92)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:
  NA%

Samoa:
  NA%

San Marino:
  NA%

Sao Tome and Principe:
  1.5% (FY94)

Saudi Arabia:
  13% (FY00)

Senegal:
  1.4% (FY97)

Seychelles:
  2.8% (FY93)

Sierra Leone:
  2% (FY96/97)

Singapore:
  4.5% (FY00/01 est.)

Slovakia:
  1.71% (FY00)

Slovenia:
  1.7% (FY00)

Solomon Islands:
  NA%

Somalia:
  NA%

South Africa:
  1.5% (FY99/00)

Spain:
  1.1% (FY97)

Sri Lanka:
  4.2% (FY98)

Sudan:
  NA%

Suriname:
  1.6% (FY97 est.)

Swaziland:
  4.75% (FY00/01)

Sweden:
  2.1% (FY98)

Switzerland:
  1.2% (FY98)

Syria:
  5.9% (FY98)

Tajikistan:
  1.8% (FY97)

Tanzania:
  0.2% (FY98/99)

Thailand:
  1.4% (FY00)

Togo:
  2% (FY96)

Tonga:
  NA%

Trinidad and Tobago:
  NA%

Tunisia:
  1.5% (FY99)

Turkey:
  5.6% (FY99)

Turkmenistan:
  3.4% (FY99)

Tuvalu:
  NA%

Uganda:
  1.9% (FY98/99)

Ukraine:
  1.4% (FY99)

United Arab Emirates:
  3.1% (FY00)

United Kingdom:
  2.7% (FY97)

United States:
  3.2% (FY99 est.)

Uruguay:
  0.9% (FY98)

Uzbekistan:
  2% (FY97)

Vanuatu:
  NA%

Venezuela:
  0.9% (FY99)

Vietnam:
  2.5% (FY98)

West Bank:
  NA%

Western Sahara:
  NA%

World:
  roughly 2% of gross world product (1999 est.)

Yemen:
  7.6% (FY99)

Yugoslavia:
  NA%

Zambia:
  1.8% (FY97)

Zimbabwe:
  3.1% (FY99/00)

Taiwan:
  2.8% (FY98/99)

======================================================================

@Military manpower - availability



Afghanistan:
  males age 15-49:  6,645,023 (2001 est.)

Albania:
  males age 15-49:  870,768 (2001 est.)

Algeria:
  males age 15-49:  8,794,622 (2001 est.)

Angola:
  males age 15-49:  2,480,016 (2001 est.)

Argentina:
  males age 15-49:  9,404,434 (2001 est.)

Armenia:
  males age 15-49:  905,154 (2001 est.)

Australia:
  males age 15-49:  4,990,107 (2001 est.)

Austria:
  males age 15-49:  2,091,263 (2001 est.)

Azerbaijan:
  males age 15-49:  2,102,780 (2001 est.)

Bahrain:
  males age 15-49:  222,141 (2001 est.)

Bangladesh:
  males age 15-49:  36,005,553 (2001 est.)

Barbados:
  males age 15-49:  78,069 (2001 est.)

Belarus:
  males age 15-49:  2,729,956 (2001 est.)

Belgium:
  males age 15-49:  2,517,596 (2001 est.)

Belize:
  males age 15-49:  62,698 (2001 est.)

Benin:
  males age 15-49:  1,455,433

  females age 15-49:  1,489,947

  note:  both sexes are liable for military service (2001 est.)

Bhutan:
  males age 15-49:  504,342 (2001 est.)

Bolivia:
  males age 15-49:  2,005,660 (2001 est.)

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  males age 15-49:  1,127,146 (2001 est.)

Botswana:
  males age 15-49:  380,152 (2001 est.)

Brazil:
  males age 15-49:  48,298,486 (2001 est.)

Brunei:
  males age 15-49:  106,725 (2001 est.)

Bulgaria:
  males age 15-49:  1,891,498 (2001 est.)

Burkina Faso:
  males age 15-49:  2,592,974 (2001 est.)

Burma:
  males age 15-49:  12,050,964

  females age 15-49:  12,070,017

  note:  both sexes liable for military service (2001 est.)

Burundi:
  males age 15-49:  1,394,273 (2001 est.)

Cambodia:
  males age 15-49:  2,877,137 (2001 est.)

Cameroon:
  males age 15-49:  3,762,369 (2001 est.)

Canada:
  males age 15-49:  8,325,084 (2001 est.)

Cape Verde:
  males age 15-49:  89,543 (2001 est.)

Central African Republic:
  males age 15-49:  824,139 (2001 est.)

Chad:
  males age 15-49:  1,814,578 (2001 est.)

Chile:
  males age 15-49:  4,057,466 (2001 est.)

China:
  males age 15-49:  366,306,353 (2001 est.)

Colombia:
  males age 15-49:  10,779,148 (2001 est.)

Comoros:
  males age 15-49:  141,120 (2001 est.)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  males age 15-49:  11,615,554
  (2001 est.)

Congo, Republic of the:
  males age 15-49:  684,922 (2001 est.)

Costa Rica:
  males age 15-49:  1,035,090 (2001 est.)

Cote d'Ivoire:
  males age 15-49:  3,851,432 (2001 est.)

Croatia:
  males age 15-49:  1,085,877 (2001 est.)

Cuba:
  males age 15-49:  3,090,633

  females age 15-49:  3,029,274 (2001 est.)

Cyprus:
  males age 15-49:  198,275 (2001 est.)

Czech Republic:
  males age 15-49:  2,653,456 (2001 est.)

Denmark:
  males age 15-49:  1,292,619 (2001 est.)

Djibouti:
  males age 15-49:  108,038 (2001 est.)

Dominican Republic:
  males age 15-49:  2,281,035 (2001 est.)

Ecuador:
  males age 15-49:  3,382,567 (2001 est.)

Egypt:
  males age 15-49:  18,562,994 (2001 est.)

El Salvador:
  males age 15-49:  1,464,898 (2001 est.)

Equatorial Guinea:
  males age 15-49:  108,973 (2001 est.)

Estonia:
  males age 15-49:  359,677 (2001 est.)

Ethiopia:
  males age 15-49:  14,537,884 (2001 est.)

Fiji:
  males age 15-49:  227,599 (2001 est.)

Finland:
  males age 15-49:  1,251,700 (2001 est.)

France:
  males age 15-49:  14,573,199 (2001 est.)

French Guiana:
  males age 15-49:  49,495 (2001 est.)

Gabon:
  males age 15-49:  281,218 (2001 est.)

Gambia, The:
  males age 15-49:  316,873 (2001 est.)

Georgia:
  males age 15-49:  1,296,199 (2001 est.)

Germany:
  males age 15-49:  20,851,022 (2001 est.)

Ghana:
  males age 15-49:  4,890,483 (2001 est.)

Greece:
  males age 15-49:  2,673,539 (2001 est.)

Guatemala:
  males age 15-49:  3,092,050 (2001 est.)

Guinea:
  males age 15-49:  1,764,912 (2001 est.)

Guinea-Bissau:
  males age 15-49:  305,071 (2001 est.)

Guyana:
  males age 15-49:  204,938 (2001 est.)

Haiti:
  males age 15-49:  1,635,253 (2001 est.)

Honduras:
  males age 15-49:  1,515,101 (2001 est.)

Hong Kong:
  males age 15-49:  2,020,937 (2001 est.)

Hungary:
  males age 15-49:  2,573,119 (2001 est.)

Iceland:
  males age 15-49:  71,241 (2001 est.)

India:
  males age 15-49:  280,204,502 (2001 est.)

Indonesia:
  males age 15-49:  64,046,049 (2001 est.)

Iran:
  males age 15-49:  18,319,328 (2001 est.)

Iraq:
  males age 15-49:  5,902,215 (2001 est.)

Ireland:
  males age 15-49:  1,004,469 (2001 est.)

Israel:
  males age 15-49:  1,522,003

  females age 15-49:  1,482,027 (2001 est.)

Italy:
  males age 15-49:  14,248,674 (2001 est.)

Jamaica:
  males age 15-49:  736,627 (2001 est.)

Japan:
  males age 15-49:  29,926,614 (2001 est.)

Jordan:
  males age 15-49:  1,458,571 (2001 est.)

Kazakhstan:
  males age 15-49:  4,509,179 (2001 est.)

Kenya:
  males age 15-49:  7,712,402 (2001 est.)

Korea, North:
  males age 15-49:  5,943,735 (2001 est.)

Korea, South:
  males age 15-49:  14,148,552 (2001 est.)

Kuwait:
  males age 15-49:  780,559 (2001 est.)

Kyrgyzstan:
  males age 15-49:  1,203,001 (2001 est.)

Laos:
  males age 15-49:  1,319,537 (2001 est.)

Latvia:
  males age 15-49:  590,784 (2001 est.)

Lebanon:
  males age 15-49:  980,412 (2001 est.)

Lesotho:
  males age 15-49:  515,464 (2001 est.)

Liberia:
  males age 15-49:  715,753 (2001 est.)

Libya:
  males age 15-49:  1,459,400 (2001 est.)

Lithuania:
  males age 15-49:  929,389 (2001 est.)

Luxembourg:
  males age 15-49:  112,714 (2001 est.)

Macau:
  males age 15-49:  125,737 (2001 est.)

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  males age 15-49:
  548,183 (2001 est.)

Madagascar:
  males age 15-49:  3,640,554 (2001 est.)

Malawi:
  males age 15-49:  2,466,708 (2001 est.)

Malaysia:
  males age 15-49:  5,800,456 (2001 est.)

Maldives:
  males age 15-49:  71,856 (2001 est.)

Mali:
  males age 15-49:  2,284,632 (2001 est.)

Malta:
  males age 15-49:  98,953 (2001 est.)

Mauritania:
  males age 15-49:  624,375 (2001 est.)

Mauritius:
  males age 15-49:  339,473 (2001 est.)

Mexico:
  males age 15-49:  26,703,300 (2001 est.)

Moldova:
  males age 15-49:  1,164,018 (2001 est.)

Mongolia:
  males age 15-49:  748,779 (2001 est.)

Morocco:
  males age 15-49:  8,182,073 (2001 est.)

Mozambique:
  males age 15-49:  4,627,052 (2001 est.)

Namibia:
  males age 15-49:  427,067 (2001 est.)

Nauru:
  males age 15-49:  3,018 (2001 est.)

Nepal:
  males age 15-49:  6,295,990 (2001 est.)

Netherlands:
  males age 15-49:  4,083,349 (2001 est.)

Netherlands Antilles:
  males age 15-49:  54,284 (2001 est.)

New Zealand:
  males age 15-49:  1,000,102 (2001 est.)

Nicaragua:
  males age 15-49:  1,269,322 (2001 est.)

Niger:
  males age 15-49:  2,202,608 (2001 est.)

Nigeria:
  males age 15-49:  29,940,922 (2001 est.)

Norway:
  males age 15-49:  1,101,384 (2001 est.)

Oman:
  males age 15-49:  771,919 (2001 est.)

Pakistan:
  males age 15-49:  35,770,928 (2001 est.)

Panama:
  males age 15-49:  775,966 (2001 est.)

Papua New Guinea:
  males age 15-49:  1,306,159 (2001 est.)

Paraguay:
  males age 15-49:  1,388,436 (2001 est.)

Peru:
  males age 15-49:  7,205,675 (2001 est.)

Philippines:
  males age 15-49:  21,220,191 (2001 est.)

Poland:
  males age 15-49:  10,447,931 (2001 est.)

Portugal:
  males age 15-49:  2,530,466 (2001 est.)

Qatar:
  males age 15-49:  312,116

  note:  includes non-nationals (2001 est.)

Reunion:
  males age 15-49:  190,846 (2001 est.)

Romania:
  males age 15-49:  5,899,536 (2001 est.)

Russia:
  males age 15-49:  38,866,147 (2001 est.)

Rwanda:
  males age 15-49:  1,815,633 (2001 est.)

Sao Tome and Principe:
  males age 15-49:  34,205 (2001 est.)

Saudi Arabia:
  males age 15-49:  5,894,691 (2001 est.)

Senegal:
  males age 15-49:  2,311,063 (2001 est.)

Seychelles:
  males age 15-49:  22,951 (2001 est.)

Sierra Leone:
  males age 15-49:  1,161,790 (2001 est.)

Singapore:
  males age 15-49:  1,316,815 (2001 est.)

Slovakia:
  males age 15-49:  1,487,093 (2001 est.)

Slovenia:
  males age 15-49:  523,336 (2001 est.)

Somalia:
  males age 15-49:  1,825,302 (2001 est.)

South Africa:
  males age 15-49:  11,469,812 (2001 est.)

Spain:
  males age 15-49:  10,551,945 (2001 est.)

Sri Lanka:
  males age 15-49:  5,304,323 (2001 est.)

Sudan:
  males age 15-49:  8,436,732 (2001 est.)

Suriname:
  males age 15-49:  121,656 (2001 est.)

Swaziland:
  males age 15-49:  248,084 (2001 est.)

Sweden:
  males age 15-49:  2,062,566 (2001 est.)

Switzerland:
  males age 15-49:  1,849,034 (2001 est.)

Syria:
  males age 15-49:  4,384,528 (2001 est.)

Tajikistan:
  males age 15-49:  1,586,700 (2001 est.)

Tanzania:
  males age 15-49:  8,365,337 (2001 est.)

Thailand:
  males age 15-49:  17,717,268 (2001 est.)

Togo:
  males age 15-49:  1,175,528 (2001 est.)

Trinidad and Tobago:
  males age 15-49:  346,043 (2001 est.)

Tunisia:
  males age 15-49:  2,739,566 (2001 est.)

Turkey:
  males age 15-49:  18,882,272 (2001 est.)

Turkmenistan:
  males age 15-49:  1,173,500 (2001 est.)

Uganda:
  males age 15-49:  5,118,755 (2001 est.)

Ukraine:
  males age 15-49:  12,285,623 (2001 est.)

United Arab Emirates:
  males age 15-49:  778,842

  note:  includes non-nationals (2001 est.)

United Kingdom:
  males age 15-49:  14,599,199 (2001 est.)

United States:
  males age 15-49:  70,819,436 (2001 est.)

Uruguay:
  males age 15-49:  817,535 (2001 est.)

Uzbekistan:
  males age 15-49:  6,550,587 (2001 est.)

Venezuela:
  males age 15-49:  6,524,809 (2001 est.)

Vietnam:
  males age 15-49:  21,704,588 (2001 est.)

Yemen:
  males age 15-49:  4,103,093 (2001 est.)

Yugoslavia:
  males age 15-49:  2,600,362 (2001 est.)

Zambia:
  males age 15-49:  2,246,640 (2001 est.)

Zimbabwe:
  males age 15-49:  2,996,631 (2001 est.)

Taiwan:
  males age 15-49:  6,575,689 (2001 est.)

======================================================================

@Military manpower - fit for military




  Military manpower - fit for military service

Country profile category: Military

  A  B  C  D  E  F  G  H  I  J  K  L  M  N  O  P  Q  R  S  T  U  V  Y
  Z


Afghanistan:
  males age 15-49:  3,561,957 (2001 est.)

Albania:
  males age 15-49:  712,763 (2001 est.)

Algeria:
  males age 15-49:  5,383,770 (2001 est.)

Angola:
  males age 15-49:  1,246,224 (2001 est.)

Argentina:
  males age 15-49:  7,625,425 (2001 est.)

Armenia:
  males age 15-49:  715,734 (2001 est.)

Australia:
  males age 15-49:  4,303,966 (2001 est.)

Austria:
  males age 15-49:  1,731,383 (2001 est.)

Azerbaijan:
  males age 15-49:  1,684,673 (2001 est.)

Bahrain:
  males age 15-49:  121,833 (2001 est.)

Bangladesh:
  males age 15-49:  21,362,279 (2001 est.)

Barbados:
  males age 15-49:  53,576 (2001 est.)

Belarus:
  males age 15-49:  2,138,743 (2001 est.)

Belgium:
  males age 15-49:  2,079,624 (2001 est.)

Belize:
  males age 15-49:  37,174 (2001 est.)

Benin:
  males age 15-49:  743,980

  females age 15-49:  755,149 (2001 est.)

Bhutan:
  males age 15-49:  269,251 (2001 est.)

Bolivia:
  males age 15-49:  1,306,452 (2001 est.)

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  males age 15-49:  895,780 (2001 est.)

Botswana:
  males age 15-49:  199,995 (2001 est.)

Brazil:
  males age 15-49:  32,388,786 (2001 est.)

Brunei:
  males age 15-49:  61,640 (2001 est.)

Bulgaria:
  males age 15-49:  1,581,697 (2001 est.)

Burkina Faso:
  males age 15-49:  1,329,995 (2001 est.)

Burma:
  males age 15-49:  6,425,514

  females age 15-49:  6,419,677 (2001 est.)

Burundi:
  males age 15-49:  728,326 (2001 est.)

Cambodia:
  males age 15-49:  1,610,761 (2001 est.)

Cameroon:
  males age 15-49:  1,903,149 (2001 est.)

Canada:
  males age 15-49:  7,114,851 (2001 est.)

Cape Verde:
  males age 15-49:  50,615 (2001 est.)

Central African Republic:
  males age 15-49:  430,922 (2001 est.)

Chad:
  males age 15-49:  949,997 (2001 est.)

Chile:
  males age 15-49:  3,003,134 (2001 est.)

China:
  males age 15-49:  200,886,946 (2001 est.)

Colombia:
  males age 15-49:  7,205,211 (2001 est.)

Comoros:
  males age 15-49:  83,920 (2001 est.)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  males age 15-49:  5,915,251 (2001
  est.)

Congo, Republic of the:
  males age 15-49:  347,946 (2001 est.)

Costa Rica:
  males age 15-49:  692,973 (2001 est.)

Cote d'Ivoire:
  males age 15-49:  2,010,862 (2001 est.)

Croatia:
  males age 15-49:  859,621 (2001 est.)

Cuba:
  males age 15-49:  1,911,160

  females age 15-49:  1,867,958 (2001 est.)

Cyprus:
  males age 15-49:  136,147 (2001 est.)

Czech Republic:
  males age 15-49:  2,024,070 (2001 est.)

Denmark:
  males age 15-49:  1,106,094 (2001 est.)

Djibouti:
  males age 15-49:  63,589 (2001 est.)

Dominican Republic:
  males age 15-49:  1,430,776 (2001 est.)

Ecuador:
  males age 15-49:  2,280,899 (2001 est.)

Egypt:
  males age 15-49:  12,020,059 (2001 est.)

El Salvador:
  males age 15-49:  929,263 (2001 est.)

Equatorial Guinea:
  males age 15-49:  55,347 (2001 est.)

Estonia:
  males age 15-49:  282,418 (2001 est.)

Ethiopia:
  males age 15-49:  7,581,815 (2001 est.)

Fiji:
  males age 15-49:  125,238 (2001 est.)

Finland:
  males age 15-49:  1,033,188 (2001 est.)

France:
  males age 15-49:  12,127,793 (2001 est.)

French Guiana:
  males age 15-49:  32,052 (2001 est.)

Gabon:
  males age 15-49:  145,062 (2001 est.)

Gambia, The:
  males age 15-49:  159,764 (2001 est.)

Georgia:
  males age 15-49:  1,024,574 (2001 est.)

Germany:
  males age 15-49:  17,760,412 (2001 est.)

Ghana:
  males age 15-49:  2,713,584 (2001 est.)

Greece:
  males age 15-49:  2,040,227 (2001 est.)

Guatemala:
  males age 15-49:  2,018,636 (2001 est.)

Guinea:
  males age 15-49:  891,166 (2001 est.)

Guinea-Bissau:
  males age 15-49:  173,703 (2001 est.)

Guyana:
  males age 15-49:  154,259 (2001 est.)

Haiti:
  males age 15-49:  888,305 (2001 est.)

Honduras:
  males age 15-49:  902,220 (2001 est.)

Hong Kong:
  males age 15-49:  1,520,531 (2001 est.)

Hungary:
  males age 15-49:  2,050,404 (2001 est.)

Iceland:
  males age 15-49:  62,704 (2001 est.)

India:
  males age 15-49:  164,410,461 (2001 est.)

Indonesia:
  males age 15-49:  37,418,755 (2001 est.)

Iran:
  males age 15-49:  10,872,407 (2001 est.)

Iraq:
  males age 15-49:  3,301,880 (2001 est.)

Ireland:
  males age 15-49:  809,808 (2001 est.)

Israel:
  males age 15-49:  1,245,757

  females age 15-49:  1,208,973 (2001 est.)

Italy:
  males age 15-49:  12,244,166 (2001 est.)

Jamaica:
  males age 15-49:  517,077 (2001 est.)

Japan:
  males age 15-49:  25,876,484 (2001 est.)

Jordan:
  males age 15-49:  1,034,109 (2001 est.)

Kazakhstan:
  males age 15-49:  3,598,859 (2001 est.)

Kenya:
  males age 15-49:  4,774,889 (2001 est.)

Korea, North:
  males age 15-49:  3,574,050 (2001 est.)

Korea, South:
  males age 15-49:  8,979,778 (2001 est.)

Kuwait:
  males age 15-49:  466,521 (2001 est.)

Kyrgyzstan:
  males age 15-49:  975,744 (2001 est.)

Laos:
  males age 15-49:  710,627 (2001 est.)

Latvia:
  males age 15-49:  463,944 (2001 est.)

Lebanon:
  males age 15-49:  605,332 (2001 est.)

Lesotho:
  males age 15-49:  277,369 (2001 est.)

Liberia:
  males age 15-49:  385,460 (2001 est.)

Libya:
  males age 15-49:  866,012 (2001 est.)

Lithuania:
  males age 15-49:  730,363 (2001 est.)

Luxembourg:
  males age 15-49:  92,817 (2001 est.)

Macau:
  males age 15-49:  69,191 (2001 est.)

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  males age 15-49:
  442,053 (2001 est.)

Madagascar:
  males age 15-49:  2,159,767 (2001 est.)

Malawi:
  males age 15-49:  1,265,893 (2001 est.)

Malaysia:
  males age 15-49:  3,514,023 (2001 est.)

Maldives:
  males age 15-49:  40,006 (2001 est.)

Mali:
  males age 15-49:  1,309,612 (2001 est.)

Malta:
  males age 15-49:  78,783 (2001 est.)

Mauritania:
  males age 15-49:  302,699 (2001 est.)

Mauritius:
  males age 15-49:  171,206 (2001 est.)

Mexico:
  males age 15-49:  19,394,184 (2001 est.)

Moldova:
  males age 15-49:  921,210 (2001 est.)

Mongolia:
  males age 15-49:  486,491 (2001 est.)

Morocco:
  males age 15-49:  5,160,374 (2001 est.)

Mozambique:
  males age 15-49:  2,670,933 (2001 est.)

Namibia:
  males age 15-49:  255,016 (2001 est.)

Nauru:
  males age 15-49:  1,661 (2001 est.)

Nepal:
  males age 15-49:  3,272,077 (2001 est.)

Netherlands:
  males age 15-49:  3,555,501 (2001 est.)

Netherlands Antilles:
  males age 15-49:  30,405 (2001 est.)

New Zealand:
  males age 15-49:  841,915 (2001 est.)

Nicaragua:
  males age 15-49:  779,267 (2001 est.)

Niger:
  males age 15-49:  1,190,787 (2001 est.)

Nigeria:
  males age 15-49:  17,201,367 (2001 est.)

Norway:
  males age 15-49:  913,534 (2001 est.)

Oman:
  males age 15-49:  429,811 (2001 est.)

Pakistan:
  males age 15-49:  21,897,366 (2001 est.)

Panama:
  males age 15-49:  530,916 (2001 est.)

Papua New Guinea:
  males age 15-49:  723,012 (2001 est.)

Paraguay:
  males age 15-49:  1,001,516 (2001 est.)

Peru:
  males age 15-49:  4,847,250 (2001 est.)

Philippines:
  males age 15-49:  14,942,363 (2001 est.)

Poland:
  males age 15-49:  8,139,245 (2001 est.)

Portugal:
  males age 15-49:  2,030,759 (2001 est.)

Qatar:
  males age 15-49:  163,642 (2001 est.)

Reunion:
  males age 15-49:  97,497 (2001 est.)

Romania:
  males age 15-49:  4,962,807 (2001 est.)

Russia:
  males age 15-49:  30,337,743 (2001 est.)

Rwanda:
  males age 15-49:  924,544 (2001 est.)

Sao Tome and Principe:
  males age 15-49:  18,043 (2001 est.)

Saudi Arabia:
  males age 15-49:  3,291,185 (2001 est.)

Senegal:
  males age 15-49:  1,207,360 (2001 est.)

Seychelles:
  males age 15-49:  11,452 (2001 est.)

Sierra Leone:
  males age 15-49:  563,631 (2001 est.)

Singapore:
  males age 15-49:  959,636 (2001 est.)

Slovakia:
  males age 15-49:  1,136,811 (2001 est.)

Slovenia:
  males age 15-49:  416,237 (2001 est.)

Somalia:
  males age 15-49:  1,011,400 (2001 est.)

South Africa:
  males age 15-49:  6,977,328 (2001 est.)

Spain:
  males age 15-49:  8,448,150 (2001 est.)

Sri Lanka:
  males age 15-49:  4,119,511 (2001 est.)

Sudan:
  males age 15-49:  5,194,862 (2001 est.)

Suriname:
  males age 15-49:  71,344 (2001 est.)

Swaziland:
  males age 15-49:  143,618 (2001 est.)

Sweden:
  males age 15-49:  1,803,995 (2001 est.)

Switzerland:
  males age 15-49:  1,570,918 (2001 est.)

Syria:
  males age 15-49:  2,448,630 (2001 est.)

Tajikistan:
  males age 15-49:  1,300,252 (2001 est.)

Tanzania:
  males age 15-49:  4,841,095 (2001 est.)

Thailand:
  males age 15-49:  10,646,818 (2001 est.)

Togo:
  males age 15-49:  616,622 (2001 est.)

Trinidad and Tobago:
  males age 15-49:  247,297 (2001 est.)

Tunisia:
  males age 15-49:  1,561,484 (2001 est.)

Turkey:
  males age 15-49:  11,432,438 (2001 est.)

Turkmenistan:
  males age 15-49:  952,218 (2001 est.)

Uganda:
  males age 15-49:  2,778,457 (2001 est.)

Ukraine:
  males age 15-49:  9,630,184 (2001 est.)

United Arab Emirates:
  males age 15-49:  420,484 (2001 est.)

United Kingdom:
  males age 15-49:  12,139,930 (2001 est.)

United States:
  NA

Uruguay:
  males age 15-49:  661,777 (2001 est.)

Uzbekistan:
  males age 15-49:  5,318,418 (2001 est.)

Venezuela:
  males age 15-49:  4,701,062 (2001 est.)

Vietnam:
  males age 15-49:  13,673,438 (2001 est.)

Yemen:
  males age 15-49:  2,303,257 (2001 est.)

Yugoslavia:
  males age 15-49:  2,088,595 (2001 est.)

Zambia:
  males age 15-49:  1,193,047 (2001 est.)

Zimbabwe:
  males age 15-49:  1,860,167 (2001 est.)

Taiwan:
  males age 15-49:  5,025,856 (2001 est.)

======================================================================

@Military manpower - military age



Afghanistan:
  22 years of age

Albania:
  19 years of age

Algeria:
  19 years of age

Angola:
  18 years of age

Argentina:
  20 years of age

Armenia:
  18 years of age

Australia:
  17 years of age

Austria:
  19 years of age

Azerbaijan:
  18 years of age

Bahrain:
  15 years of age

Belarus:
  18 years of age

Belgium:
  19 years of age

Belize:
  18 years of age

Benin:
  18 years of age

Bhutan:
  18 years of age

Bolivia:
  19 years of age

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  19 years of age

Botswana:
  18 years of age

Brazil:
  18 years of age

Brunei:
  18 years of age

Bulgaria:
  19 years of age

Burma:
  18 years of age

Burundi:
  16 years of age

Cambodia:
  18 years of age

Cameroon:
  18 years of age

Canada:
  17 years of age

Chad:
  20 years of age

Chile:
  19 years of age

China:
  18 years of age

Colombia:
  18 years of age

Congo, Republic of the:
  20 years of age

Costa Rica:
  18 years of age

Cote d'Ivoire:
  18 years of age

Croatia:
  19 years of age

Cuba:
  17 years of age

Cyprus:
  18 years of age

Czech Republic:
  18 years of age

Denmark:
  18 years of age

Dominican Republic:
  18 years of age

Ecuador:
  20 years of age

Egypt:
  20 years of age

El Salvador:
  18 years of age

Estonia:
  18 years of age

Ethiopia:
  18 years of age

Fiji:
  18 years of age

Finland:
  17 years of age

France:
  18 years of age

Gabon:
  20 years of age

Georgia:
  18 years of age

Germany:
  18 years of age

Ghana:
  18 years of age

Greece:
  21 years of age

Guatemala:
  18 years of age

Haiti:
  18 years of age

Honduras:
  18 years of age

Hong Kong:
  18 years of age

Hungary:
  18 years of age

India:
  17 years of age

Indonesia:
  18 years of age

Iran:
  21 years of age

Iraq:
  18 years of age

Ireland:
  17 years of age

Israel:
  18 years of age

Italy:
  18 years of age

Jamaica:
  18 years of age

Japan:
  18 years of age

Jordan:
  18 years of age

Kazakhstan:
  18 years of age

Korea, North:
  18 years of age

Korea, South:
  18 years of age

Kuwait:
  18 years of age

Kyrgyzstan:
  18 years of age

Laos:
  18 years of age

Latvia:
  18 years of age

Libya:
  17 years of age

Lithuania:
  18 years of age

Luxembourg:
  19 years of age

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  19 years of age

Madagascar:
  20 years of age

Malaysia:
  21 years of age

Mexico:
  18 years of age

  note:  starting in 2000, females will be allowed to volunteer for
  military service

Moldova:
  18 years of age

Mongolia:
  18 years of age

Morocco:
  18 years of age

Nepal:
  17 years of age

Netherlands:
  20 years of age

Netherlands Antilles:
  20 years of age

New Zealand:
  20 years of age

Nicaragua:
  18 years of age

Niger:
  18 years of age

Nigeria:
  18 years of age

Norway:
  20 years of age

Oman:
  14 years of age

Pakistan:
  17 years of age

Paraguay:
  17 years of age

Peru:
  20 years of age

Philippines:
  20 years of age

Poland:
  19 years of age

Portugal:
  20 years of age

Qatar:
  18 years of age

Reunion:
  18 years of age

Romania:
  20 years of age

Russia:
  18 years of age

Saudi Arabia:
  17 years of age

Senegal:
  18 years of age

Slovakia:
  18 years of age

Slovenia:
  19 years of age

South Africa:
  18 years of age

Spain:
  20 years of age

Sri Lanka:
  18 years of age

Sudan:
  18 years of age

Sweden:
  19 years of age

Switzerland:
  20 years of age

Syria:
  19 years of age

Tajikistan:
  18 years of age

Thailand:
  18 years of age

Tunisia:
  20 years of age

Turkey:
  20 years of age

Turkmenistan:
  18 years of age

Ukraine:
  18 years of age

United Arab Emirates:
  18 years of age

United States:
  18 years of age

Uzbekistan:
  18 years of age

Venezuela:
  18 years of age

Vietnam:
  17 years of age

Yemen:
  14 years of age

Yugoslavia:
  19 years of age

Taiwan:
  19 years of age

======================================================================

@Military manpower - reaching military




  Military manpower - reaching military age annually

Country profile category: Military

  A  B  C  D  E  F  G  H  I  J  K  L  M  N  O  P  Q  R  S  T  U  V  Y


Afghanistan:
  males:  252,869 (2001 est.)

Albania:
  males:  35,792 (2001 est.)

Algeria:
  males:  388,939 (2001 est.)

Angola:
  males:  103,807 (2001 est.)

Argentina:
  males:  335,085 (2001 est.)

Armenia:
  males:  34,998 (2001 est.)

Australia:
  males:  138,971 (2001 est.)

Austria:
  males:  50,580 (2001 est.)

Azerbaijan:
  males:  77,099 (2001 est.)

Bahrain:
  males:  5,926 (2001 est.)

Belarus:
  males:  86,396 (2001 est.)

Belgium:
  males:  63,247 (2001 est.)

Belize:
  males:  2,847 (2001 est.)

Benin:
  males:  70,088

  females:  73,618 (2001 est.)

Bhutan:
  males:  21,167 (2001 est.)

Bolivia:
  males:  90,120 (2001 est.)

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  males:  29,757 (2001 est.)

Botswana:
  males:  19,479 (2001 est.)

Brazil:
  males:  1,762,740 (2001 est.)

Brunei:
  males:  3,005 (2001 est.)

Bulgaria:
  males:  56,104 (2001 est.)

Burma:
  males:  470,667

  females:  479,691 (2001 est.)

Burundi:
  males:  79,360 (2001 est.)

Cambodia:
  males:  162,643 (2001 est.)

Cameroon:
  males:  174,308 (2001 est.)

Canada:
  males:  215,627 (2001 est.)

Chad:
  males:  82,003 (2001 est.)

Chile:
  males:  136,830 (2001 est.)

China:
  males:  10,089,458 (2001 est.)

Colombia:
  males:  379,295 (2001 est.)

Congo, Republic of the:
  males:  32,350 (2001 est.)

Costa Rica:
  males:  39,411 (2001 est.)

Cote d'Ivoire:
  males:  188,411 (2001 est.)

Croatia:
  males:  30,037 (2001 est.)

Cuba:
  males:  79,562

  females:  85,650 (2001 est.)

Cyprus:
  males:  6,616 (2001 est.)

Czech Republic:
  males:  69,393 (2001 est.)

Denmark:
  males:  29,212 (2001 est.)

Dominican Republic:
  males:  87,404 (2001 est.)

Ecuador:
  males:  132,978 (2001 est.)

Egypt:
  males:  712,983 (2001 est.)

El Salvador:
  males:  68,103 (2001 est.)

Estonia:
  males:  11,164 (2001 est.)

Ethiopia:
  males:  703,625 (2001 est.)

Fiji:
  males:  9,471 (2001 est.)

Finland:
  males:  33,883 (2001 est.)

France:
  males:  390,064 (2001 est.)

Gabon:
  males:  11,304 (2001 est.)

Georgia:
  males:  41,561 (2001 est.)

Germany:
  males:  482,318 (2001 est.)

Ghana:
  males:  213,237 (2001 est.)

Greece:
  males:  77,976 (2001 est.)

Guatemala:
  males:  140,358 (2001 est.)

Haiti:
  males:  87,049 (2001 est.)

Honduras:
  males:  72,335 (2001 est.)

Hong Kong:
  males:  47,139 (2001 est.)

Hungary:
  males:  64,121 (2001 est.)

India:
  males:  10,879,384 (2001 est.)

Indonesia:
  males:  2,263,706 (2001 est.)

Iran:
  males:  823,040 (2001 est.)

Iraq:
  males:  274,035 (2001 est.)

Ireland:
  males:  32,287 (2001 est.)

Israel:
  males:  49,206

  females:  53,379 (2001 est.)

Italy:
  males:  304,369 (2001 est.)

Jamaica:
  males:  27,729 (2001 est.)

Japan:
  males:  765,817 (2001 est.)

Jordan:
  males:  57,131 (2001 est.)

Kazakhstan:
  males:  163,628 (2001 est.)

Korea, North:
  males:  179,136 (2001 est.)

Korea, South:
  males:  394,397 (2001 est.)

Kuwait:
  males:  18,309 (2001 est.)

Kyrgyzstan:
  males:  50,590 (2001 est.)

Laos:
  males:  64,437 (2001 est.)

Latvia:
  males:  19,114 (2001 est.)

Libya:
  males:  61,694 (2001 est.)

Lithuania:
  males:  28,506 (2001 est.)

Luxembourg:
  males:  2,565 (2001 est.)

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  males:  17,905 (2001
  est.)

Madagascar:
  males:  153,856 (2001 est.)

Malaysia:
  males:  196,042 (2001 est.)

Mexico:
  males:  1,077,536 (2001 est.)

Moldova:
  males:  42,268 (2001 est.)

Mongolia:
  males:  30,230 (2001 est.)

Morocco:
  males:  348,380 (2001 est.)

Nepal:
  males:  292,589 (2001 est.)

Netherlands:
  males:  96,082 (2001 est.)

Netherlands Antilles:
  males:  1,610 (2001 est.)

New Zealand:
  males:  26,480 (2001 est.)

Nicaragua:
  males:  58,232 (2001 est.)

Niger:
  males:  108,993 (2001 est.)

Nigeria:
  males:  1,375,112 (2001 est.)

Norway:
  males:  27,341 (2001 est.)

Oman:
  males:  26,469 (2001 est.)

Pakistan:
  males:  1,657,723 (2001 est.)

Paraguay:
  males:  58,359 (2001 est.)

Peru:
  males:  276,458 (2001 est.)

Philippines:
  males:  848,181 (2001 est.)

Poland:
  males:  344,781 (2001 est.)

Portugal:
  males:  71,404 (2001 est.)

Qatar:
  males:  6,797 (2001 est.)

Reunion:
  males:  6,243 (2001 est.)

Romania:
  males:  179,951 (2001 est.)

Russia:
  males:  1,242,778 (2001 est.)

Saudi Arabia:
  males:  233,402 (2001 est.)

Senegal:
  males:  114,189 (2001 est.)

Slovakia:
  males:  45,502 (2001 est.)

Slovenia:
  males:  14,513 (2001 est.)

South Africa:
  males:  466,399 (2001 est.)

Spain:
  males:  281,043 (2001 est.)

Sri Lanka:
  males:  193,522 (2001 est.)

Sudan:
  males:  398,294 (2001 est.)

Sweden:
  males:  51,506 (2001 est.)

Switzerland:
  males:  42,597 (2001 est.)

Syria:
  males:  200,859 (2001 est.)

Tajikistan:
  males:  72,056 (2001 est.)

Thailand:
  males:  567,659 (2001 est.)

Tunisia:
  males:  105,146 (2001 est.)

Turkey:
  males:  674,805 (2001 est.)

Turkmenistan:
  males:  48,292 (2001 est.)

Ukraine:
  males:  390,823 (2001 est.)

United Arab Emirates:
  males:  25,482 (2001 est.)

United States:
  males:  2,039,414 (2001 est.)

Uzbekistan:
  males:  274,602 (2001 est.)

Venezuela:
  males:  246,185 (2001 est.)

Vietnam:
  males:  961,124 (2001 est.)

Yemen:
  males:  238,690 (2001 est.)

Yugoslavia:
  males:  82,542 (2001 est.)

Taiwan:
  males:  198,766 (2001 est.)

======================================================================

@National holiday



Afghanistan:
  Independence Day, 19 August (1919)

Albania:
  Independence Day, 28 November (1912)

Algeria:
  Revolution Day, 1 November (1954)

American Samoa:
  Flag Day, 17 April (1900)

Andorra:
  Our Lady of Meritxell Day, 8 September (1278)

Angola:
  Independence Day, 11 November (1975)

Anguilla:
  Anguilla Day, 30 May

Antigua and Barbuda:
  Independence Day, 1 November (1981)

Argentina:
  Revolution Day, 25 May (1810)

Armenia:
  Independence Day, 21 September (1991)

Aruba:
  Flag Day, 18 March

Australia:
  Australia Day, 26 January (1788)

Austria:
  National Day, 26 October (1955); note - commemorates the
  passage of the law on permanent neutrality

Azerbaijan:
  Founding of the Democratic Republic of Azerbaidzhan, 28
  May (1918)

Bahamas, The:
  Independence Day, 10 July (1973)

Bahrain:
  National Day, 16 December (1971); note - 15 August 1971 is
  the date of independence from the UK, 16 December 1971 is the date
  of independence from British protection

Bangladesh:
  Independence Day, 26 March (1971); note - 26 March 1971
  is the date of independence from West Pakistan, 16 December 1971 is
  Victory Day and commemorates the official creation of the state of
  Bangladesh

Barbados:
  Independence Day, 30 November (1966)

Belarus:
  Independence Day, 3 July (1944); note - 3 July 1944 was the
  date Minsk was liberated from German troops, 25 August 1991 was the
  date of independence from the Soviet Union

Belgium:
  Independence Day, 21 July (1831)

Belize:
  Independence Day, 21 September (1981)

Benin:
  National Day, 1 August (1960)

Bermuda:
  Bermuda Day, 24 May

Bhutan:
  National Day (Ugyen WANGCHUCK became first hereditary king),
  17 December (1907)

Bolivia:
  Independence Day, 6 August (1825)

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  National Day, 25 November (1943)

Botswana:
  Independence Day, 30 September (1966)

Brazil:
  Independence Day, 7 September (1822)

British Virgin Islands:
  Territory Day, 1 July

Brunei:
  National Day, 23 February (1984); note - 1 January 1984 was
  the date of independence from the UK, 23 February 1984 was the date
  of independence from British protection

Bulgaria:
  Liberation Day, 3 March (1878)

Burkina Faso:
  Republic Day, 11 December (1958)

Burma:
  Independence Day, 4 January (1948)

Burundi:
  Independence Day, 1 July (1962)

Cambodia:
  Independence Day, 9 November (1953)

Cameroon:
  Republic Day, 20 May (1972)

Canada:
  Independence Day/Canada Day, 1 July (1867)

Cape Verde:
  Independence Day, 5 July (1975)

Cayman Islands:
  Constitution Day, first Monday in July

Central African Republic:
  Republic Day, 1 December (1958)

Chad:
  Independence Day, 11 August (1960)

Chile:
  Independence Day, 18 September (1810)

China:
  Founding of the People's Republic of China, 1 October (1949)

Christmas Island:
  NA

Cocos (Keeling) Islands:
  NA

Colombia:
  Independence Day, 20 July (1810)

Comoros:
  Independence Day, 6 July (1975)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  Independence Day, 30 June (1960)

Congo, Republic of the:
  Independence Day, 15 August (1960)

Cook Islands:
  Constitution Day, first Monday in August (1965)

Costa Rica:
  Independence Day, 15 September (1821)

Cote d'Ivoire:
  Independence Day, 7 August (1960)

Croatia:
  Republic Day/Statehood Day, 30 May (1990)

Cuba:
  Independence Day, 10 October (1868); note - 10 October 1868 is
  the date of independence from Spain, 20 May 1902 is the date of
  independence from US administration

Cyprus:
  Independence Day, 1 October (1960); note - Turkish Cypriot
  area celebrates 15 November (1983) as Independence Day

Czech Republic:
  Czech Founding Day, 28 October (1918)

Denmark:
  none designated; Constitution Day, 5 June is generally
  viewed as the National Day

Djibouti:
  Independence Day, 27 June (1977)

Dominica:
  Independence Day, 3 November (1978)

Dominican Republic:
  Independence Day, 27 February (1844)

Ecuador:
  Independence Day (independence of Quito), 10 August (1809)

Egypt:
  Revolution Day, 23 July (1952)

El Salvador:
  Independence Day, 15 September (1821)

Equatorial Guinea:
  Independence Day, 12 October (1968)

Eritrea:
  Independence Day, 24 May (1993)

Estonia:
  Independence Day, 24 February (1918); note - 24 February
  1918 was the date of independence from Soviet Russia, 6 September
  1991 was the date of independence from the Soviet Union

Ethiopia:
  National Day (defeat of MENGISTU regime), 28 May (1991)

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas):
  Liberation Day, 14 June (1982)

Faroe Islands:
  Olaifest, 29 July

Fiji:
  Independence Day, second Monday of October (1970)

Finland:
  Independence Day, 6 December (1917)

France:
  Bastille Day, 14 July (1789)

French Guiana:
  Bastille Day, 14 July (1789)

French Polynesia:
  Bastille Day, 14 July (1789)

Gabon:
  Founding of the Gabonese Democratic Party (PDG), 12 March
  (1968)

Gambia, The:
  Independence Day, 18 February (1965)

Georgia:
  Independence Day, 26 May (1918); note - 26 May 1918 is the
  date of independence from Soviet Russia, 9 April 1991 is the date of
  independence from the Soviet Union

Germany:
  Unity Day, 3 October (1990)

Ghana:
  Independence Day, 6 March (1957)

Gibraltar:
  Commonwealth Day, second Monday of March

Greece:
  Independence Day, 25 March (1821)

Greenland:
  June 21 (longest day)

Grenada:
  Independence Day, 7 February (1974)

Guadeloupe:
  Bastille Day, 14 July (1789)

Guam:
  Discovery Day, first Monday in March (1521)

Guatemala:
  Independence Day, 15 September (1821)

Guernsey:
  Liberation Day, 9 May (1945)

Guinea:
  Independence Day, 2 October (1958)

Guinea-Bissau:
  Independence Day, 24 September (1973)

Guyana:
  Republic Day, 23 February (1970)

Haiti:
  Independence Day, 1 January (1804)

Holy See (Vatican City):
  Coronation Day of Pope JOHN PAUL II, 22
  October (1978)

Honduras:
  Independence Day, 15 September (1821)

Hong Kong:
  National Day (Anniversary of the Founding of the People's
  Republic of China), 1 October (1949); note - 1 July 1997 is
  celebrated as Hong Kong Special Administrative Region Establishment
  Day

Hungary:
  St. Stephen's Day, 20 August

Iceland:
  Independence Day, 17 June (1944)

India:
  Republic Day, 26 January (1950)

Indonesia:
  Independence Day, 17 August (1945)

Iran:
  Republic Day, 1 April (1979)

Iraq:
  Revolution Day, 17 July (1968)

Ireland:
  Saint Patrick's Day, 17 March

Israel:
  Independence Day, 14 May (1948); note - Israel declared
  independence on 14 May 1948, but the Jewish calendar is lunar and
  the holiday may occur in April or May

Italy:
  Republic Day, 2 June (1946)

Jamaica:
  Independence Day, first Monday in August (1962)

Japan:
  Birthday of Emperor AKIHITO, 23 December (1933)

Jersey:
  Liberation Day, 9 May (1945)

Jordan:
  Independence Day, 25 May (1946)

Kazakhstan:
  Republic Day, 25 October (1990)

Kenya:
  Independence Day, 12 December (1963)

Kiribati:
  Independence Day, 12 July (1979)

Korea, North:
  Founding of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea
  (DPRK), 9 September (1948)

Korea, South:
  Liberation Day, 15 August (1945)

Kuwait:
  National Day, 25 February (1950)

Kyrgyzstan:
  Independence Day, 31 August (1991)

Laos:
  Republic Day, 2 December (1975)

Latvia:
  Independence Day, 18 November (1918); note - 18 November
  1918 is the date of independence from Soviet Russia, 18 November
  1991 is the date of independence from the Soviet Union

Lebanon:
  Independence Day, 22 November (1943)

Lesotho:
  Independence Day, 4 October (1966)

Liberia:
  Independence Day, 26 July (1847)

Libya:
  Revolution Day, 1 September (1969)

Liechtenstein:
  Assumption Day, 15 August

Lithuania:
  Independence Day, 16 February (1918); note - 16 February
  1918 is the date of independence from German, Austrian, Prussian,
  and Russian occupation, 11 March 1990 is the date of independence
  from the Soviet Union

Luxembourg:
  National Day (Birthday of Grand Duchess Charlotte) 23
  June

Macau:
  National Day (Anniversary of the Founding of the People's
  Republic of China), 1 October (1949); note - 20 December 1999 is
  celebrated as Macau Special Administrative Region Establishment Day

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  Uprising Day, 2 August
  (1903)

Madagascar:
  Independence Day, 26 June (1960)

Malawi:
  Independence Day, 6 July (1964)

Malaysia:
  Independence Day/Malaysia Day, 31 August (1957)

Maldives:
  Independence Day, 26 July (1965)

Mali:
  Independence Day, 22 September (1960)

Malta:
  Independence Day, 21 September (1964)

Man, Isle of:
  Tynwald Day, 5 July

Marshall Islands:
  Constitution Day, 1 May (1979)

Martinique:
  Bastille Day, 14 July (1789)

Mauritania:
  Independence Day, 28 November (1960)

Mauritius:
  Independence Day, 12 March (1968)

Mayotte:
  Bastille Day, 14 July (1789)

Mexico:
  Independence Day, 16 September (1810)

Micronesia, Federated States of:
  Constitution Day, 10 May (1979)

Moldova:
  Independence Day, 27 August (1991)

Monaco:
  National Day (Prince of Monaco Holiday), 19 November

Mongolia:
  Independence Day/Revolution Day, 11 July (1921)

Montserrat:
  Birthday of Queen ELIZABETH II, second Saturday in June
  (1926)

Morocco:
  Throne Day (accession of King MOHAMED VI to the throne), 30
  July (1999)

Mozambique:
  Independence Day, 25 June (1975)

Namibia:
  Independence Day, 21 March (1990)

Nauru:
  Independence Day, 31 January (1968)

Nepal:
  Birthday of King GYANENDRA, 7 July (1946)

Netherlands:
  Queen's Day (Birthday of Queen-Mother JULIANA in 1909
  and accession to the throne of her oldest daughter BEATRIX in 1980),
  30 April

Netherlands Antilles:
  Queen's Day (Birthday of Queen-Mother JULIANA
  in 1909 and accession to the throne of her oldest daughter BEATRIX
  in 1980), 30 April

New Caledonia:
  Bastille Day, 14 July (1789)

New Zealand:
  Waitangi Day (Treaty of Waitangi established British
  sovereignty over New Zealand), 6 February (1840)

Nicaragua:
  Independence Day, 15 September (1821)

Niger:
  Republic Day, 18 December (1958)

Nigeria:
  Independence Day, 1 October (1960)

Niue:
  Waitangi Day (Treaty of Waitangi established British
  sovereignty over New Zealand), 6 February (1840)

Norfolk Island:
  Pitcairners Arrival Day, 8 June (1856)

Northern Mariana Islands:
  Commonwealth Day, 8 January (1978)

Norway:
  Constitution Day, 17 May (1814); note - 17 May 1814 is the
  date of independence from Sweden, 7 June 1905 is the date Norway
  declared the union with Sweden was dissolved

Oman:
  Birthday of Sultan QABOOS, 18 November (1940)

Pakistan:
  Republic Day, 23 March (1956)

Palau:
  Constitution Day, 9 July (1979)

Panama:
  Independence Day, 3 November (1903)

Papua New Guinea:
  Independence Day, 16 September (1975)

Paraguay:
  Independence Day, 14 May (1811)

Peru:
  Independence Day, 28 July (1821)

Philippines:
  Independence Day (from Spain), 12 June (1898); note -
  12 June 1898 is the date of independence from Spain, 4 July 1946 is
  the date of independence from the US

Pitcairn Islands:
  Birthday of Queen ELIZABETH II, second Saturday in
  June (1926)

Poland:
  Constitution Day, 3 May (1791)

Portugal:
  Portugal Day, 10 June (1580)

Puerto Rico:
  US Independence Day, 4 July (1776)

Qatar:
  Independence Day, 3 September (1971)

Reunion:
  Bastille Day, 14 July (1789)

Romania:
  Unification Day (of Romania and Transylvania), 1 December
  (1918)

Russia:
  Russia Day, 12 June (1990)

Rwanda:
  Independence Day, 1 July (1962)

Saint Helena:
  Birthday of Queen ELIZABETH II, second Saturday in
  June (1926)

Saint Kitts and Nevis:
  Independence Day, 19 September (1983)

Saint Lucia:
  Independence Day, 22 February (1979)

Saint Pierre and Miquelon:
  Bastille Day, 14 July (1789)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:
  Independence Day, 27 October (1979)

Samoa:
  Independence Day Celebration, 1 June (1962); note - 1 January
  1962 is the date of independence from the New Zealand-administered
  UN trusteeship, 1 June 1962 is the date that independence is
  celebrated

San Marino:
  Founding of the Republic, 3 September (301)

Sao Tome and Principe:
  Independence Day, 12 July (1975)

Saudi Arabia:
  Unification of the Kingdom, 23 September (1932)

Senegal:
  Independence Day, 4 April (1960)

Seychelles:
  Constitution Day, 18 June (1993)

Sierra Leone:
  Independence Day, 27 April (1961)

Singapore:
  Independence Day, 9 August (1965)

Slovakia:
  Constitution Day, 1 September (1992)

Slovenia:
  Independence Day/Statehood Day, 25 June (1991)

Solomon Islands:
  Independence Day, 7 July (1978)

Somalia:
  Foundation of the Somali Republic, 1 July (1960)

South Africa:
  Freedom Day, 27 April (1994)

South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands:
  Liberation Day, 14
  June (1982)

Spain:
  Hispanic Day, 12 October

Sri Lanka:
  Independence Day, 4 February (1948)

Sudan:
  Independence Day, 1 January (1956)

Suriname:
  Independence Day, 25 November (1975)

Svalbard:
  NA

Swaziland:
  Independence Day, 6 September (1968)

Sweden:
  Flag Day, 6 June

Switzerland:
  Founding of the Swiss Confederation, 1 August (1291)

Syria:
  Independence Day, 17 April (1946)

Tajikistan:
  Independence Day, 9 September (1991)

Tanzania:
  Union Day (Tanganyika and Zanzibar), 26 April (1964)

Thailand:
  Birthday of King PHUMIPHON, 5 December (1927)

Togo:
  Independence Day, 27 April (1960)

Tokelau:
  Waitangi Day (Treaty of Waitangi established British
  sovereignty over New Zealand), 6 February (1840)

Tonga:
  Independence Day, 4 June (1970)

Trinidad and Tobago:
  Independence Day, 31 August (1962)

Tunisia:
  Independence Day, 20 March (1956)

Turkey:
  Independence Day, 29 October (1923)

Turkmenistan:
  Independence Day, 27 October (1991)

Turks and Caicos Islands:
  Constitution Day, 30 August (1976)

Tuvalu:
  Independence Day, 1 October (1978)

Uganda:
  Independence Day, 9 October (1962)

Ukraine:
  Independence Day, 24 August (1991)

United Arab Emirates:
  Independence Day, 2 December (1971)

United Kingdom:
  Birthday of Queen ELIZABETH II, celebrated on the
  second Saturday in June (1926)

United States:
  Independence Day, 4 July (1776)

Uruguay:
  Independence Day, 25 August (1825)

Uzbekistan:
  Independence Day, 1 September (1991)

Vanuatu:
  Independence Day, 30 July (1980)

Venezuela:
  Independence Day, 5 July (1811)

Vietnam:
  Independence Day, 2 September (1945)

Virgin Islands:
  Transfer Day (from Denmark to the US), 27 March
  (1917)

Wallis and Futuna:
  Bastille Day, 14 July (1789)

Yemen:
  Unification Day, 22 May (1990)

Yugoslavia:
  Republic Day, 29 November

Zambia:
  Independence Day, 24 October (1964)

Zimbabwe:
  Independence Day, 18 April (1980)

Taiwan:
  Republic Day (Anniversary of the Chinese Revolution), 10
  October (1911)

======================================================================

@Nationality



Afghanistan:
  noun:  Afghan(s)

  adjective:  Afghan

Albania:
  noun:  Albanian(s)

  adjective:  Albanian

Algeria:
  noun:  Algerian(s)

  adjective:  Algerian

American Samoa:
  noun:  American Samoan(s)

  adjective:  American Samoan

Andorra:
  noun:  Andorran(s)

  adjective:  Andorran

Angola:
  noun:  Angolan(s)

  adjective:  Angolan

Anguilla:
  noun:  Anguillan(s)

  adjective:  Anguillan

Antigua and Barbuda:
  noun:  Antiguan(s), Barbudan(s)

  adjective:  Antiguan, Barbudan

Argentina:
  noun:  Argentine(s)

  adjective:  Argentine

Armenia:
  noun:  Armenian(s)

  adjective:  Armenian

Aruba:
  noun:  Aruban(s)

  adjective:  Aruban; Dutch

Australia:
  noun:  Australian(s)

  adjective:  Australian

Austria:
  noun:  Austrian(s)

  adjective:  Austrian

Azerbaijan:
  noun:  Azerbaijani(s)

  adjective:  Azerbaijani

Bahamas, The:
  noun:  Bahamian(s)

  adjective:  Bahamian

Bahrain:
  noun:  Bahraini(s)

  adjective:  Bahraini

Bangladesh:
  noun:  Bangladeshi(s)

  adjective:  Bangladeshi

Barbados:
  noun:  Barbadian(s) or Bajan (colloquial)

  adjective:  Barbadian or Bajan (colloquial)

Belarus:
  noun:  Belarusian(s)

  adjective:  Belarusian

Belgium:
  noun:  Belgian(s)

  adjective:  Belgian

Belize:
  noun:  Belizean(s)

  adjective:  Belizean

Benin:
  noun:  Beninese (singular and plural)

  adjective:  Beninese

Bermuda:
  noun:  Bermudian(s)

  adjective:  Bermudian

Bhutan:
  noun:  Bhutanese (singular and plural)

  adjective:  Bhutanese

Bolivia:
  noun:  Bolivian(s)

  adjective:  Bolivian

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  noun:  Bosnian(s), Herzegovinian(s)

  adjective:  Bosnian, Herzegovinian

Botswana:
  noun:  Motswana (singular), Batswana (plural)

  adjective:  Motswana (singular), Batswana (plural)

Brazil:
  noun:  Brazilian(s)

  adjective:  Brazilian

British Virgin Islands:
  noun:  British Virgin Islander(s)

  adjective:  British Virgin Islander

Brunei:
  noun:  Bruneian(s)

  adjective:  Bruneian

Bulgaria:
  noun:  Bulgarian(s)

  adjective:  Bulgarian

Burkina Faso:
  noun:  Burkinabe (singular and plural)

  adjective:  Burkinabe

Burma:
  noun:  Burmese (singular and plural)

  adjective:  Burmese

Burundi:
  noun:  Burundian(s)

  adjective:  Burundi

Cambodia:
  noun:  Cambodian(s)

  adjective:  Cambodian

Cameroon:
  noun:  Cameroonian(s)

  adjective:  Cameroonian

Canada:
  noun:  Canadian(s)

  adjective:  Canadian

Cape Verde:
  noun:  Cape Verdean(s)

  adjective:  Cape Verdean

Cayman Islands:
  noun:  Caymanian(s)

  adjective:  Caymanian

Central African Republic:
  noun:  Central African(s)

  adjective:  Central African

Chad:
  noun:  Chadian(s)

  adjective:  Chadian

Chile:
  noun:  Chilean(s)

  adjective:  Chilean

China:
  noun:  Chinese (singular and plural)

  adjective:  Chinese

Christmas Island:
  noun:  Christmas Islander(s)

  adjective:  Christmas Island

Cocos (Keeling) Islands:
  noun:  Cocos Islander(s)

  adjective:  Cocos Islander

Colombia:
  noun:  Colombian(s)

  adjective:  Colombian

Comoros:
  noun:  Comoran(s)

  adjective:  Comoran

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  noun:  Congolese (singular and
  plural)

  adjective:  Congolese or Congo

Congo, Republic of the:
  noun:  Congolese (singular and plural)

  adjective:  Congolese or Congo

Cook Islands:
  noun:  Cook Islander(s)

  adjective:  Cook Islander

Costa Rica:
  noun:  Costa Rican(s)

  adjective:  Costa Rican

Cote d'Ivoire:
  noun:  Ivorian(s)

  adjective:  Ivorian

Croatia:
  noun:  Croat(s)

  adjective:  Croatian

Cuba:
  noun:  Cuban(s)

  adjective:  Cuban

Cyprus:
  noun:  Cypriot(s)

  adjective:  Cypriot

Czech Republic:
  noun:  Czech(s)

  adjective:  Czech

Denmark:
  noun:  Dane(s)

  adjective:  Danish

Djibouti:
  noun:  Djiboutian(s)

  adjective:  Djiboutian

Dominica:
  noun:  Dominican(s)

  adjective:  Dominican

Dominican Republic:
  noun:  Dominican(s)

  adjective:  Dominican

Ecuador:
  noun:  Ecuadorian(s)

  adjective:  Ecuadorian

Egypt:
  noun:  Egyptian(s)

  adjective:  Egyptian

El Salvador:
  noun:  Salvadoran(s)

  adjective:  Salvadoran

Equatorial Guinea:
  noun:  Equatorial Guinean(s) or Equatoguinean(s)

  adjective:  Equatorial Guinean or Equatoguinean

Eritrea:
  noun:  Eritrean(s)

  adjective:  Eritrean

Estonia:
  noun:  Estonian(s)

  adjective:  Estonian

Ethiopia:
  noun:  Ethiopian(s)

  adjective:  Ethiopian

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas):
  noun:  Falkland Islander(s)

  adjective:  Falkland Island

Faroe Islands:
  noun:  Faroese (singular and plural)

  adjective:  Faroese

Fiji:
  noun:  Fijian(s)

  adjective:  Fijian

Finland:
  noun:  Finn(s)

  adjective:  Finnish

France:
  noun:  Frenchman(men), Frenchwoman(women)

  adjective:  French

French Guiana:
  noun:  French Guianese (singular and plural)

  adjective:  French Guianese

French Polynesia:
  noun:  French Polynesian(s)

  adjective:  French Polynesian

Gabon:
  noun:  Gabonese (singular and plural)

  adjective:  Gabonese

Gambia, The:
  noun:  Gambian(s)

  adjective:  Gambian

Gaza Strip:
  noun:  NA

  adjective:  NA

Georgia:
  noun:  Georgian(s)

  adjective:  Georgian

Germany:
  noun:  German(s)

  adjective:  German

Ghana:
  noun:  Ghanaian(s)

  adjective:  Ghanaian

Gibraltar:
  noun:  Gibraltarian(s)

  adjective:  Gibraltar

Greece:
  noun:  Greek(s)

  adjective:  Greek

Greenland:
  noun:  Greenlander(s)

  adjective:  Greenlandic

Grenada:
  noun:  Grenadian(s)

  adjective:  Grenadian

Guadeloupe:
  noun:  Guadeloupian(s)

  adjective:  Guadeloupe

Guam:
  noun:  Guamanian(s)

  adjective:  Guamanian

Guatemala:
  noun:  Guatemalan(s)

  adjective:  Guatemalan

Guernsey:
  noun:  Channel Islander(s)

  adjective:  Channel Islander

Guinea:
  noun:  Guinean(s)

  adjective:  Guinean

Guinea-Bissau:
  noun:  Guinean (s)

  adjective:  Guinean

Guyana:
  noun:  Guyanese (singular and plural)

  adjective:  Guyanese

Haiti:
  noun:  Haitian(s)

  adjective:  Haitian

Holy See (Vatican City):
  noun:  none

  adjective:  none

Honduras:
  noun:  Honduran(s)

  adjective:  Honduran

Hong Kong:
  noun:  Chinese

  adjective:  Chinese

Hungary:
  noun:  Hungarian(s)

  adjective:  Hungarian

Iceland:
  noun:  Icelander(s)

  adjective:  Icelandic

India:
  noun:  Indian(s)

  adjective:  Indian

Indonesia:
  noun:  Indonesian(s)

  adjective:  Indonesian

Iran:
  noun:  Iranian(s)

  adjective:  Iranian

Iraq:
  noun:  Iraqi(s)

  adjective:  Iraqi

Ireland:
  noun:  Irishman(men), Irishwoman(women), Irish (collective
  plural)

  adjective:  Irish

Israel:
  noun:  Israeli(s)

  adjective:  Israeli

Italy:
  noun:  Italian(s)

  adjective:  Italian

Jamaica:
  noun:  Jamaican(s)

  adjective:  Jamaican

Japan:
  noun:  Japanese (singular and plural)

  adjective:  Japanese

Jersey:
  noun:  Channel Islander(s)

  adjective:  Channel Islander

Jordan:
  noun:  Jordanian(s)

  adjective:  Jordanian

Kazakhstan:
  noun:  Kazakhstani(s)

  adjective:  Kazakhstani

Kenya:
  noun:  Kenyan(s)

  adjective:  Kenyan

Kiribati:
  noun:  I-Kiribati (singular and plural)

  adjective:  I-Kiribati

Korea, North:
  noun:  Korean(s)

  adjective:  Korean

Korea, South:
  noun:  Korean(s)

  adjective:  Korean

Kuwait:
  noun:  Kuwaiti(s)

  adjective:  Kuwaiti

Kyrgyzstan:
  noun:  Kyrgyzstani(s)

  adjective:  Kyrgyzstani

Laos:
  noun:  Lao(s) or Laotian(s)

  adjective:  Lao or Laotian

Latvia:
  noun:  Latvian(s)

  adjective:  Latvian

Lebanon:
  noun:  Lebanese (singular and plural)

  adjective:  Lebanese

Lesotho:
  noun:  Mosotho (singular), Basotho (plural)

  adjective:  Basotho

Liberia:
  noun:  Liberian(s)

  adjective:  Liberian

Libya:
  noun:  Libyan(s)

  adjective:  Libyan

Liechtenstein:
  noun:  Liechtensteiner(s)

  adjective:  Liechtenstein

Lithuania:
  noun:  Lithuanian(s)

  adjective:  Lithuanian

Luxembourg:
  noun:  Luxembourger(s)

  adjective:  Luxembourg

Macau:
  noun:  Chinese

  adjective:  Chinese

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  noun:  Macedonian(s)

  adjective:  Macedonian

Madagascar:
  noun:  Malagasy (singular and plural)

  adjective:  Malagasy

Malawi:
  noun:  Malawian(s)

  adjective:  Malawian

Malaysia:
  noun:  Malaysian(s)

  adjective:  Malaysian

Maldives:
  noun:  Maldivian(s)

  adjective:  Maldivian

Mali:
  noun:  Malian(s)

  adjective:  Malian

Malta:
  noun:  Maltese (singular and plural)

  adjective:  Maltese

Man, Isle of:
  noun:  Manxman (men), Manxwoman (women)

  adjective:  Manx

Marshall Islands:
  noun:  Marshallese (singular and plural)

  adjective:  Marshallese

Martinique:
  noun:  Martiniquais (singular and plural)

  adjective:  Martiniquais

Mauritania:
  noun:  Mauritanian(s)

  adjective:  Mauritanian

Mauritius:
  noun:  Mauritian(s)

  adjective:  Mauritian

Mayotte:
  noun:  Mahorais (singular and plural)

  adjective:  Mahoran

Mexico:
  noun:  Mexican(s)

  adjective:  Mexican

Micronesia, Federated States of:
  noun:  Micronesian(s)

  adjective:  Micronesian; Kosrae(s), Pohnpeian(s), Trukese, Yapese

Moldova:
  noun:  Moldovan(s)

  adjective:  Moldovan

Monaco:
  noun:  Monegasque(s) or Monacan(s)

  adjective:  Monegasque or Monacan

Mongolia:
  noun:  Mongolian(s)

  adjective:  Mongolian

Montserrat:
  noun:  Montserratian(s)

  adjective:  Montserratian

Morocco:
  noun:  Moroccan(s)

  adjective:  Moroccan

Mozambique:
  noun:  Mozambican(s)

  adjective:  Mozambican

Namibia:
  noun:  Namibian(s)

  adjective:  Namibian

Nauru:
  noun:  Nauruan(s)

  adjective:  Nauruan

Nepal:
  noun:  Nepalese (singular and plural)

  adjective:  Nepalese

Netherlands:
  noun:  Dutchman(men), Dutchwoman(women)

  adjective:  Dutch

Netherlands Antilles:
  noun:  Dutch Antillean(s)

  adjective:  Dutch Antillean

New Caledonia:
  noun:  New Caledonian(s)

  adjective:  New Caledonian

New Zealand:
  noun:  New Zealander(s)

  adjective:  New Zealand

Nicaragua:
  noun:  Nicaraguan(s)

  adjective:  Nicaraguan

Niger:
  noun:  Nigerien(s)

  adjective:  Nigerien

Nigeria:
  noun:  Nigerian(s)

  adjective:  Nigerian

Niue:
  noun:  Niuean(s)

  adjective:  Niuean

Norfolk Island:
  noun:  Norfolk Islander(s)

  adjective:  Norfolk Islander(s)

Northern Mariana Islands:
  noun:  NA

  adjective:  NA

Norway:
  noun:  Norwegian(s)

  adjective:  Norwegian

Oman:
  noun:  Omani(s)

  adjective:  Omani

Pakistan:
  noun:  Pakistani(s)

  adjective:  Pakistani

Palau:
  noun:  Palauan(s)

  adjective:  Palauan

Panama:
  noun:  Panamanian(s)

  adjective:  Panamanian

Papua New Guinea:
  noun:  Papua New Guinean(s)

  adjective:  Papua New Guinean

Paraguay:
  noun:  Paraguayan(s)

  adjective:  Paraguayan

Peru:
  noun:  Peruvian(s)

  adjective:  Peruvian

Philippines:
  noun:  Filipino(s)

  adjective:  Philippine

Pitcairn Islands:
  noun:  Pitcairn Islander(s)

  adjective:  Pitcairn Islander

Poland:
  noun:  Pole(s)

  adjective:  Polish

Portugal:
  noun:  Portuguese (singular and plural)

  adjective:  Portuguese

Puerto Rico:
  noun:  Puerto Rican(s) (US citizens)

  adjective:  Puerto Rican

Qatar:
  noun:  Qatari(s)

  adjective:  Qatari

Reunion:
  noun:  Reunionese (singular and plural)

  adjective:  Reunionese

Romania:
  noun:  Romanian(s)

  adjective:  Romanian

Russia:
  noun:  Russian(s)

  adjective:  Russian

Rwanda:
  noun:  Rwandan(s)

  adjective:  Rwandan

Saint Helena:
  noun:  Saint Helenian(s)

  adjective:  Saint Helenian

Saint Kitts and Nevis:
  noun:  Kittitian(s), Nevisian(s)

  adjective:  Kittitian, Nevisian

Saint Lucia:
  noun:  Saint Lucian(s)

  adjective:  Saint Lucian

Saint Pierre and Miquelon:
  noun:  Frenchman(men), Frenchwoman(women)

  adjective:  French

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:
  noun:  Saint Vincentian(s) or
  Vincentian(s)

  adjective:  Saint Vincentian or Vincentian

Samoa:
  noun:  Samoan(s)

  adjective:  Samoan

San Marino:
  noun:  Sammarinese (singular and plural)

  adjective:  Sammarinese

Sao Tome and Principe:
  noun:  Sao Tomean(s)

  adjective:  Sao Tomean

Saudi Arabia:
  noun:  Saudi(s)

  adjective:  Saudi or Saudi Arabian

Senegal:
  noun:  Senegalese (singular and plural)

  adjective:  Senegalese

Seychelles:
  noun:  Seychellois (singular and plural)

  adjective:  Seychelles

Sierra Leone:
  noun:  Sierra Leonean(s)

  adjective:  Sierra Leonean

Singapore:
  noun:  Singaporean(s)

  adjective:  Singapore

Slovakia:
  noun:  Slovak(s)

  adjective:  Slovak

Slovenia:
  noun:  Slovene(s)

  adjective:  Slovenian

Solomon Islands:
  noun:  Solomon Islander(s)

  adjective:  Solomon Islander

Somalia:
  noun:  Somali(s)

  adjective:  Somali

South Africa:
  noun:  South African(s)

  adjective:  South African

Spain:
  noun:  Spaniard(s)

  adjective:  Spanish

Sri Lanka:
  noun:  Sri Lankan(s)

  adjective:  Sri Lankan

Sudan:
  noun:  Sudanese (singular and plural)

  adjective:  Sudanese

Suriname:
  noun:  Surinamer(s)

  adjective:  Surinamese

Swaziland:
  noun:  Swazi(s)

  adjective:  Swazi

Sweden:
  noun:  Swede(s)

  adjective:  Swedish

Switzerland:
  noun:  Swiss (singular and plural)

  adjective:  Swiss

Syria:
  noun:  Syrian(s)

  adjective:  Syrian

Tajikistan:
  noun:  Tajikistani(s)

  adjective:  Tajikistani

Tanzania:
  noun:  Tanzanian(s)

  adjective:  Tanzanian

Thailand:
  noun:  Thai (singular and plural)

  adjective:  Thai

Togo:
  noun:  Togolese (singular and plural)

  adjective:  Togolese

Tokelau:
  noun:  Tokelauan(s)

  adjective:  Tokelauan

Tonga:
  noun:  Tongan(s)

  adjective:  Tongan

Trinidad and Tobago:
  noun:  Trinidadian(s), Tobagonian(s)

  adjective:  Trinidadian, Tobagonian

Tunisia:
  noun:  Tunisian(s)

  adjective:  Tunisian

Turkey:
  noun:  Turk(s)

  adjective:  Turkish

Turkmenistan:
  noun:  Turkmen(s)

  adjective:  Turkmen

Turks and Caicos Islands:
  noun:  none

  adjective:  none

Tuvalu:
  noun:  Tuvaluan(s)

  adjective:  Tuvaluan

Uganda:
  noun:  Ugandan(s)

  adjective:  Ugandan

Ukraine:
  noun:  Ukrainian(s)

  adjective:  Ukrainian

United Arab Emirates:
  noun:  Emirati(s)

  adjective:  Emirati

United Kingdom:
  noun:  Briton(s), British (collective plural)

  adjective:  British

United States:
  noun:  American(s)

  adjective:  American

Uruguay:
  noun:  Uruguayan(s)

  adjective:  Uruguayan

Uzbekistan:
  noun:  Uzbekistani(s)

  adjective:  Uzbekistani

Vanuatu:
  noun:  Ni-Vanuatu (singular and plural)

  adjective:  Ni-Vanuatu

Venezuela:
  noun:  Venezuelan(s)

  adjective:  Venezuelan

Vietnam:
  noun:  Vietnamese (singular and plural)

  adjective:  Vietnamese

Virgin Islands:
  noun:  Virgin Islander(s)

  adjective:  Virgin Islander

Wallis and Futuna:
  noun:  Wallisian(s), Futunan(s), or Wallis and
  Futuna Islanders

  adjective:  Wallisian, Futunan, or Wallis and Futuna Islander

West Bank:
  noun:  NA

  adjective:  NA

Western Sahara:
  noun:  Sahrawi(s), Sahraoui(s)

  adjective:  Sahrawian, Sahraouian

Yemen:
  noun:  Yemeni(s)

  adjective:  Yemeni

Yugoslavia:
  noun:  Serb(s); Montenegrin(s)

  adjective:  Serbian; Montenegrin

Zambia:
  noun:  Zambian(s)

  adjective:  Zambian

Zimbabwe:
  noun:  Zimbabwean(s)

  adjective:  Zimbabwean

Taiwan:
  noun:  Chinese (singular and plural)

  adjective:  Chinese

======================================================================

@Natural hazards



Afghanistan:
  damaging earthquakes occur in Hindu Kush mountains;
  flooding; droughts

Albania:
  destructive earthquakes; tsunamis occur along southwestern
  coast; drought

Algeria:
  mountainous areas subject to severe earthquakes; mud slides

American Samoa:
  typhoons common from December to March

Andorra:
  snowslides, avalanches

Angola:
  locally heavy rainfall causes periodic flooding on the
  plateau

Anguilla:
  frequent hurricanes and other tropical storms (July to
  October)

Antarctica:
  katabatic (gravity-driven) winds blow coastward from the
  high interior; frequent blizzards form near the foot of the plateau;
  cyclonic storms form over the ocean and move clockwise along the
  coast; volcanism on Deception Island and isolated areas of West
  Antarctica; other seismic activity rare and weak; large icebergs may
  calve from ice shelf

Antigua and Barbuda:
  hurricanes and tropical storms (July to
  October); periodic droughts

Arctic Ocean:
  ice islands occasionally break away from northern
  Ellesmere Island; icebergs calved from glaciers in western Greenland
  and extreme northeastern Canada; permafrost in islands; virtually
  ice locked from October to June; ships subject to superstructure
  icing from October to May

Argentina:
  San Miguel de Tucuman and Mendoza areas in the Andes
  subject to earthquakes; pamperos are violent windstorms that can
  strike the Pampas and northeast; heavy flooding

Armenia:
  occasionally severe earthquakes; droughts

Aruba:
  lies outside the Caribbean hurricane belt

Ashmore and Cartier Islands:
  surrounded by shoals and reefs that can
  pose maritime hazards

Atlantic Ocean:
  icebergs common in Davis Strait, Denmark Strait, and
  the northwestern Atlantic Ocean from February to August and have
  been spotted as far south as Bermuda and the Madeira Islands; ships
  subject to superstructure icing in extreme northern Atlantic from
  October to May; persistent fog can be a maritime hazard from May to
  September; hurricanes (May to December)

Australia:
  cyclones along the coast; severe droughts

Austria:
  NA

Azerbaijan:
  droughts; some lowland areas threatened by rising levels
  of the Caspian Sea

Bahamas, The:
  hurricanes and other tropical storms that cause
  extensive flood and wind damage

Bahrain:
  periodic droughts; dust storms

Baker Island:
  the narrow fringing reef surrounding the island can be
  a maritime hazard

Bangladesh:
  droughts, cyclones; much of the country routinely
  inundated during the summer monsoon season

Barbados:
  infrequent hurricanes; periodic landslides

Bassas da India:
  maritime hazard since it is usually under water
  during high tide and surrounded by reefs; subject to periodic
  cyclones

Belarus:
  NA

Belgium:
  flooding is a threat in areas of reclaimed coastal land,
  protected from the sea by concrete dikes

Belize:
  frequent, devastating hurricanes (September to December) and
  coastal flooding (especially in south)

Benin:
  hot, dry, dusty harmattan wind may affect north in winter

Bermuda:
  hurricanes (June to November)

Bhutan:
  violent storms coming down from the Himalayas are the source
  of the country's name which translates as Land of the Thunder
  Dragon; frequent landslides during the rainy season

Bolivia:
  flooding in the northeast (March-April)

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  destructive earthquakes

Botswana:
  periodic droughts; seasonal August winds blow from the
  west, carrying sand and dust across the country, which can obscure
  visibility

Bouvet Island:
  NA

Brazil:
  recurring droughts in northeast; floods and occasional frost
  in south

British Indian Ocean Territory:
  NA

British Virgin Islands:
  hurricanes and tropical storms (July to
  October)

Brunei:
  typhoons, earthquakes, and severe flooding are very rare

Bulgaria:
  earthquakes, landslides

Burkina Faso:
  recurring droughts

Burma:
  destructive earthquakes and cyclones; flooding and landslides
  common during rainy season (June to September); periodic droughts

Burundi:
  flooding, landslides, drought

Cambodia:
  monsoonal rains (June to November); flooding; occasional
  droughts

Cameroon:
  recent volcanic activity with release of poisonous gases

Canada:
  continuous permafrost in north is a serious obstacle to
  development; cyclonic storms form east of the Rocky Mountains, a
  result of the mixing of air masses from the Arctic, Pacific, and
  North American interior, and produce most of the country's rain and
  snow

Cape Verde:
  prolonged droughts; harmattan wind can obscure
  visibility; volcanically and seismically active

Cayman Islands:
  hurricanes (July to November)

Central African Republic:
  hot, dry, dusty harmattan winds affect
  northern areas; floods are common

Chad:
  hot, dry, dusty harmattan winds occur in north; periodic
  droughts; locust plagues

Chile:
  severe earthquakes; active volcanism; tsunamis

China:
  frequent typhoons (about five per year along southern and
  eastern coasts); damaging floods; tsunamis; earthquakes; droughts

Christmas Island:
  the narrow fringing reef surrounding the island
  can be a maritime hazard

Clipperton Island:
  NA

Cocos (Keeling) Islands:
  cyclones may occur in the early months of
  the year

Colombia:
  highlands subject to volcanic eruptions; occasional
  earthquakes; periodic droughts

Comoros:
  cyclones possible during rainy season (December to April);
  Le Kartala on Grand Comore is an active volcano

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  periodic droughts in south;
  volcanic activity

Congo, Republic of the:
  seasonal flooding

Cook Islands:
  typhoons (November to March)

Coral Sea Islands:
  occasional tropical cyclones

Costa Rica:
  occasional earthquakes, hurricanes along Atlantic coast;
  frequent flooding of lowlands at onset of rainy season and
  landslides; active volcanoes

Cote d'Ivoire:
  coast has heavy surf and no natural harbors; during
  the rainy season torrential flooding is possible

Croatia:
  destructive earthquakes

Cuba:
  the east coast is subject to hurricanes from August to October
  (in general, the country averages about one hurricane every other
  year); droughts are common

Cyprus:
  moderate earthquake activity; droughts

Czech Republic:
  flooding

Denmark:
  flooding is a threat in some areas of the country (e.g.,
  parts of Jutland, along the southern coast of the island of Lolland)
  that are protected from the sea by a system of dikes

Djibouti:
  earthquakes; droughts; occasional cyclonic disturbances
  from the Indian Ocean bring heavy rains and flash floods

Dominica:
  flash floods are a constant threat; destructive hurricanes
  can be expected during the late summer months

Dominican Republic:
  lies in the middle of the hurricane belt and
  subject to severe storms from June to October; occasional flooding;
  periodic droughts

Ecuador:
  frequent earthquakes, landslides, volcanic activity;
  periodic droughts

Egypt:
  periodic droughts; frequent earthquakes, flash floods,
  landslides, volcanic activity; hot, driving windstorm called khamsin
  occurs in spring; dust storms, sandstorms

El Salvador:
  known as the Land of Volcanoes; frequent and sometimes
  very destructive earthquakes and volcanic activity

Equatorial Guinea:
  violent windstorms, flash floods

Eritrea:
  frequent droughts; locust swarms

Estonia:
  flooding occurs frequently in the spring

Ethiopia:
  geologically active Great Rift Valley susceptible to
  earthquakes, volcanic eruptions; frequent droughts

Europa Island:
  NA

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas):
  strong winds persist throughout
  the year

Faroe Islands:
  NA

Fiji:
  cyclonic storms can occur from November to January

Finland:
  NA

France:
  flooding; avalanches

French Guiana:
  high frequency of heavy showers and severe
  thunderstorms; flooding

French Polynesia:
  occasional cyclonic storms in January

French Southern and Antarctic Lands:
  Ile Amsterdam and Ile
  Saint-Paul are extinct volcanoes

Gabon:
  NA

Gambia, The:
  drought (rainfall has dropped by 30% in the last 30
  years)

Gaza Strip:
  droughts

Georgia:
  earthquakes

Germany:
  flooding

Ghana:
  dry, dusty, harmattan winds occur from January to March;
  droughts

Gibraltar:
  NA

Glorioso Islands:
  periodic cyclones

Greece:
  severe earthquakes

Greenland:
  continuous permafrost over northern two-thirds of the
  island

Grenada:
  lies on edge of hurricane belt; hurricane season lasts from
  June to November

Guadeloupe:
  hurricanes (June to October); Soufriere is an active
  volcano

Guam:
  frequent squalls during rainy season; relatively rare, but
  potentially very destructive typhoons (especially in August)

Guatemala:
  numerous volcanoes in mountains, with occasional violent
  earthquakes; Caribbean coast subject to hurricanes and other
  tropical storms

Guernsey:
  NA

Guinea:
  hot, dry, dusty harmattan haze may reduce visibility during
  dry season

Guinea-Bissau:
  hot, dry, dusty harmattan haze may reduce visibility
  during dry season; brush fires

Guyana:
  flash floods are a constant threat during rainy seasons

Haiti:
  lies in the middle of the hurricane belt and subject to
  severe storms from June to October; occasional flooding and
  earthquakes; periodic droughts

Heard Island and McDonald Islands:
  Heard Island is dominated by a
  dormant volcano called Big Ben

Holy See (Vatican City):
  NA

Honduras:
  frequent, but generally mild, earthquakes; damaging
  hurricanes and floods along Caribbean coast

Hong Kong:
  occasional typhoons

Howland Island:
  the narrow fringing reef surrounding the island can
  be a maritime hazard

Iceland:
  earthquakes and volcanic activity

India:
  droughts, flash floods, severe thunderstorms common;
  earthquakes

Indian Ocean:
  occasional icebergs pose navigational hazard in
  southern reaches

Indonesia:
  occasional floods, severe droughts, tsunamis,
  earthquakes, volcanoes

Iran:
  periodic droughts, floods; dust storms, sandstorms;
  earthquakes along western border and in the northeast

Iraq:
  dust storms, sandstorms, floods

Ireland:
  NA

Israel:
  sandstorms may occur during spring and summer; droughts

Italy:
  regional risks include landslides, mudflows, avalanches,
  earthquakes, volcanic eruptions, flooding; land subsidence in Venice

Jamaica:
  hurricanes (especially July to November)

Jan Mayen:
  dominated by the volcano Haakon VII Toppen/Beerenberg;
  volcanic activity resumed in 1970

Japan:
  many dormant and some active volcanoes; about 1,500 seismic
  occurrences (mostly tremors) every year; tsunamis; typhoons

Jarvis Island:
  the narrow fringing reef surrounding the island can
  be a maritime hazard

Jersey:
  NA

Johnston Atoll:
  NA

Jordan:
  droughts

Juan de Nova Island:
  periodic cyclones

Kazakhstan:
  earthquakes in the south, mudslides around Almaty

Kenya:
  recurring drought in northern and eastern regions; flooding
  during rainy seasons

Kingman Reef:
  wet or awash most of the time, maximum elevation of
  about 1 meter makes Kingman Reef a maritime hazard

Kiribati:
  typhoons can occur any time, but usually November to
  March; occasional tornadoes; low level of some of the islands make
  them very sensitive to changes in sea level

Korea, North:
  late spring droughts often followed by severe
  flooding; occasional typhoons during the early fall

Korea, South:
  occasional typhoons bring high winds and floods;
  low-level seismic activity common in southwest

Kuwait:
  sudden cloudbursts are common from October to April; they
  bring inordinate amounts of rain which can damage roads and houses;
  sandstorms and dust storms occur throughout the year, but are most
  common between March and August

Kyrgyzstan:
  NA

Laos:
  floods, droughts, and blight

Latvia:
  NA

Lebanon:
  dust storms, sandstorms

Lesotho:
  periodic droughts

Liberia:
  dust-laden harmattan winds blow from the Sahara (December
  to March)

Libya:
  hot, dry, dust-laden ghibli is a southern wind lasting one to
  four days in spring and fall; dust storms, sandstorms

Liechtenstein:
  NA

Lithuania:
  NA

Luxembourg:
  NA

Macau:
  typhoons

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  high seismic risks

Madagascar:
  periodic cyclones

Malawi:
  NA

Malaysia:
  flooding, landslides

Maldives:
  low level of islands makes them very sensitive to sea
  level rise

Mali:
  hot, dust-laden harmattan haze common during dry seasons;
  recurring droughts

Malta:
  NA

Man, Isle of:
  NA

Marshall Islands:
  occasional typhoons

Martinique:
  hurricanes, flooding, and volcanic activity (an average
  of one major natural disaster every five years)

Mauritania:
  hot, dry, dust/sand-laden sirocco wind blows primarily
  in March and April; periodic droughts

Mauritius:
  cyclones (November to April); almost completely
  surrounded by reefs that may pose maritime hazards

Mayotte:
  cyclones during rainy season

Mexico:
  tsunamis along the Pacific coast, volcanoes and destructive
  earthquakes in the center and south, and hurricanes on the Gulf of
  Mexico and Caribbean coasts

Micronesia, Federated States of:
  typhoons (June to December)

Midway Islands:
  NA

Moldova:
  landslides (57 cases in 1998)

Monaco:
  NA

Mongolia:
  dust and snow storms, grassland and forest fires, drought
  and "zud", which is a combination of drought followed by harsh
  winter conditions

Montserrat:
  severe hurricanes (June to November); volcanic eruptions
  (full-scale eruptions of the Soufriere Hills volcano occurred during
  1996-97)

Morocco:
  northern mountains geologically unstable and subject to
  earthquakes; periodic droughts

Mozambique:
  severe droughts and floods occur in central and southern
  provinces; devastating cyclones

Namibia:
  prolonged periods of drought

Nauru:
  periodic droughts

Navassa Island:
  NA

Nepal:
  severe thunderstorms, flooding, landslides, drought, and
  famine depending on the timing, intensity, and duration of the
  summer monsoons

Netherlands:
  flooding

Netherlands Antilles:
  Curacao and Bonaire are south of Caribbean
  hurricane belt and are rarely threatened; Sint Maarten, Saba, and
  Sint Eustatius are subject to hurricanes from July to October

New Caledonia:
  cyclones, most frequent from November to March

New Zealand:
  earthquakes are common, though usually not severe;
  volcanic activity

Nicaragua:
  destructive earthquakes, volcanoes, landslides, and
  occasionally severe hurricanes

Niger:
  recurring droughts

Nigeria:
  periodic droughts

Niue:
  typhoons

Norfolk Island:
  typhoons (especially May to July)

Northern Mariana Islands:
  active volcanoes on Pagan and Agrihan;
  typhoons (especially August to November)

Norway:
  rockslides, avalanches

Oman:
  summer winds often raise large sandstorms and dust storms in
  interior; periodic droughts

Pacific Ocean:
  surrounded by a zone of violent volcanic and
  earthquake activity sometimes referred to as the "Pacific Ring of
  Fire"; subject to tropical cyclones (typhoons) in southeast and east
  Asia from May to December (most frequent from July to October);
  tropical cyclones (hurricanes) may form south of Mexico and strike
  Central America and Mexico from June to October (most common in
  August and September); cyclical El Nino/La Nina phenomenon occurs in
  the equatorial Pacific, influencing weather in the Western
  Hemisphere and the western Pacific; ships subject to superstructure
  icing in extreme north from October to May; persistent fog in the
  northern Pacific can be a maritime hazard from June to December

Pakistan:
  frequent earthquakes, occasionally severe especially in
  north and west; flooding along the Indus after heavy rains (July and
  August)

Palau:
  typhoons (June to December)

Palmyra Atoll:
  NA

Panama:
  NA

Papua New Guinea:
  active volcanism; situated along the Pacific "Rim
  of Fire"; the country is subject to frequent and sometimes severe
  earthquakes; mud slides; tsunamis

Paracel Islands:
  typhoons

Paraguay:
  local flooding in southeast (early September to June);
  poorly drained plains may become boggy (early October to June)

Peru:
  earthquakes, tsunamis, flooding, landslides, mild volcanic
  activity

Philippines:
  astride typhoon belt, usually affected by 15 and struck
  by five to six cyclonic storms per year; landslides; active
  volcanoes; destructive earthquakes; tsunamis

Pitcairn Islands:
  typhoons (especially November to March)

Poland:
  NA

Portugal:
  Azores subject to severe earthquakes

Puerto Rico:
  periodic droughts; hurricanes

Qatar:
  haze, dust storms, sandstorms common

Reunion:
  periodic, devastating cyclones (December to April); Piton
  de la Fournaise on the southeastern coast is an active volcano

Romania:
  earthquakes most severe in south and southwest; geologic
  structure and climate promote landslides

Russia:
  permafrost over much of Siberia is a major impediment to
  development; volcanic activity in the Kuril Islands; volcanoes and
  earthquakes on the Kamchatka Peninsula

Rwanda:
  periodic droughts; the volcanic Virunga mountains are in the
  northwest along the border with Democratic Republic of the Congo

Saint Helena:
  active volcanism on Tristan da Cunha

Saint Kitts and Nevis:
  hurricanes (July to October)

Saint Lucia:
  hurricanes and volcanic activity

Saint Pierre and Miquelon:
  persistent fog throughout the year can be
  a maritime hazard

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:
  hurricanes; Soufriere volcano on
  the island of Saint Vincent is a constant threat

Samoa:
  occasional typhoons; active volcanism

San Marino:
  NA

Sao Tome and Principe:
  NA

Saudi Arabia:
  frequent sand and dust storms

Senegal:
  lowlands seasonally flooded; periodic droughts

Seychelles:
  lies outside the cyclone belt, so severe storms are
  rare; short droughts possible

Sierra Leone:
  dry, sand-laden harmattan winds blow from the Sahara
  (December to February); sandstorms, dust storms

Singapore:
  NA

Slovakia:
  NA

Slovenia:
  flooding and earthquakes

Solomon Islands:
  typhoons, but they are rarely destructive;
  geologically active region with frequent earth tremors; volcanic
  activity

Somalia:
  recurring droughts; frequent dust storms over eastern
  plains in summer; floods during rainy season

South Africa:
  prolonged droughts

South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands:
  the South Sandwich
  Islands have prevailing weather conditions that generally make them
  difficult to approach by ship; they are also subject to active
  volcanism

Southern Ocean:
  huge icebergs with drafts up to several hundred
  meters; smaller bergs and iceberg fragments; sea ice (generally 0.5
  to 1 meter thick) with sometimes dynamic short-term variations and
  with large annual and interannual variations; deep continental shelf
  floored by glacial deposits varying widely over short distances;
  high winds and large waves much of the year; ship icing, especially
  May-October; most of region is remote from sources of search and
  rescue

Spain:
  periodic droughts

Spratly Islands:
  typhoons; serious maritime hazard because of
  numerous reefs and shoals

Sri Lanka:
  occasional cyclones and tornadoes

Sudan:
  dust storms

Suriname:
  NA

Svalbard:
  ice floes often block up the entrance to Bellsund (a
  transit point for coal export) on the west coast and occasionally
  make parts of the northeastern coast inaccessible to maritime traffic

Swaziland:
  NA

Sweden:
  ice floes in the surrounding waters, especially in the Gulf
  of Bothnia, can interfere with maritime traffic

Switzerland:
  avalanches, landslides, flash floods

Syria:
  dust storms, sandstorms

Tajikistan:
  NA

Tanzania:
  flooding on the central plateau during the rainy season;
  drought

Thailand:
  land subsidence in Bangkok area resulting from the
  depletion of the water table; droughts

Togo:
  hot, dry harmattan wind can reduce visibility in north during
  winter; periodic droughts

Tokelau:
  lies in Pacific typhoon belt

Tonga:
  cyclones (October to April); earthquakes and volcanic
  activity on Fonuafo'ou

Trinidad and Tobago:
  outside usual path of hurricanes and other
  tropical storms

Tromelin Island:
  NA

Tunisia:
  NA

Turkey:
  very severe earthquakes, especially in northern Turkey,
  along an arc extending from the Sea of Marmara to Lake Van

Turkmenistan:
  NA

Turks and Caicos Islands:
  frequent hurricanes

Tuvalu:
  severe tropical storms are usually rare, but, in 1997, there
  were three cyclones; low level of islands make them very sensitive
  to changes in sea level

Uganda:
  NA

Ukraine:
  NA

United Arab Emirates:
  frequent sand and dust storms

United Kingdom:
  NA

United States:
  tsunamis, volcanoes, and earthquake activity around
  Pacific Basin; hurricanes along the Atlantic and Gulf of Mexico
  coasts; tornadoes in the midwest and southeast; mud slides in
  California; forest fires in the west; flooding; permafrost in
  northern Alaska, a major impediment to development

Uruguay:
  seasonally high winds (the pampero is a chilly and
  occasional violent wind which blows north from the Argentine
  pampas), droughts, floods; because of the absence of mountains,
  which act as weather barriers, all locations are particularly
  vulnerable to rapid changes in weather fronts

Uzbekistan:
  NA

Vanuatu:
  tropical cyclones or typhoons (January to April); volcanism
  causes minor earthquakes

Venezuela:
  subject to floods, rockslides, mudslides; periodic
  droughts

Vietnam:
  occasional typhoons (May to January) with extensive flooding

Virgin Islands:
  several hurricanes in recent years; frequent and
  severe droughts and floods; occasional earthquakes

Wake Island:
  occasional typhoons

Wallis and Futuna:
  NA

West Bank:
  droughts

Western Sahara:
  hot, dry, dust/sand-laden sirocco wind can occur
  during winter and spring; widespread harmattan haze exists 60% of
  time, often severely restricting visibility

World:
  large areas subject to severe weather (tropical cyclones),
  natural disasters (earthquakes, landslides, tsunamis, volcanic
  eruptions)

Yemen:
  sandstorms and dust storms in summer

Yugoslavia:
  destructive earthquakes

Zambia:
  tropical storms (November to April)

Zimbabwe:
  recurring droughts; floods and severe storms are rare

Taiwan:
  earthquakes and typhoons

======================================================================

@Natural resources



Afghanistan:
  natural gas, petroleum, coal, copper, chromite, talc,
  barites, sulfur, lead, zinc, iron ore, salt, precious and
  semiprecious stones

Albania:
  petroleum, natural gas, coal, chromium, copper, timber,
  nickel, hydropower

Algeria:
  petroleum, natural gas, iron ore, phosphates, uranium,
  lead, zinc

American Samoa:
  pumice, pumicite

Andorra:
  hydropower, mineral water, timber, iron ore, lead

Angola:
  petroleum, diamonds, iron ore, phosphates, copper, feldspar,
  gold, bauxite, uranium

Anguilla:
  salt, fish, lobster

Antarctica:
  iron ore, chromium, copper, gold, nickel, platinum and
  other minerals, and coal and hydrocarbons have been found in small
  uncommercial quantities; none presently exploited; krill, finfish,
  and crab have been taken by commercial fisheries

Antigua and Barbuda:
  NEGL; pleasant climate fosters tourism

Arctic Ocean:
  sand and gravel aggregates, placer deposits,
  polymetallic nodules, oil and gas fields, fish, marine mammals
  (seals and whales)

Argentina:
  fertile plains of the Pampas, lead, zinc, tin, copper,
  iron ore, manganese, petroleum, uranium

Armenia:
  small deposits of gold, copper, molybdenum, zinc, alumina

Aruba:
  NEGL; white sandy beaches

Ashmore and Cartier Islands:
  fish

Atlantic Ocean:
  oil and gas fields, fish, marine mammals (seals and
  whales), sand and gravel aggregates, placer deposits, polymetallic
  nodules, precious stones

Australia:
  bauxite, coal, iron ore, copper, tin, silver, uranium,
  nickel, tungsten, mineral sands, lead, zinc, diamonds, natural gas,
  petroleum

Austria:
  iron ore, oil, timber, magnesite, lead, coal, lignite,
  copper, hydropower

Azerbaijan:
  petroleum, natural gas, iron ore, nonferrous metals,
  alumina

Bahamas, The:
  salt, aragonite, timber, arable land

Bahrain:
  oil, associated and nonassociated natural gas, fish, pearls

Baker Island:
  guano (deposits worked until 1891), terrestrial and
  aquatic wildlife

Bangladesh:
  natural gas, arable land, timber, coal

Barbados:
  petroleum, fish, natural gas

Bassas da India:
  none

Belarus:
  forests, peat deposits, small quantities of oil and natural
  gas

Belgium:
  coal, natural gas

Belize:
  arable land potential, timber, fish, hydropower

Benin:
  small offshore oil deposits, limestone, marble, timber

Bermuda:
  limestone, pleasant climate fostering tourism

Bhutan:
  timber, hydropower, gypsum, calcium carbide

Bolivia:
  tin, natural gas, petroleum, zinc, tungsten, antimony,
  silver, iron, lead, gold, timber, hydropower

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  coal, iron, bauxite, manganese, forests,
  copper, chromium, lead, zinc, hydropower

Botswana:
  diamonds, copper, nickel, salt, soda ash, potash, coal,
  iron ore, silver

Bouvet Island:
  none

Brazil:
  bauxite, gold, iron ore, manganese, nickel, phosphates,
  platinum, tin, uranium, petroleum, hydropower, timber

British Indian Ocean Territory:
  coconuts, fish, sugarcane

British Virgin Islands:
  NEGL

Brunei:
  petroleum, natural gas, timber

Bulgaria:
  bauxite, copper, lead, zinc, coal, timber, arable land

Burkina Faso:
  manganese, limestone, marble; small deposits of gold,
  antimony, copper, nickel, bauxite, lead, phosphates, zinc, silver

Burma:
  petroleum, timber, tin, antimony, zinc, copper, tungsten,
  lead, coal, some marble, limestone, precious stones, natural gas,
  hydropower

Burundi:
  nickel, uranium, rare earth oxides, peat, cobalt, copper,
  platinum (not yet exploited), vanadium, arable land, hydropower

Cambodia:
  timber, gemstones, some iron ore, manganese, phosphates,
  hydropower potential

Cameroon:
  petroleum, bauxite, iron ore, timber, hydropower

Canada:
  iron ore, nickel, zinc, copper, gold, lead, molybdenum,
  potash, silver, fish, timber, wildlife, coal, petroleum, natural
  gas, hydropower

Cape Verde:
  salt, basalt rock, pozzuolana (a siliceous volcanic ash
  used to produce hydraulic cement), limestone, kaolin, fish

Cayman Islands:
  fish, climate and beaches that foster tourism

Central African Republic:
  diamonds, uranium, timber, gold, oil,
  hydropower

Chad:
  petroleum (unexploited but exploration under way), uranium,
  natron, kaolin, fish (Lake Chad)

Chile:
  copper, timber, iron ore, nitrates, precious metals,
  molybdenum, hydropower

China:
  coal, iron ore, petroleum, natural gas, mercury, tin,
  tungsten, antimony, manganese, molybdenum, vanadium, magnetite,
  aluminum, lead, zinc, uranium, hydropower potential (world's largest)

Christmas Island:
  phosphate

Clipperton Island:
  fish

Cocos (Keeling) Islands:
  fish

Colombia:
  petroleum, natural gas, coal, iron ore, nickel, gold,
  copper, emeralds, hydropower

Comoros:
  NEGL

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  cobalt, copper, cadmium,
  petroleum, industrial and gem diamonds, gold, silver, zinc,
  manganese, tin, germanium, uranium, radium, bauxite, iron ore, coal,
  hydropower, timber

Congo, Republic of the:
  petroleum, timber, potash, lead, zinc,
  uranium, copper, phosphates, natural gas, hydropower

Cook Islands:
  NEGL

Coral Sea Islands:
  NEGL

Costa Rica:
  hydropower

Cote d'Ivoire:
  petroleum, natural gas, diamonds, manganese, iron
  ore, cobalt, bauxite, copper, hydropower

Croatia:
  oil, some coal, bauxite, low-grade iron ore, calcium,
  natural asphalt, silica, mica, clays, salt, hydropower

Cuba:
  cobalt, nickel, iron ore, copper, manganese, salt, timber,
  silica, petroleum, arable land

Cyprus:
  copper, pyrites, asbestos, gypsum, timber, salt, marble,
  clay earth pigment

Czech Republic:
  hard coal, soft coal, kaolin, clay, graphite, timber

Denmark:
  petroleum, natural gas, fish, salt, limestone, stone,
  gravel and sand

Djibouti:
  geothermal areas

Dominica:
  timber, hydropower, arable land

Dominican Republic:
  nickel, bauxite, gold, silver

Ecuador:
  petroleum, fish, timber, hydropower

Egypt:
  petroleum, natural gas, iron ore, phosphates, manganese,
  limestone, gypsum, talc, asbestos, lead, zinc

El Salvador:
  hydropower, geothermal power, petroleum, arable land

Equatorial Guinea:
  oil, petroleum, timber, small unexploited
  deposits of gold, manganese, uranium

Eritrea:
  gold, potash, zinc, copper, salt, possibly oil and natural
  gas, fish

Estonia:
  shale oil (kukersite), peat, phosphorite, amber, cambrian
  blue clay, limestone, dolomite, arable land

Ethiopia:
  small reserves of gold, platinum, copper, potash, natural
  gas, hydropower

Europa Island:
  NEGL

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas):
  fish, wildlife

Faroe Islands:
  fish, whales, hydropower

Fiji:
  timber, fish, gold, copper, offshore oil potential, hydropower

Finland:
  timber, copper, zinc, iron ore, silver

France:
  coal, iron ore, bauxite, zinc, potash, timber, fish

French Guiana:
  bauxite, timber, gold (widely scattered), cinnabar,
  kaolin, fish

French Polynesia:
  timber, fish, cobalt, hydropower

French Southern and Antarctic Lands:
  fish, crayfish

Gabon:
  petroleum, manganese, uranium, gold, timber, iron ore,
  hydropower

Gambia, The:
  fish

Gaza Strip:
  arable land, natural gas

Georgia:
  forests, hydropower, manganese deposits, iron ore, copper,
  minor coal and oil deposits; coastal climate and soils allow for
  important tea and citrus growth

Germany:
  iron ore, coal, potash, timber, lignite, uranium, copper,
  natural gas, salt, nickel, arable land

Ghana:
  gold, timber, industrial diamonds, bauxite, manganese, fish,
  rubber, hydropower

Gibraltar:
  NEGL

Glorioso Islands:
  guano, coconuts

Greece:
  bauxite, lignite, magnesite, petroleum, marble, hydropower
  potential

Greenland:
  zinc, lead, iron ore, coal, molybdenum, gold, platinum,
  uranium, fish, seals, whales, hydropower, possible oil and gas

Grenada:
  timber, tropical fruit, deepwater harbors

Guadeloupe:
  cultivable land, beaches and climate that foster tourism

Guam:
  fishing (largely undeveloped), tourism (especially from Japan)

Guatemala:
  petroleum, nickel, rare woods, fish, chicle, hydropower

Guernsey:
  cropland

Guinea:
  bauxite, iron ore, diamonds, gold, uranium, hydropower, fish

Guinea-Bissau:
  fish, timber, phosphates, bauxite, unexploited
  deposits of petroleum

Guyana:
  bauxite, gold, diamonds, hardwood timber, shrimp, fish

Haiti:
  bauxite, copper, calcium carbonate, gold, marble, hydropower

Heard Island and McDonald Islands:
  none

Holy See (Vatican City):
  none

Honduras:
  timber, gold, silver, copper, lead, zinc, iron ore,
  antimony, coal, fish, hydropower

Hong Kong:
  outstanding deepwater harbor, feldspar

Howland Island:
  guano (deposits worked until late 1800s),
  terrestrial and aquatic wildlife

Hungary:
  bauxite, coal, natural gas, fertile soils, arable land

Iceland:
  fish, hydropower, geothermal power, diatomite

India:
  coal (fourth-largest reserves in the world), iron ore,
  manganese, mica, bauxite, titanium ore, chromite, natural gas,
  diamonds, petroleum, limestone, arable land

Indian Ocean:
  oil and gas fields, fish, shrimp, sand and gravel
  aggregates, placer deposits, polymetallic nodules

Indonesia:
  petroleum, tin, natural gas, nickel, timber, bauxite,
  copper, fertile soils, coal, gold, silver

Iran:
  petroleum, natural gas, coal, chromium, copper, iron ore,
  lead, manganese, zinc, sulfur

Iraq:
  petroleum, natural gas, phosphates, sulfur

Ireland:
  zinc, lead, natural gas, barite, copper, gypsum, limestone,
  dolomite, peat, silver

Israel:
  timber, potash, copper ore, natural gas, phosphate rock,
  magnesium bromide, clays, sand, oil

Italy:
  mercury, potash, marble, sulfur, natural gas and crude oil
  reserves, fish, coal, arable land

Jamaica:
  bauxite, gypsum, limestone

Jan Mayen:
  none

Japan:
  negligible mineral resources, fish

Jarvis Island:
  guano (deposits worked until late 1800s), terrestrial
  and aquatic wildlife

Jersey:
  arable land

Johnston Atoll:
  guano deposits worked until depletion about 1890,
  terrestrial and aquatic wildlife

Jordan:
  phosphates, potash, shale oil

Juan de Nova Island:
  guano deposits and other fertilizers

Kazakhstan:
  major deposits of petroleum, natural gas, coal, iron
  ore, manganese, chrome ore, nickel, cobalt, copper, molybdenum,
  lead, zinc, bauxite, gold, uranium

Kenya:
  gold, limestone, soda ash, salt barites, rubies, fluorspar,
  garnets, wildlife, hydropower

Kingman Reef:
  terrestrial and aquatic wildlife

Kiribati:
  phosphate (production discontinued in 1979)

Korea, North:
  coal, lead, tungsten, zinc, graphite, magnesite, iron
  ore, copper, gold, pyrites, salt, fluorspar, hydropower

Korea, South:
  coal, tungsten, graphite, molybdenum, lead, hydropower
  potential

Kuwait:
  petroleum, fish, shrimp, natural gas

Kyrgyzstan:
  abundant hydropower; significant deposits of gold and
  rare earth metals; locally exploitable coal, oil, and natural gas;
  other deposits of nepheline, mercury, bismuth, lead, and zinc

Laos:
  timber, hydropower, gypsum, tin, gold, gemstones

Latvia:
  minimal; amber, peat, limestone, dolomite, hydropower,
  arable land

Lebanon:
  limestone, iron ore, salt, water-surplus state in a
  water-deficit region, arable land

Lesotho:
  water, agricultural and grazing land, some diamonds and
  other minerals

Liberia:
  iron ore, timber, diamonds, gold, hydropower

Libya:
  petroleum, natural gas, gypsum

Liechtenstein:
  hydroelectric potential, arable land

Lithuania:
  peat, arable land

Luxembourg:
  iron ore (no longer exploited), arable land

Macau:
  NEGL

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  chromium, lead, zinc,
  manganese, tungsten, nickel, low-grade iron ore, asbestos, sulfur,
  timber, arable land

Madagascar:
  graphite, chromite, coal, bauxite, salt, quartz, tar
  sands, semiprecious stones, mica, fish, hydropower

Malawi:
  limestone, arable land, hydropower, unexploited deposits of
  uranium, coal, and bauxite

Malaysia:
  tin, petroleum, timber, copper, iron ore, natural gas,
  bauxite

Maldives:
  fish

Mali:
  gold, phosphates, kaolin, salt, limestone, uranium, hydropower

  note:  bauxite, iron ore, manganese, tin, and copper deposits are
  known but not exploited

Malta:
  limestone, salt, arable land

Man, Isle of:
  none

Marshall Islands:
  phosphate deposits, marine products, deep seabed
  minerals

Martinique:
  coastal scenery and beaches, cultivable land

Mauritania:
  iron ore, gypsum, fish, copper, phosphate, diamonds, gold

Mauritius:
  arable land, fish

Mayotte:
  NEGL

Mexico:
  petroleum, silver, copper, gold, lead, zinc, natural gas,
  timber

Micronesia, Federated States of:
  forests, marine products,
  deep-seabed minerals

Midway Islands:
  wildlife, terrestrial and aquatic

Moldova:
  lignite, phosphorites, gypsum, arable land

Monaco:
  none

Mongolia:
  oil, coal, copper, molybdenum, tungsten, phosphates, tin,
  nickel, zinc, wolfram, fluorspar, gold, silver, iron, phosphate

Montserrat:
  NEGL

Morocco:
  phosphates, iron ore, manganese, lead, zinc, fish, salt

Mozambique:
  coal, titanium, natural gas, hydropower, tantalum,
  graphite

Namibia:
  diamonds, copper, uranium, gold, lead, tin, lithium,
  cadmium, zinc, salt, vanadium, natural gas, hydropower, fish

  note:  suspected deposits of oil, coal, and iron ore

Nauru:
  phosphates

Navassa Island:
  guano

Nepal:
  quartz, water, timber, hydropower, scenic beauty, small
  deposits of lignite, copper, cobalt, iron ore

Netherlands:
  natural gas, petroleum, arable land

Netherlands Antilles:
  phosphates (Curacao only), salt (Bonaire only)

New Caledonia:
  nickel, chrome, iron, cobalt, manganese, silver,
  gold, lead, copper

New Zealand:
  natural gas, iron ore, sand, coal, timber, hydropower,
  gold, limestone

Nicaragua:
  gold, silver, copper, tungsten, lead, zinc, timber, fish

Niger:
  uranium, coal, iron ore, tin, phosphates, gold, petroleum

Nigeria:
  natural gas, petroleum, tin, columbite, iron ore, coal,
  limestone, lead, zinc, arable land

Niue:
  fish, arable land

Norfolk Island:
  fish

Northern Mariana Islands:
  arable land, fish

Norway:
  petroleum, copper, natural gas, pyrites, nickel, iron ore,
  zinc, lead, fish, timber, hydropower

Oman:
  petroleum, copper, asbestos, some marble, limestone, chromium,
  gypsum, natural gas

Pacific Ocean:
  oil and gas fields, polymetallic nodules, sand and
  gravel aggregates, placer deposits, fish

Pakistan:
  land, extensive natural gas reserves, limited petroleum,
  poor quality coal, iron ore, copper, salt, limestone

Palau:
  forests, minerals (especially gold), marine products,
  deep-seabed minerals

Palmyra Atoll:
  terrestrial and aquatic wildlife

Panama:
  copper, mahogany forests, shrimp, hydropower

Papua New Guinea:
  gold, copper, silver, natural gas, timber, oil,
  fisheries

Paracel Islands:
  none

Paraguay:
  hydropower, timber, iron ore, manganese, limestone

Peru:
  copper, silver, gold, petroleum, timber, fish, iron ore, coal,
  phosphate, potash, hydropower

Philippines:
  timber, petroleum, nickel, cobalt, silver, gold, salt,
  copper

Pitcairn Islands:
  miro trees (used for handicrafts), fish

  note:  manganese, iron, copper, gold, silver, and zinc have been
  discovered offshore

Poland:
  coal, sulfur, copper, natural gas, silver, lead, salt,
  arable land

Portugal:
  fish, forests (cork), tungsten, iron ore, uranium ore,
  marble, arable land, hydro power

Puerto Rico:
  some copper and nickel; potential for onshore and
  offshore oil

Qatar:
  petroleum, natural gas, fish

Reunion:
  fish, arable land, hydropower

Romania:
  petroleum (reserves declining), timber, natural gas, coal,
  iron ore, salt, arable land, hydropower

Russia:
  wide natural resource base including major deposits of oil,
  natural gas, coal, and many strategic minerals, timber

  note:  formidable obstacles of climate, terrain, and distance hinder
  exploitation of natural resources

Rwanda:
  gold, cassiterite (tin ore), wolframite (tungsten ore),
  methane, hydropower, arable land

Saint Helena:
  fish

Saint Kitts and Nevis:
  arable land

Saint Lucia:
  forests, sandy beaches, minerals (pumice), mineral
  springs, geothermal potential

Saint Pierre and Miquelon:
  fish, deepwater ports

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:
  hydropower, cropland

Samoa:
  hardwood forests, fish, hydropower

San Marino:
  building stone

Sao Tome and Principe:
  fish, hydropower

Saudi Arabia:
  petroleum, natural gas, iron ore, gold, copper

Senegal:
  fish, phosphates, iron ore

Seychelles:
  fish, copra, cinnamon trees

Sierra Leone:
  diamonds, titanium ore, bauxite, iron ore, gold,
  chromite

Singapore:
  fish, deepwater ports

Slovakia:
  brown coal and lignite; small amounts of iron ore, copper
  and manganese ore; salt; arable land

Slovenia:
  lignite coal, lead, zinc, mercury, uranium, silver,
  hydropower

Solomon Islands:
  fish, forests, gold, bauxite, phosphates, lead,
  zinc, nickel

Somalia:
  uranium and largely unexploited reserves of iron ore, tin,
  gypsum, bauxite, copper, salt

South Africa:
  gold, chromium, antimony, coal, iron ore, manganese,
  nickel, phosphates, tin, uranium, gem diamonds, platinum, copper,
  vanadium, salt, natural gas

South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands:
  fish

Southern Ocean:
  probable large and possible giant oil and gas fields
  on the continental margin, manganese nodules, possible placer
  deposits, sand and gravel, fresh water as icebergs, squid, whales,
  and seals - none exploited; krill, fishes

Spain:
  coal, lignite, iron ore, uranium, mercury, pyrites,
  fluorspar, gypsum, zinc, lead, tungsten, copper, kaolin, potash,
  hydropower, arable land

Spratly Islands:
  fish, guano, undetermined oil and natural gas
  potential

Sri Lanka:
  limestone, graphite, mineral sands, gems, phosphates,
  clay, hydropower

Sudan:
  petroleum; small reserves of iron ore, copper, chromium ore,
  zinc, tungsten, mica, silver, gold, hydropower

Suriname:
  timber, hydropower, fish, kaolin, shrimp, bauxite, gold,
  and small amounts of nickel, copper, platinum, iron ore

Svalbard:
  coal, copper, iron ore, phosphate, zinc, wildlife, fish

Swaziland:
  asbestos, coal, clay, cassiterite, hydropower, forests,
  small gold and diamond deposits, quarry stone, and talc

Sweden:
  zinc, iron ore, lead, copper, silver, timber, uranium,
  hydropower

Switzerland:
  hydropower potential, timber, salt

Syria:
  petroleum, phosphates, chrome and manganese ores, asphalt,
  iron ore, rock salt, marble, gypsum, hydropower

Tajikistan:
  hydropower, some petroleum, uranium, mercury, brown
  coal, lead, zinc, antimony, tungsten, silver, gold

Tanzania:
  hydropower, tin, phosphates, iron ore, coal, diamonds,
  gemstones, gold, natural gas, nickel

Thailand:
  tin, rubber, natural gas, tungsten, tantalum, timber,
  lead, fish, gypsum, lignite, fluorite, arable land

Togo:
  phosphates, limestone, marble, arable land

Tokelau:
  NEGL

Tonga:
  fish, fertile soil

Trinidad and Tobago:
  petroleum, natural gas, asphalt

Tromelin Island:
  fish

Tunisia:
  petroleum, phosphates, iron ore, lead, zinc, salt

Turkey:
  antimony, coal, chromium, mercury, copper, borate, sulfur,
  iron ore, arable land, hydropower

Turkmenistan:
  petroleum, natural gas, coal, sulfur, salt

Turks and Caicos Islands:
  spiny lobster, conch

Tuvalu:
  fish

Uganda:
  copper, cobalt, hydropower, limestone, salt, arable land

Ukraine:
  iron ore, coal, manganese, natural gas, oil, salt, sulfur,
  graphite, titanium, magnesium, kaolin, nickel, mercury, timber,
  arable land

United Arab Emirates:
  petroleum, natural gas

United Kingdom:
  coal, petroleum, natural gas, tin, limestone, iron
  ore, salt, clay, chalk, gypsum, lead, silica, arable land

United States:
  coal, copper, lead, molybdenum, phosphates, uranium,
  bauxite, gold, iron, mercury, nickel, potash, silver, tungsten,
  zinc, petroleum, natural gas, timber

Uruguay:
  arable land, hydropower, minor minerals, fisheries

Uzbekistan:
  natural gas, petroleum, coal, gold, uranium, silver,
  copper, lead and zinc, tungsten, molybdenum

Vanuatu:
  manganese, hardwood forests, fish

Venezuela:
  petroleum, natural gas, iron ore, gold, bauxite, other
  minerals, hydropower, diamonds

Vietnam:
  phosphates, coal, manganese, bauxite, chromate, offshore
  oil and gas deposits, forests, hydropower

Virgin Islands:
  sun, sand, sea, surf

Wake Island:
  none

Wallis and Futuna:
  NEGL

West Bank:
  arable land

Western Sahara:
  phosphates, iron ore

World:
  the rapid using up of nonrenewable mineral resources, the
  depletion of forest areas and wetlands, the extinction of animal and
  plant species, and the deterioration in air and water quality
  (especially in Eastern Europe, the former USSR, and China) pose
  serious long-term problems that governments and peoples are only
  beginning to address

Yemen:
  petroleum, fish, rock salt, marble, small deposits of coal,
  gold, lead, nickel, and copper, fertile soil in west

Yugoslavia:
  oil, gas, coal, antimony, copper, lead, zinc, nickel,
  gold, pyrite, chrome, hydropower, arable land

Zambia:
  copper, cobalt, zinc, lead, coal, emeralds, gold, silver,
  uranium, hydropower

Zimbabwe:
  coal, chromium ore, asbestos, gold, nickel, copper, iron
  ore, vanadium, lithium, tin, platinum group metals

Taiwan:
  small deposits of coal, natural gas, limestone, marble, and
  asbestos

======================================================================

@Net migration rate



Afghanistan:
  11.11 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Albania:
  -3.69 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Algeria:
  -0.45 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

American Samoa:
  3.58 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Andorra:
  6.82 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Angola:
  -0.34 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Anguilla:
  17.23 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Antigua and Barbuda:
  -6.27 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Argentina:
  0.64 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Armenia:
  -3.87 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Aruba:
  NEGL

Australia:
  4.19 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Austria:
  2.45 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Azerbaijan:
  -5.67 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Bahamas, The:
  -2.65 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Bahrain:
  1.1 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Bangladesh:
  -0.76 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Barbados:
  -0.32 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Belarus:
  2.89 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Belgium:
  0.97 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Belize:
  0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Benin:
  0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Bermuda:
  2.66 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Bhutan:
  0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Bolivia:
  -1.45 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  8.91 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Botswana:
  0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Brazil:
  -0.03 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

British Virgin Islands:
  11.39 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Brunei:
  4.07 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Bulgaria:
  -4.9 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Burkina Faso:
  -0.97 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Burma:
  -1.84 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Burundi:
  0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Cambodia:
  0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Cameroon:
  0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.) NA
  migrant(s)/1,000 population

Canada:
  6.13 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Cape Verde:
  -12.37 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Cayman Islands:
  12.58 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

  note:  major destination for Cubans trying to migrate to the US

Central African Republic:
  0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Chad:
  0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Chile:
  0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

China:
  -0.39 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Christmas Island:
  NA migrant(s)/1,000 population

Cocos (Keeling) Islands:
  NA migrant(s)/1,000 population

Colombia:
  -0.33 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Comoros:
  NEGL migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  0.14 migrant(s)/1,000 population
  (2001 est.)

  note:  one million refugees fled into Zaire (now called the
  Democratic Republic of the Congo or DROC) in 1994 to escape the
  fighting between the Hutus and the Tutsis; fighting in the DROC
  between rebels and government forces in October 1996 caused 875,000
  refugees to return to Rwanda in late 1996 and early 1997; an
  additional 173,000 Rwandan refugees disappeared in early 1997 and
  are assumed to have been killed by Zairian forces; fighting between
  the Congolese government and Uganda- and Rwanda-backed Congolese
  rebels spawned a regional war in DROC in August 1998, which left 1.8
  million Congolese displaced in DROC and caused 300,000 Congolese
  refugees to flee to surrounding countries

Congo, Republic of the:
  0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Costa Rica:
  0.53 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Cote d'Ivoire:
  1.4 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

  note:  after Liberia's civil war started in 1990, more than 350,000
  refugees fled to Cote d'Ivoire; by the end of 1999 most Liberian
  refugees were assumed to have returned

Croatia:
  13.37 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Cuba:
  -1.36 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Cyprus:
  0.44 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Czech Republic:
  0.96 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Denmark:
  1.98 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Djibouti:
  0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Dominica:
  -20.37 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Dominican Republic:
  -3.81 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Ecuador:
  -0.55 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Egypt:
  -0.24 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

El Salvador:
  -3.95 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Equatorial Guinea:
  NEGL migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Eritrea:
  7.91 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

  note:  according to the UNHCR, about 150,000 Eritrean refugees in
  Sudan have registered for voluntary repatriation, following the
  restoration of diplomatic relations between Eritrea and Sudan in
  January 2000

Estonia:
  -0.76 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Ethiopia:
  0.13 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

  note:  repatriation of Ethiopians who fled to Sudan for refuge from
  war and famine in earlier years is expected to continue for several
  years; small numbers of Sudanese and Somali refugees, who fled to
  Ethiopia from the fighting or famine in their own countries,
  continue to return to their homes

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas):
  NA migrant(s)/1,000 population

Faroe Islands:
  2.89 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Fiji:
  -3.45 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Finland:
  0.61 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

France:
  0.64 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

French Guiana:
  10.14 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

French Polynesia:
  3.09 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Gabon:
  0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Gambia, The:
  2.59 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Gaza Strip:
  1.8 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Georgia:
  -2.48 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Germany:
  4 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Ghana:
  -0.83 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Gibraltar:
  NEGL migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Greece:
  1.96 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Greenland:
  -8.38 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Grenada:
  -15.86 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Guadeloupe:
  -0.15 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Guam:
  0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Guatemala:
  -1.84 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Guernsey:
  3.89 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Guinea:
  -2.63 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

  note:  as a result of civil war in neighboring countries, Guinea is
  host to almost half a million Liberian and Sierra Leonean refugees

Guinea-Bissau:
  -1.66 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Guyana:
  -8.38 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Haiti:
  -2.64 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Honduras:
  -2.12 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Hong Kong:
  7.9 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Hungary:
  0.74 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Iceland:
  -2.28 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

India:
  -0.08 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Indonesia:
  0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Iran:
  -4.51 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Iraq:
  0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Ireland:
  4.69 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Israel:
  2.85 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Italy:
  1.73 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Jamaica:
  -7.52 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Japan:
  0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Jersey:
  2.8 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Jordan:
  7.18 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Kazakhstan:
  -6.43 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Kenya:
  -1.5 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

  note:  according to UNHCR, by the end of 1999 Kenya was host to
  223,700 refugees from neighboring countries, including: Somalia
  141,000 and Sudan 64,250

Kiribati:
  0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Korea, North:
  0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Korea, South:
  0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Kuwait:
  14.31 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Kyrgyzstan:
  -2.66 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Laos:
  0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Latvia:
  -1.27 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Lebanon:
  0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Lesotho:
  -0.63 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Liberia:
  -11 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

  note:  by the end of 1999, all Liberian refugees, who had fled the
  domestic strife, were assumed to have returned

Libya:
  0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Liechtenstein:
  4.98 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Lithuania:
  0.15 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Luxembourg:
  9.26 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Macau:
  9.25 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  -1.54 migrant(s)/1,000
  population (2001 est.)

Madagascar:
  0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Malawi:
  0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Malaysia:
  0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

  note:  does not reflect net flow of an unknown number of illegal
  immigrants from other countries in the region

Maldives:
  0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Mali:
  -0.36 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Malta:
  2.37 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Man, Isle of:
  5.44 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Marshall Islands:
  0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Martinique:
  -0.08 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Mauritania:
  0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Mauritius:
  -0.92 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Mayotte:
  10.28 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Mexico:
  -2.77 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Moldova:
  -0.3 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Monaco:
  7.85 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Mongolia:
  0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Montserrat:
  123.98 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Morocco:
  -1.15 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Mozambique:
  0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Namibia:
  0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Nauru:
  0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Nepal:
  0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Netherlands:
  2.34 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Netherlands Antilles:
  -0.42 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

New Caledonia:
  0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

New Zealand:
  4.71 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Nicaragua:
  -1.33 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Niger:
  -0.73 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Nigeria:
  0.28 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Niue:
  NA migrant(s)/1,000 population

Norfolk Island:
  NA migrant(s)/1,000 population

Northern Mariana Islands:
  18 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Norway:
  2.11 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Oman:
  0.48 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Pakistan:
  -0.84 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Palau:
  4.45 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Panama:
  -1.1 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Papua New Guinea:
  0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Paraguay:
  -0.09 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Peru:
  -1.08 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Philippines:
  -1.01 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Pitcairn Islands:
  NA migrant(s)/1,000 population

Poland:
  -0.49 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Portugal:
  0.5 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Puerto Rico:
  -2.13 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Qatar:
  20.12 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Reunion:
  0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Romania:
  -0.6 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Russia:
  0.98 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Rwanda:
  -1.21 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Saint Helena:
  0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Saint Kitts and Nevis:
  -10.68 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Saint Lucia:
  -4.15 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Saint Pierre and Miquelon:
  -4.91 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001
  est.)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:
  -7.72 migrant(s)/1,000 population
  (2001 est.)

Samoa:
  -11.62 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

San Marino:
  11.45 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sao Tome and Principe:
  -3.38 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Saudi Arabia:
  1.32 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Senegal:
  0.21 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Seychelles:
  -6.15 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sierra Leone:
  10.23 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

  note:  by the end of 1999 refugees from Sierra Leone are assumed to
  be returning

Singapore:
  26.45 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Slovakia:
  0.53 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Slovenia:
  2.11 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Solomon Islands:
  0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Somalia:
  5.96 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

South Africa:
  -1.73 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Spain:
  0.87 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sri Lanka:
  -1.43 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sudan:
  0.04 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Suriname:
  -8.87 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Svalbard:
  NA migrant(s)/1,000 population

Swaziland:
  0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Sweden:
  0.91 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Switzerland:
  1.37 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Syria:
  0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Tajikistan:
  -3.49 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Tanzania:
  -0.64 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Thailand:
  0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Togo:
  0.15 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Tokelau:
  NA migrant(s)/1,000 population

Tonga:
  0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Trinidad and Tobago:
  -9.97 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Tunisia:
  -0.67 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Turkey:
  0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Turkmenistan:
  -1.04 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Turks and Caicos Islands:
  13.69 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001
  est.)

Tuvalu:
  0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Uganda:
  -0.29 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

  note:  according to the UNHCR, by the end of 1999, Uganda was host
  to 218,000 refugees from a number of neighboring countries,
  including: Sudan 200,600, Rwanda 8,000, and Democratic Republic of
  the Congo 8,000

Ukraine:
  -0.63 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

United Arab Emirates:
  1.61 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

United Kingdom:
  1.07 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

United States:
  3.5 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Uruguay:
  -0.51 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Uzbekistan:
  -2.06 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Vanuatu:
  0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Venezuela:
  -0.15 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Vietnam:
  -0.49 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Virgin Islands:
  0.12 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Wallis and Futuna:
  NA migrant(s)/1,000 population

West Bank:
  3.29 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Yemen:
  0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Yugoslavia:
  -4.71 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Zambia:
  -0.16 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

Zimbabwe:
  0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

  note:  there is a small but steady flow of Zimbabweans into South
  Africa in search of better paid employment

Taiwan:
  -0.34 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2001 est.)

======================================================================

@People - note



Cuba:
  illicit migration is a continuing problem; Cubans attempt to
  depart the island and enter the US using homemade rafts, alien
  smugglers, direct flights, or falsified visas; some 3,000 Cubans
  took to the Straits of Florida in 2000; the US Coast Guard
  interdicted about 35% of these migrants; Cubans also use
  non-maritime routes to enter the US; some 2,400 Cubans arrived
  overland via the southwest border and direct flights to Miami

======================================================================

@Pipelines



Afghanistan:
  petroleum products - Uzbekistan to Bagram and
  Turkmenistan to Shindand; natural gas 180 km

Albania:
  crude oil 145 km; petroleum products 55 km; natural gas 64
  km (1991)

Algeria:
  crude oil 6,612 km; petroleum products 298 km; natural gas
  2,948 km

Angola:
  crude oil 179 km

Argentina:
  crude oil 4,090 km; petroleum products 2,900 km; natural
  gas 9,918 km

Armenia:
  natural gas 900 km (1991)

Australia:
  crude oil 2,500 km; petroleum products 500 km; natural
  gas 5,600 km

Austria:
  crude oil 777 km; natural gas 840 km (1999)

Azerbaijan:
  crude oil 1,130 km; petroleum products 630 km; natural
  gas 1,240 km

Bahrain:
  crude oil 56 km; petroleum products 16 km; natural gas 32 km

Bangladesh:
  natural gas 1,250 km

Belarus:
  crude oil 1,470 km; refined products 1,100 km; natural gas
  1,980 km (1992)

Belgium:
  crude oil 161 km; petroleum products 1,167 km; natural gas
  3,300 km

Bolivia:
  crude oil 1,800 km; petroleum products 580 km; natural gas
  1,495 km

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  crude oil 174 km; natural gas 90 km (1992)

Brazil:
  crude oil 2,980 km; petroleum products 4,762 km; natural gas
  4,246 km (1998)

Brunei:
  crude oil 135 km; petroleum products 418 km; natural gas 920
  km

Bulgaria:
  petroleum products 525 km; natural gas 1,500 km (1999)

Burma:
  crude oil 1,343 km; natural gas 330 km

Canada:
  crude and refined oil 23,564 km; natural gas 74,980 km

Chile:
  crude oil 755 km; petroleum products 785 km; natural gas 320
  km

China:
  crude oil 9,070 km; petroleum products 560 km; natural gas
  9,383 km (1998)

Colombia:
  crude oil 3,585 km; petroleum products 1,350 km; natural
  gas 830 km; natural gas liquids 125 km

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  petroleum products 390 km

Congo, Republic of the:
  crude oil 25 km

Costa Rica:
  petroleum products 176 km

Croatia:
  crude oil 670 km; petroleum products 20 km; natural gas 310
  km (1992)

Czech Republic:
  natural gas 3,550 km (2000)

Denmark:
  crude oil 110 km; petroleum products 578 km; natural gas
  700 km

Dominican Republic:
  crude oil 96 km; petroleum products 8 km

Ecuador:
  crude oil 800 km; petroleum products 1,358 km

Egypt:
  crude oil 1,171 km; petroleum products 596 km; natural gas
  460 km

Estonia:
  natural gas 420 km (1992)

Finland:
  natural gas 580 km

France:
  crude oil 3,059 km; petroleum products 4,487 km; natural gas
  24,746 km

Gabon:
  crude oil 270 km; petroleum products 14 km

Georgia:
  crude oil 370 km; refined products 300 km; natural gas 440
  km (1992)

Germany:
  crude oil 2,500 km (1998)

Ghana:
  0 km

Gibraltar:
  0 km

Greece:
  crude oil 26 km; petroleum products 547 km

Guatemala:
  crude oil 275 km

Hungary:
  crude oil 1,204 km; natural gas 4,387 km (1991)

India:
  crude oil 3,005 km; petroleum products 2,687 km; natural gas
  1,700 km (1995)

Indonesia:
  crude oil 2,505 km; petroleum products 456 km; natural
  gas 1,703 km (1989)

Iran:
  crude oil 5,900 km; petroleum products 3,900 km; natural gas
  4,550 km

Iraq:
  crude oil 4,350 km; petroleum products 725 km; natural gas
  1,360 km

Ireland:
  natural gas 7,592 km (transmission 1,158 km; distribution
  6,434 km) (2000)

Israel:
  crude oil 708 km; petroleum products 290 km; natural gas 89
  km

Italy:
  crude oil 1,703 km; petroleum products 2,148 km; natural gas
  19,400 km

Jamaica:
  petroleum products 10 km

Japan:
  crude oil 84 km; petroleum products 322 km; natural gas 1,800
  km

Jordan:
  crude oil 209 km; note - may not be in use

Kazakhstan:
  crude oil 2,850 km; refined products 1,500 km; natural
  gas 3,480 km (1992)

Kenya:
  petroleum products 483 km

Korea, North:
  crude oil 37 km; petroleum product 180 km

Korea, South:
  petroleum products 455 km; note - additionally, there
  is a parallel petroleum, oils, and lubricants (POL) pipeline being
  completed

Kuwait:
  crude oil 877 km; petroleum products 40 km; natural gas 165
  km

Kyrgyzstan:
  natural gas 200 km

Laos:
  petroleum products 136 km

Latvia:
  crude oil 750 km; refined products 780 km; natural gas 560
  km (1992)

Lebanon:
  crude oil 72 km (none in operation)

Libya:
  crude oil 4,383 km; petroleum products 443 km (includes
  liquefied petroleum gas or LPG 256 km); natural gas 1,947 km

Lithuania:
  crude oil, 105 km; natural gas 760 km (1992)

Luxembourg:
  petroleum products 48 km

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  10 km

Malaysia:
  crude oil 1,307 km; natural gas 379 km

Mexico:
  crude oil 28,200 km; petroleum products 10,150 km; natural
  gas 13,254 km; petrochemical 1,400 km

Midway Islands:
  7.8 km

Moldova:
  natural gas 310 km (1992)

Morocco:
  crude oil 362 km; petroleum products 491 km (abandoned);
  natural gas 241 km

Mozambique:
  crude oil 306 km; petroleum products 289 km

  note:  not operating

Netherlands:
  crude oil 418 km; petroleum products 965 km; natural
  gas 10,230 km

New Zealand:
  petroleum products 160 km; natural gas 1,000 km;
  liquefied petroleum gas or LPG 150 km

Nicaragua:
  crude oil 56 km

Nigeria:
  crude oil 2,042 km; petroleum products 3,000 km; natural
  gas 500 km

Norway:
  refined petroleum products 53 km

Oman:
  crude oil 1,300 km; natural gas 1,030 km

Pakistan:
  crude oil 250 km; petroleum products 885 km; natural gas
  4,044 km (1987)

Panama:
  crude oil 130 km (2001)

Peru:
  crude oil 800 km; natural gas and natural gas liquids 64 km

Philippines:
  petroleum products 357 km

Poland:
  crude oil and petroleum products 2,280 km; natural gas
  17,000 km (1996)

Portugal:
  crude oil 22 km; petroleum products 58 km; natural gas 700
  km

  note:  the secondary lines for the natural gas pipeline that will be
  300 km long have not yet been built

Qatar:
  crude oil 235 km; natural gas 400 km

Romania:
  crude oil 2,800 km; petroleum products 1,429 km; natural
  gas 6,400 km (1992)

Russia:
  crude oil 48,000 km; petroleum products 15,000 km; natural
  gas 140,000 km (June 1993 est.)

Saudi Arabia:
  crude oil 6,400 km; petroleum products 150 km; natural
  gas 2,200 km (includes natural gas liquids 1,600 km)

Slovakia:
  petroleum products NA km; natural gas 2,700 km

Slovenia:
  crude oil 290 km; natural gas 305 km

Somalia:
  crude oil 15 km

South Africa:
  crude oil 931 km; petroleum products 1,748 km; natural
  gas 322 km

Spain:
  crude oil 265 km; petroleum products 1,794 km; natural gas
  1,666 km

Sri Lanka:
  crude oil and petroleum products 62 km (1987)

Sudan:
  refined products 815 km

Sweden:
  natural gas 84 km

Switzerland:
  crude oil 314 km; natural gas 1,506 km

Syria:
  crude oil 1,304 km; petroleum products 515 km

Tajikistan:
  natural gas 400 km (1992)

Tanzania:
  crude oil 982 km

Thailand:
  petroleum products 67 km; natural gas 350 km

Trinidad and Tobago:
  crude oil 1,032 km; petroleum products 19 km;
  natural gas 904 km

Tunisia:
  crude oil 797 km; petroleum products 86 km; natural gas 742
  km

Turkey:
  crude oil 1,738 km; petroleum products 2,321 km; natural gas
  708 km

Turkmenistan:
  crude oil 250 km; natural gas 4,400 km

Ukraine:
  crude oil 4,000 km (1995); petroleum products 4,500 km
  (1995); natural gas 34,400 km (1998)

United Arab Emirates:
  crude oil 830 km; natural gas, including
  natural gas liquids, 870 km

United Kingdom:
  crude oil (almost all insignificant) 933 km;
  petroleum products 2,993 km; natural gas 12,800 km

United States:
  petroleum products 276,000 km; natural gas 331,000 km
  (1991)

Uzbekistan:
  crude oil 250 km; petroleum products 40 km; natural gas
  810 km (1992)

Venezuela:
  crude oil 6,370 km; petroleum products 480 km; natural
  gas 4,010 km

Vietnam:
  petroleum products 150 km

Yemen:
  crude oil 644 km; petroleum products 32 km

Yugoslavia:
  crude oil 415 km; petroleum products 130 km; natural gas
  2,110 km

Zambia:
  crude oil 1,724 km

Zimbabwe:
  petroleum products 212 km

Taiwan:
  petroleum products 3,400 km; natural gas 1,800 km (1999)

======================================================================

@Political parties and leaders



Afghanistan:
  Taliban (Religious Students Movement) [Mullah Mohammad
  OMAR]; United National Islamic Front for the Salvation of
  Afghanistan or UNIFSA [Burhanuddin RABBANI, chairman; Gen. Abdul
  Rashid DOSTAM, vice chairman; Ahmad Shah MASOOD, military commander;
  Mohammed Yunis QANUNI, spokesman]; note - made up of 13 parties
  opposed to the Taliban including Harakat-i-Islami Afghanistan
  (Islamic Movement of Afghanistan), Hizb-i-Islami (Islamic Party),
  Hizb-i-Wahdat-i-Islami (Islamic Unity Party), Jumaat-i-Islami
  Afghanistan (Islamic Afghan Society), Jumbish-i-Milli (National
  Front), Mahaz-i-Milli-i-Islami (National Islamic Front)

Albania:
  Albanian National Front (Balli Kombetar) or PBK [Abaz
  ERMENJI]; Albanian Republican Party or PR [Fatmir MEDIU]; Albanian
  Socialist Party or PS (formerly the Albania Workers Party) [Fatos
  NANO, chairman]; Christian Democratic Party or PDK [Zef BUSHATI];
  Democratic Alliance or PAD [Neritan CEKA]; Democratic Party or PD
  [Sali BERISHA]; Group of Reformist Democrats [Leonard NDOKA];
  Liberal Union Party [Teodor LACO]; note - Teodor LACO of the Liberal
  Union Party was leader of the Social Democratic Union of Albania or
  PBSD; Movement of Legality Party or PLL [Nderim KUPI]; OMONIA
  [Vagjelis DULES]; Party of National Unity or PUK [Idajet BEQUIRI];
  Social Democratic Party or PSD [Skender GJINUSHI]; Unity for Human
  Rights Party or PBDNJ [Vasil MELO, chairman]

Algeria:
  Democratic National Rally or RND [Ahmed OUYAHIA, chairman];
  Islamic Salvation Front or FIS (outlawed April 1992) [Ali BELHADJ
  and Dr. Abassi MADANI (imprisoned), Rabeh KEBIR (self-exile in
  Germany)]; Movement of a Peaceful Society or MSP [Mahfoud NAHNAH,
  chairman]; National Liberation Front or FLN [Boualem BENHAMOUDA,
  secretary general]; Progressive Republican Party [Khadir DRISS];
  Rally for Culture and Democracy or RCD [Said SAADI, secretary
  general]; Renaissance Movement or EnNahda Movement [Lahbib ADAMI];
  Social Liberal Party or PSL [Ahmed KHELIL]; Socialist Forces Front
  or FFS [Hocine Ait AHMED, secretary general (self-exile in
  Switzerland)]; Union for Democracy and Liberty [Mouley BOUKHALAFA];
  Workers Party or PT [Louisa HANOUN]

  note:  a party law banning political parties based on religion was
  enacted in March 1997

American Samoa:
  Democratic Party [leader NA]; Republican Party
  [leader NA]

Andorra:
  Liberal Union or UL [Marc Forne MOLNE] (renamed Liberal
  Party of Andorra or PLA); National Democratic Group or AND [Ladislau
  BARO SOLA]; National Democratic Initiative or IDN [Vincenc MATEU
  Zamora]; New Democracy or ND [Jaume BARTOMEU Cassany]; Union of the
  People of Ordino (Unio Parroquial d'Ordino) or UPO [Simo DURO Coma]

  note:  there are two other small parties

Angola:
  Liberal Democratic Party or PLD [Analia de Victoria
  PEREIRA]; National Front for the Liberation of Angola or FNLA
  [disputed leadership: Lucas NGONDA, Holden ROBERTO]; National Union
  for the Total Independence of Angola or UNITA [Jonas SAVIMBI],
  largest opposition party has engaged in years of armed resistance;
  Popular Movement for the Liberation of Angola or MPLA [Jose Eduardo
  DOS SANTOS] ruling party in power since 1975; Social Renewal Party
  or PRS [disputed leadership: Eduardo KUANGANA, Antonio MUACHICUNGO];
  UNITA-Renovada [Eugenio NGOLO "Manuvakola", leader]

  note:  about a dozen minor parties participated in the 1992
  elections but won few seats and have little influence in the
  National Assembly

Anguilla:
  Anguilla United Movement or AUM [Hubert HUGHES]; The
  United Front or UF [Osbourne FLEMMING, Victor BANKS], a coalition of
  the Anguilla Democratic Party or ADP and the Anguilla National
  Alliance or ANA

Antigua and Barbuda:
  Antigua Labor Party or ALP [Lester Bryant
  BIRD]; Barbuda People's Movement or BPM [Thomas H. FRANK]; United
  Progressive Party or UPP [Baldwin SPENCER] (a coalition of three
  opposition parties - United National Democratic Party or UNDP,
  Antigua Caribbean Liberation Movement or ACLM, and Progressive Labor
  Movement or PLM)

Argentina:
  Action for the Republic or AR [Domingo CAVALLO]; Front
  for a Country in Solidarity or Frepaso (a four-party coalition)
  [Carlos ALVAREZ]; Justicialist Party or PJ [Carlos Saul MENEM]
  (Peronist umbrella political organization); Radical Civic Union or
  UCR [Raul ALFONSIN]; several provincial parties

Armenia:
  Armenia Party [Myasnik ALKHASYAN]; Armenian Communist Party
  or ACP [Vladimir DARBINYAN]; Armenian Revolutionary Federation
  ("Dashnak" Party) or ARF [Hrant MARKARYAN]; Christian Democratic
  Union or CDU [Azat ARSHAKYN, chairman]; Democratic Liberal Party
  [Ramkavar AZATAKAN, chairman]; Free Armenian's Mission [Ruben
  MNATSANIAN, chairman]; Law and Unity Party [Artashes GEGAMIAN,
  chairman]; Law-Governed Party [Artur BAGDASARIAN, chairman]; Mission
  Party [Artush PAPOIAN, chairman]; National Democratic Union or NDU
  [Vazgen MANUKIAN]; National State Party [Samvel SHAGINIAN];
  Pan-Armenian National Movement or PANM [Vano SIRADEGHYAN]; People's
  Party of Armenia [Stepan DEMIRCHYAN]; Republican Party or RPA
  [Andranik MARKARYAN]; Shamiram Women's Movement or SWM [Gayane
  SARUKHYAN]; Social Democratic (Hnchakian) Party [Ernst SOGOMONYAN];
  Stability Group [Vartan AYVAZIAN, chairman]; Union of National
  Self-Determination or NSDU [Paruir HAIRIKIAN, chairman]; Unity Bloc
  [Stepan DEMIRCHIAN and Andranik MARKARYAN] (a coalition of the
  Republican Party and People's Party of Armenia)

Aruba:
  Aruba Solidarity Movement or MAS [leader NA]; Aruban
  Democratic Party or PDA [Leo BERLINSKI]; Aruban Liberal Party or OLA
  [Glenbert CROES]; Aruban Patriotic Party or PPA [Benny NISBET];
  Aruban People's Party or AVP [Tico CROES]; Electoral Movement Party
  or MEP [Nelson ODUBER]; For a Restructured Aruba Now or PARA [leader
  NA]; National Democratic Action or ADN [Pedro Charro KELLY]

Australia:
  Australian Democratic Party [Meg LEES]; Australian Labor
  Party [Kim BEAZLEY]; Green Party [Bob BROWN]; Liberal Party [John
  Winston HOWARD]; National Party [John ANDERSON]; One Nation Party
  [Pauline HANSON]

Austria:
  Austrian People's Party or OeVP [Wolfgang SCHUESSEL];
  Freedom Party of Austria or FPOe [Susanne RIESS-PASSER]; Social
  Democratic Party of Austria or SPOe [Alfred GUSENBAUER]; The Greens
  Alternative or GA [Alexander VAN DER BELLEN]

Azerbaijan:
  Alliance for Azerbaijan Party [Abutalyb SAMADOV];
  Azerbaijani Democratic Party or ADP [Sardar JALAL]; Azerbaijani
  Independent Democratic Party or AMDP [Leyla YUNUSOVA]; Azerbaijan
  Popular Front or APF [Ali KERIMOV, leader of "reform faction";
  Mirmahmud FATTAYEV, leader of "traditionalist" faction]; Civic
  Solidarity Party or CSP [Sabir RUSTAMKHANLY]; Civic Union Party
  [Ayaz MUTALIBOV]; Communist Party of Azerbaijan or CPA [Ramiz
  AHMADOV]; Communist Party of Azerbaijan or CPA-2 [Firudin HASANOV];
  Compatriot Party [Mais SAFARLI]; Democratic Enlightenment Party
  [Mammadhanifu MUSAYEV]; Democratic Party for Azerbaijan or DPA
  [Ilyus ISMAILOV and Rasul QULIYEV, co-chairman]; Democratic World
  Party of Azerbaijan [Mamnad ALIZADE]; Liberal Party of Azerbaijan
  [Lala Shvkat HAJIYEVA]; Motherland Party [Fazail AGAMALI]; National
  Congress Party of Azerbaijan [Ihtiyar SHIRIN]; National Movement
  Party [Samir JAFAROV]; National Statehood Party [Sabir
  TARIVERDIYEV]; Musavat [Isa GAMBAR, chairman]; New Azerbaijan Party
  or NAP [Heydar ALIYEV, chairman]; Party for National Independence of
  Azerbaijan or PNIA [Etibar MAMMADOV, chairman]; People's Democratic
  Party of Azerbaijan or PDPA [Rafig TURABKHANOGLU]; Social Democratic
  Party of Azerbaijan or SDP [Zardusht ALIZADE, chairman]

  note:  opposition parties regularly factionalize and form new parties

Bahamas, The:
  Free National Movement or FNM [Hubert Alexander
  INGRAHAM]; Progressive Liberal Party or PLP [Perry CHRISTIE]

Bahrain:
  political parties prohibited

Bangladesh:
  Awami League or AL [Sheikh HASINA]; Bangladesh Communist
  Party or BCP [Saifuddin Ahmed MANIK]; Bangladesh Nationalist Party
  or BNP [Khaleda ZIAur Rahman]; Islami Oikya Jote or IOJ [Azizol
  HAQ]; Jamaat-E-Islami or JI [Motiur Rahman NIZAMI]; Jatiya Party or
  JP [Hussain Mohammad ERSHAD]

Barbados:
  Barbados Labor Party or BLP [Owen ARTHUR]; Democratic
  Labor Party or DLP [David THOMPSON]; National Democratic Party or
  NDP [Richard HAYNES]

Belarus:
  Agrarian Party or AP [Semyon SHARETSKY, chairman];
  Belarusian Communist Party or KPB [Viktor CHIKIN, chairman];
  Belarusian Ecological Green Party (merger of Belarusian Ecological
  Party and Green Party of Belarus) [leader NA]; Belarusian Patriotic
  Movement (Belarusian Patriotic Party) or BPR [Anatoliy BARANKEVICH,
  chairman]; Belarusian Popular Front or BNF [Vintsuk VYACHORKA];
  Belarusian Social-Democrat or SDBP [Nikolay STATKEVICH, chairman];
  Belarusian Social-Democratic Party Hromada [Stanislav SHUSHKEVICH,
  chairman]; Belarusian Socialist Party [Vyacheslav KUZNETSOV]; Civic
  Accord Bloc (United Civic Party) or CAB [Stanislav BOGDANKEVICH,
  chairman]; Liberal Democratic Party or LDPB [Sergei GAYDUKEVICH,
  chairman]; Party of Communists Belarusian or PKB [Sergei KALYAKIN,
  chairman]; Republican Party of Labor and Justice or RPPS [Anatoliy
  NETYLKIN, chairman]; Social-Democrat Party of Popular Accord or PPA
  [Leanid SECHKA]; Women's Party Nadezhda [Valentina POLEVIKOVA,
  chairperson]

Belgium:
  AGALEV (Flemish Greens) [Dos GEYSELS]; ECOLO (Francophone
  Greens) [no president]; Flemish Christian Democrats or CVP
  (Christian People's Party) [Stefaan DE CLERCK, president]; Flemish
  Liberal Democrats or VLD [Karel DE GUCHT, president]; Flemish
  Socialist Party or SP [Patrick JANSSENS, president]; Francophone
  Christian Democrats or PSC (Social Christian Party) [Joelle MILQUET,
  president]; Francophone Liberal Reformation Party or PRL [Daniel
  DUCARME, president]; Francophone Socialist Party or PS [Elio DI
  RUPO, president]; National Front or FN [Daniel FERET]; Vlaams Blok
  or VB [Frank VANHECKE]; Volksunie or VU [leader vacant]; other minor
  parties

Belize:
  People's United Party or PUP [Said MUSA]; United Democratic
  Party or UDP [Manuel ESQUIVEL, Dean BARROW, Doug SINGH]

Benin:
  African Movement for Democracy and Progress or MADEP [Sefou
  FAGBOHOUN]; Alliance for Democracy and Progress or ADP [Sylvain
  Adekpedjou AKINDES]; Alliance of the Social Democratic Party or PSD
  and the National Union for Solidarity and Progress or UNSP [Bruno
  AMOUSSOU]; Cameleon Alliance or AC [leader NA]; Car-DUNYA [Saka
  SALEY]; Communist Party of Benin or PCB [Pascal FANTONDJI, first
  secretary]; Democratic Renewal Party or PRD [Adrien HOUNGBEDJI];
  Front for Renewal and Development or FARD-ALAFIA [Jerome Sakia
  KINA]; Impulse for Progress and Democracy or IPD [Bertin BORNA];
  Liberal Democrats' Rally for National Reconstruction-Vivoten or
  RDL-Vivoten [Severin ADJOVI]; Movement for Citizens' Commitment and
  Awakening or MERCI [Severin ADJOVI]; New Generation for the Republic
  or NGR [Paul DOSSOU]; Our Common Cause or NCC [Francois Odjo
  TANKPINON]; Party Democratique du Benin or PDB [Col. Soule DANKORO];
  Rally for Democracy and Pan-Africanism or RDP [Dominique HOYMINOU,
  Dr. Giles Auguste MINONTIN]; Renaissance Party du Benin or RB
  [Nicephore SOGLO]; The Star Alliance (Alliance E'toile) [Sacca
  LAFIA]; Union for National Democracy and Solidarity or UDS [Adamou
  N'Diaye MAMA]

  note:  the Coalition of Democratic Forces is an alliance of parties
  and organizations supporting President KEREKOU [Gatien HOUNGBEDJI]

Bermuda:
  National Liberal Party or NLP [Dessaline WALDRON];
  Progressive Labor Party or PLP [Jennifer SMITH]; United Bermuda
  Party or UBP [Pamela GORDON]

Bhutan:
  no legal parties

Bolivia:
  Christian Democratic Party or PDC [leader NA]; Civic
  Solidarity Union or UCS [Johnny FERNANDEZ]; Conscience of the
  Fatherland or CONDEPA [Remedios LOZA Alvarado]; Free Bolivia
  Movement or MBL [Antonio ARANIBAR]; Movement of the Revolutionary
  Left or MIR [Jaime PAZ Zamora]; Nationalist Democratic Action or ADN
  [Hugo BANZER Suarez]; Nationalist Revolutionary Movement or MNR
  [Gonzalo SANCHEZ DE LOZADA]; New Republican Force or NFR [leader
  NA]; Pachacuti Indigenous Movement [Filipe QUISPE]; United Left or
  IU [Marcos DOMIC]

  note:  the ADN, MIR, and UCS comprise the ruling coalition

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  Bosnian Party or BOSS [Mirnes AJANOVIC];
  Bosnian Patriotic Party or BPS [Sefer HALILOVIC]; Civic Democratic
  Party of BiH or GDS [Ibrahim SPAHIC]; Croat Christian Democratic
  Union or HKDU BiH [Ante PASALIC]; Croatian Democratic Union of BiH
  or HDZ-BiH [leader vacant]; Croatian Party of Rights or HSP [Zdravko
  HRSTIC]; Croatian Peasants Party of BiH or HSS-BiH [Ilija SIMIC];
  Democratic Action Party or SDA [Alija IZETBEGOVIC]; Democratic
  National Alliance or DNS [Dragan KOSTIC]; Democratic Party of
  Pensioners or DPS [Alojz KNEZOVIC]; Democratic Party of RS or DSRS
  [Dragomir DUMIC]; Democratic Peoples Union or DNZ [Fikret ABDIC];
  Democratic Socialist Party or DSP [Nebojsa RADMANOVIC]; Liberal
  Democratic Party or LDS [Rasim KADIC]; New Croatian Initiative or
  NHI [Kresimir ZUBAK]; Party for Bosnia and Herzegovina or SBH [Haris
  SILAJDZIC]; Party of Democratic Progress or PDP [Mladen IVANIC];
  Party of Independent Social Democrats or SNSD [Milorad DODIK];
  Pensioners' Party of FBiH [Husein VOJNIKOVIC]; Pensioners' Party of
  SR [Stojan BOGOSAVAC]; Republican Party of BiH or RP [Stjepan
  KLJUIC]; Serb Democratic Party or Serb Lands or SDS [Dragan
  KALINIC]; Serb National Alliance (Serb People's Alliance) or SNS
  [Biljana PLAVSIC]; Social Democratic Party BIH or SDP-BiH [Zlatko
  LAGUMDZIJA]; Socialist Party of Republika Srpska or SPRS [Zivko
  RADISIC]

Botswana:
  Botswana Democratic Party or BDP [Festus MOGAE]; Botswana
  National Front or BNF [Kenneth KOMA]; Botswana Congress Party or BCP
  [Michael DINGAKE]; Botswana Alliance Movement or BAM [Ephraim Lepetu
  SETSHWAELO]

  note:  main parties are: BDP, BNF, BCP; other minor parties joined
  forces in 1999 to form the Botswana Alliance Movement or BAM
  [Ephraim SETSHWAELO, chairman] but did not capture any parliamentary
  seats; the BAM parties are: the United Action Party [Ephraim Lepetu
  SETSHWAELO], the Botswana Peoples Party, the Independence Freedom
  Party [Motsamai MPHO], and the Botswana Progressive Union [D. K.
  KWELE]

Brazil:
  Brazilian Democratic Movement Party or PMDB [Jader BARBALHO,
  president]; Brazilian Labor Party or PTB [Roberto JEFFERSON];
  Brazilian Social Democracy Party or PSDB [Teotonio VILELA Filno];
  Brazilian Socialist Party or PSB [Miguel ARRAES, president];
  Brazilian Progressive Party or PPB [Paulo Salim MALUF]; Communist
  Party of Brazil or PCdoB [Sergio Roberto Gomes SOUZA, chairman];
  Democratic Labor Party or PDT [Leonel BRIZOLA, president]; Liberal
  Front Party or PFL [Jorge BORNHAUSEN, president]; Liberal Party or
  PL [Francisco Teixeira de OLIVEIRA]; Popular Socialist Party or PPS
  [Ciro GOMEZ, president]; Worker's Party or PT [Jose DIRCEU,
  president]

British Virgin Islands:
  Concerned Citizens Movement or CCM [Ethlyn
  SMITH]; National Democratic Party or NDP [Orlando SMITH]; United
  Party or UP [Gregory MADURO]; Virgin Islands Party or VIP [Ralph T.
  O'NEAL]

Brunei:
  Brunei Solidarity National Party or PPKB in Malay [Haji Mohd
  HATTA bin Haji Zainal Abidin, president]; the PPKB is the only legal
  political party in Brunei; it was registered in 1985, but became
  largely inactive after 1988, it was revived in 1995 and again in
  1998; it has less than 200 registered party members; other parties
  include Brunei People's Party or PRB (banned in 1962) and Brunei
  National Democratic Party (registered in May 1965, deregistered by
  the Brunei Government in 1988)

Bulgaria:
  Alliance for National Salvation or ANS (coalition led
  mainly by Movement for Rights and Freedoms or MRF) [Ahmed DOGAN];
  Bulgarian Business Bloc or BBB [Georgi GANCHEV]; Bulgarian Socialist
  Party or BSP [Georgi PURVANOV, chairman]; Democratic Left or DL
  (bloc led by BSP, includes Ecoglasnost Political Club and Bulgarian
  Agrarian National Union) [leader NA]; Euro-left [Aleksandur TOMOV];
  Internal Macedonian Revolutionary Organization or UMRO [Aleksander
  KARAKACHNOV]; Kingdom of Bulgaria Federation [leader NA]; Movement
  for Rights and Freedom or DPS [Ahmed DOGAN]; National Movement for
  Simeon II [Simeon II, former king]; New Civic Party for Bulgaria
  [Bogomil BONEV]; People's Union or PU (includes Bulgarian Agrarian
  People's Union and Democratic Party) [Anastasiya MOZER]; St.
  George's Day [Lyuben DILOV]; Union of Democratic Forces or UDF (an
  alliance of pro-democratic parties) [Ivan KOSTOV]

Burkina Faso:
  African Democratic Rally-Alliance for Democracy and
  Federation or RDA-ADF [Herman YAMEOGO]; Congress for Democracy and
  Progress or CDP [Roch Marc-Christian KABORE]; Movement for Tolerance
  and Progress or MTP [Noyabtigungu Congo KABORE]; Party for African
  Independence or PAI [Philippe OUEDRAOGO]; Party for Democracy and
  Progress or PDP [Joseph KI-ZERBO]; Union of Greens for the
  Development of Burkina Faso or UVDB [Ram OVEDRAGO]

Burma:
  National League for Democracy or NLD [AUNG SHWE, chairman,
  AUNG SAN SUU KYI, general secretary]; National Unity Party or NUP
  (proregime) [THA KYAW]; Shan Nationalities League for Democracy or
  SNLD [U KHUN TUN OO]; Union Solidarity and Development Association
  or USDA (proregime, a social and political organization) [THAN AUNG,
  general secretary]; and other smaller parties

Burundi:
  Two national, mainstream governing parties are: Unity for
  National Progress or UPRONA [Luc RUKINGAMA, president]; Burundi
  Democratic Front or FRODEBU [Jean MINANI, president]

  note:  A multiparty system was introduced after 1998, included are:
  Burundi African Alliance for the Salvation or ABASA [Terrence
  NSANZE]; Rally for Democracy and Economic and Social Development or
  RADDES [Joseph NZENZIMANA]; Party for National Redress or PARENA
  [Jean-Baptiste BAGAZA]; People's Reconciliation Party or PRP
  [Mathias HITIMANA]

Cambodia:
  Buddhist Liberal Party or BLP [IENG MOULY]; Cambodian
  Pracheachon Party or Cambodian People's Party or CPP [CHEA SIM];
  Khmer Citizen Party or KCP [NGUON SOEUR]; National United Front for
  an Independent, Neutral, Peaceful, and Cooperative Cambodia or
  FUNCINPEC [Prince NORODOM RANARIDDH]; Sam Rangsi Party or SRP
  (formerly Khmer Nation Party or KNP) [SAM RANGSI]

Cameroon:
  Cameroonian Democratic Union or UDC [Adamou NDAM NJOYA];
  Democratic Rally of the Cameroon People or RDCP [Paul BIYA];
  Movement for the Defense of the Republic or MDR [Dakole DAISSALA];
  Movement for the Liberation and Development of Cameroon or MLDC
  [leader NA]; Movement for the Youth of Cameroon or MLJC [Marcel
  YONDO]; National Union for Democracy and Progress or UNDP [Maigari
  BELLO BOUBA, chairman]; Social Democratic Front or SDF [John FRU
  NDI]; Union of Cameroonian Populations has two sections UPC-N [Ndeh
  NTUMAZAH] and UPC-K [Augustin Frederic KODOCK]

Canada:
  Bloc Quebecois [Gilles DUCEPPE]; Canadian Alliance
  [Stockwell DAY]; Liberal Party [Jean CHRETIEN]; New Democratic Party
  [Alexa MCDONOUGH]; Progressive Conservative Party [Joe CLARK]

Cape Verde:
  African Party for Independence of Cape Verde or PAICV
  [Jose Maria NEVES, chairman]; Democratic Alliance for Change or ADM
  [Dr. Eurico MONTEIRO] (a coalition of PCD, PTS, and UCID);
  Democratic Renovation Party or PRD [Jacinto SANTOS, president];
  Movement for Democracy or MPD [Antonio Gualberto do ROSARIO,
  president]; Party for Democratic Convergence or PCD [Dr. Eurico
  MONTEIRO, president]; Party of Work and Solidarity or PTS [Dr.
  Oresimo SILVEIRA, president]; Social Democratic Party or PSD [Joao
  ALEM, president]; Union for an Independent Democratic Cape Verde or
  UCID [Antonio MONTEIRO, president]

Cayman Islands:
  there are no formal political parties but the
  following loose groupings act as political organizations; National
  Team; Democratic Alliance; Team Cayman

Central African Republic:
  Alliance for Democracy and Progress or ADP
  [Francois PEHOUA]; Central African Democratic Assembly or RDC [Andre
  KOLINGBA]; Civic Forum or FC [Gen. Timothee MALENDOMA]; Democratic
  Forum or FODEM [Charles MASSI]; Liberal Democratic Party or PLD
  [Nestor KOMBO-NAGUEMON]; Movement for Democracy and Development or
  MDD [David DACKO]; Movement for the Liberation of the Central
  African People or MLPC [the party of the president, Ange-Felix
  PATASSE]; Patriotic Front for Progress or FPP [Abel GOUMBA];
  People's Union for the Republic or UPR [leader NA]; National Unity
  Party or PUN [Jean-Paul NGOUPANDE]; Social Democratic Party or PSD
  [Enoch LAKOUE]

Chad:
  National Union for Development and Renewal or UNDR [Saleh
  KEBZABO]; Patriotic Salvation Movement or MPS [Mahamat Saleh AHMAT,
  chairman] (originally in opposition but now the party in power and
  the party of the president); Rally for Democracy and Progress or RDP
  [Lal Mahamat CHOUA]; Union for Renewal and Democracy or URD [Gen.
  Wadal Abdelkader KAMOUGUE]

Chile:
  Center-Center Union Party or UCCP [Francisco Javier
  ERRAZURIZ]; Christian Democratic Party or PDC [Ricardo HORMAZABAL];
  Coalition of Parties for Democracy ("Concertacion") or CPD -
  including PDC, PS, PPD, PRSD; Independent Democratic Union or UDI
  [Pablo LONGUEIRA]; National Renewal or RN [Alberto CARDEMIL]; Party
  for Democracy or PPD [Guido GIRARDI]; Radical Social Democratic
  Party or PRSD [Anselmo SULE]; Socialist Party or PS [Ricardo NUNEZ]

China:
  Chinese Communist Party or CCP [JIANG Zemin, General
  Secretary of the Central Committee]; eight registered small parties
  controlled by CCP

Christmas Island:
  none

Cocos (Keeling) Islands:
  none

Colombia:
  Conservative Party or PSC [Ciro RAMIREZ Anzon]; Liberal
  Party or PL [Luis Guillermo VELEZ]; Patriotic Union or UP is a legal
  political party formed by Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia or
  FARC and Colombian Communist Party or PCC [Jaime CAICEDO]; 19 of
  April Movement or M-19 [Antonio NAVARRO Wolff]

Comoros:
  Front National pour la Justice or FNJ (Islamic party in
  opposition) [Ahmed Abdallah MOHAMED, Ahmed ABOUBACAR, Soidiki
  M'BAPANOZA]; Rassemblement National pour le Development or RND
  (party of the government) [Ali Bazi SELIM]

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  Democratic Social Christian Party
  or PDSC [Andre BO-BOLIKO]; Popular Movement of the Revolution or MPR
  [leader NA]; Unified Lumumbast Party or PALU [Antoine GIZENGA];
  Union for Democracy and Social Progress or UDPS [Etienne TSHISEKEDI
  wa Mulumba]; Union of Federalists and Independent Republicans or
  UFERI [Kouyoumba MUCHULI Mulembe]

Congo, Republic of the:
  the most important of the many parties are
  the Democratic and Patriotic Forces or FDP (an alliance of
  Convention for Alternative Democracy, Congolese Labor Party or PCT,
  Liberal Republican Party, National Union for Democracy and Progress,
  Patriotic Union for the National Reconstruction, and Union for the
  National Renewal) [Denis SASSOU-NGUESSO, president]; Association for
  Democracy and Social Progress or RDPS [Jean-Pierre Thystere
  TCHICAYA, president]; Congolese Movement for Democracy and Integral
  Development or MCDDI [Michel MAMPOUYA]; Pan-African Union for Social
  Development or UPADS [Martin MBERI]; Union of Democratic Forces or
  UFD [Sebastian EBAO]

Cook Islands:
  Cook Islands People's Party or CIP [Tai CARPENTER];
  Democratic Alliance Party or DAP [Terepai MAOATE]; New Alliance
  Party or NAP [Norman GEORGE]

Costa Rica:
  Agricultural Labor Action or PALA [Carlos Alberto SOLIS
  Blanco]; Costa Rican Renovation Party or PRC [Justo OROZCO];
  Democratic Force Party or PFD [Jose M. NUNEZ]; Libertarian Movement
  Party or PML [Otto GUEVARA Guth]; National Christian Alliance Party
  or ANC [Alejandro MADRIGAL]; National Independent Party or PNI
  [Jorge GONZALEZ Marten]; National Integration Party or PIN [Walter
  MUNOZ Cespedes]; National Liberation Party or PLN [Sonia PICADO];
  Social Christian Unity Party or PUSC [Luis Manuel CHACON]

  note:  mainly a two-party system - PUSC and PLN; numerous small
  parties share less than 25% of population's support

Cote d'Ivoire:
  Democratic Party of Cote d'Ivoire-African Democratic
  Rally or PDCI-RDA [Aime Henri Konan BEDIE]; Ivorian Popular Front or
  FPI [Laurent GBAGBO]; Ivorian Worker's Party or PIT [Francis WODIE];
  Rally of the Republicans or RDR [Henriette DAGRI-DIABATE]; Union for
  Democracy and Peace [Gen. Robert GUEI]; over 20 smaller parties

Croatia:
  Alliance of Croatian Coast and Mountains Department or PGS
  [Luciano SUSANJ]; Croatian Christian Democratic Union or HKDU [Marko
  VESELICA]; Croatian Democratic Union or HDZ [Ivo SANADER]; Croatian
  Party of Rights or HSP [Dobroslav PARAGA]; Croatian Peasant Party or
  HSS [Zlatko TOMCIC]; Croatian People's Party or HNS [Vesna PUSIC];
  Croatian Social Liberal Party or HSLS [Drazen BUDISA]; Independent
  Democratic Serb Party or SDSS [Vojislav STANIMIROVIC]; Istrian
  Democratic Assembly or IDS [Ivan JAKOVCIC]; Liberal Party or LP
  [leader NA]; Social Democratic Party of Croatia or SDP [Ivica RACAN]

  note:  the Social Democratic Party or SDP and the Croatian Social
  Liberal Party or HSLS formed a coalition as did the HSS, HNS, LP,
  and IDS, which together defeated the Croatian Democratic Union or
  HDZ in the 2000 lower house parliamentary election

Cuba:
  only party - Cuban Communist Party or PCC [Fidel CASTRO Ruz,
  first secretary]

Cyprus:
  Greek Cypriot area: Democratic Party or DIKO [Tassos
  PAPADOPOULOS]; Democratic Rally or DISY [Nikos ANASTASIADHIS];
  Restorative Party of the Working People or AKEL (Communist Party)
  [Dimitrios CHRISTOFIAS]; Social Democrats Movement or KISOS
  (formerly United Democratic Union of Cyprus or EDEK) [Vassos
  LYSSARIDIS]; United Democrats Movement or EDE (formerly Free
  Democrats Movement or KED) [George VASSILIOU]; Turkish Cypriot area:
  Communal Liberation Party or TKP [Mustafa AKINCI]; Democratic Party
  or DP [Salih COSAR]; National Birth Party or UDP [Enver EMIN];
  National Unity Party or UBP [Dervis EROGLU]; Our Party or BP [Okyay
  SADIKOGLU]; Patriotic Unity Movement or YBH [Izzet IZCAN];
  Republican Turkish Party or CTP [Mehmet ALI TALAT]

Czech Republic:
  Christian and Democratic Union-Czechoslovak People's
  Party or KDU-CSL [Jan KASAL, chairman]; Civic Democratic Alliance or
  ODA [Daniel KROUPA, chairman]; Civic Democratic Party or ODS [Vaclav
  KLAUS, chairman]; Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia or KSCM
  [Miroslav GREBENICEK, chairman]; Communist Party of Czechoslovakia
  or KSC [Miroslav STEPAN, chairman]; Czech National Social Party of
  CSNS [Jan SULA, chairman]; Czech Social Democratic Party or CSSD
  [Milos ZEMAN, chairman]; Democratic Union or DEU [Ratibor MAJZLIK,
  chairman]; Freedom Union or US [Karel KUEHNL, chairman]; Quad
  Coalition [Cyril SVOBODA, chairman] (includes KDU-CSL, US, ODA,
  DEU); Republicans of Miroslav SLADEK or RMS [Miroslav SLADEK,
  chairman]

Denmark:
  Center Democratic Party [Mimi JAKOBSEN]; Christian People's
  Party [Jann SJURSEN]; Conservative Party (sometimes known as
  Conservative People's Party) [Bendt BENDTSEN]; Danish People's Party
  [Pia KJAERSGAARD]; Liberal Party [Anders Fogh RASMUSSEN]; Progress
  Party (now named Freedom 2000) [Kim BEHNKE]; Social Democratic Party
  [Poul Nyrup RASMUSSEN]; Social Liberal Party (sometimes called the
  Radical Left) [Marianne JELVED, leader; Johannes LEBECH, chairman];
  Socialist People's Party [Holger K. NIELSEN]; Red-Green Unity List
  (bloc includes Left Socialist Party, Communist Party of Denmark,
  Socialist Workers' Party) [collective leadership]

Djibouti:
  Democratic National Party or PND [ADEN Robleh Awaleh];
  Democratic Renewal Party or PRD [Abdillahi HAMARITEH]; People's
  Progress Assembly or RPP (governing party) [Ismail Omar GELLEH]

Dominica:
  Dominica Freedom Party or DFP [Charles SAVARIN]; Dominica
  Labor Party or DLP [Pierre CHARLES]; United Workers Party or UWP
  [Edison JAMES]

Dominican Republic:
  Dominican Liberation Party or PLD [Leonel
  FERNANDEZ Reyna]; Dominican Revolutionary Party or PRD [Hatuey DE
  CAMPS]; Social Christian Reformist Party or PRSC [Joaquin BALAGUER
  Ricardo]

Ecuador:
  Concentration of Popular Forces or CFP [Averroes BUCARAM];
  Democratic Left or ID [Rodrigo BORJA Cevallos]; Ecuadorian
  Conservative Party or PCE [Sixto DURAN Ballen]; Independent National
  Movement or MIN [leader NA]; Pachakutik-New Country or P-NP [Rafael
  PANDAM]; Popular Democracy or DP [Ramiro RIVERA]; Popular Democratic
  Movement or MPD [leader NA]; Radical Alfarista Front or FRA [Fabian
  ALARCON, director]; Roldosist Party or PRE [Abdala BUCARAM Ortiz,
  director]; Social Christian Party or PSC [Jaime NEBOT Saadi,
  president]

Egypt:
  Nasserist Arab Democratic Party or Nasserists [Dia' al-din
  DAWUD]; National Democratic Party or NDP [President Mohammed Hosni
  MUBARAK, leader] - governing party; National Progressive Unionist
  Grouping or Tagammu [Khalid MUHI AL-DIN]; New Wafd Party or NWP
  [No'man GOMA]; Socialist Liberal Party or LSP [leader NA]

  note:  formation of political parties must be approved by government

El Salvador:
  Christian Democratic Party or PDC [Rene AGUILUZ];
  Democratic Convergence or CD (includes PSD, MNR, MPSC) [Ruben
  ZAMORA, secretary general]; Democratic Party or PD [Jorge MELENDEZ];
  Farabundo Marti National Liberation Front or FMLN [Fabio CASTILLO];
  Liberal Democratic Party or PLD [Kirio Waldo SALGADO, president];
  National Action Party or PAN [Gustavo Rogelio SALINAS, secretary
  general]; National Conciliation Party or PCN [Ciro CRUZ Zepeda,
  president]; National Republican Alliance or ARENA [Walter ARAUJO];
  Social Christian Union or USC (formed by the merger of Christian
  Social Renewal Party or PRSC and Unity Movement or MU) [Abraham
  RODRIGUEZ, president]

Equatorial Guinea:
  Convergence Party for Social Democracy or CPDS
  [Placido Miko ABOGO]; Democratic Party for Equatorial Guinea or PDGE
  (ruling party) [Teodoro OBIANG NGUEMA MBASOGO]; Party for Progress
  of Equatorial Guinea or PPGE [Severo MOTO]; Popular Action of
  Equatorial Guinea or APGE [Miguel Esono EMAN]; Popular Union or UP
  [Andres Moises Bda ADA]; Progressive Democratic Alliance or ADP
  [Victorino Bolekia BONAY, mayor of Malabo]; Union of Independent
  Democrats of UDI [Daniel OYONO]

Eritrea:
  People's Front for Democracy and Justice or PFDJ, the only
  party recognized by the government [ISAIAS Afworki, PETROS Solomon];
  note - the National Assembly has appointed a committee to draft a
  law on political parties

Estonia:
  Center Party or K [Edgar SAVISAAR, chairman]; Christian
  People's Party [Aldo VINKEL]; Coalition Party and Rural Union or KMU
  [Andrus OOBEL, chairman]; Estonian Democratic Party (formerly
  Estonian Blue Party) [Jaan LAAS]; Estonian Independence Party
  [leader NA]; Estonian National Democratic Party or ENDP [leader NA];
  Estonian Pensioners and Families Party [Mai TREIAL]; Estonian
  Progressive Party [Andra VEIDEMANN]; Estonian Republican Party
  [leader NA]; Estonian Social-Democratic Labor Party [Tiit TOOMSALU];
  Estonian Rural People's Union (1999 merger of Estonian Country
  People's Party and the Estonian Rural Union) [Arvo SIRENDI]; Party
  of Consolidation Today [leader NA]; People's Party Moderates (1999
  merger of People's Party and Moderates) [Andres TARAND]; Reform
  Party or RE [Siim KALLAS, chairman]; Russian Party in Estonia
  [Nikolai MASPANOV]; Russian Unity Party [Igor SEDASHEV]; Union of
  Pro Patria or Fatherland League (Isamaaliit) [Mart LAAR, chairman];
  United People's Party or UPPE [Viktor ANDREJEV, chairman]

Ethiopia:
  Afar National Democratic Party or ANDP [leader NA];
  All-Amhara People's Organization or AAPO [KEGNAZ MATCH Neguea
  Tibeb]; Amhara National Democratic Movement or ANDM [TEFERA Walwa];
  Bench Madji People's Democratic Organization or BMPDO [leader NA];
  Benishangul Gumuz People's Democratic Unity Front or BGPDUF [leader
  NA]; Coalition of Alternative Forces for Peace and Democracy or
  CAFPD [Kifle TIGNEH Abate and BEYENE Petros]; Ethiopian Democratic
  Unity Party or EDUP [Lt. Gen. TESFAYE Gebre Kidan]; Ethiopian
  National Democratic Party or ENDP [FEKADU Gedamu]; Ethiopian
  People's Revolutionary Democratic Front or EPRDF [MELES Zenawi] (an
  alliance of the ANDM, OPDO, and TPLF); Gedeyo People's Revolutionary
  Democratic Movement or GPRDF [leader NA]; Gurange Nationalities
  Democratic Movement or GNDM [leader NA]; Kafa Shaka People's
  Democratic Organization or KSPDO [leader NA]; Kembata, Alabaa, and
  Tembaro or KAT [leader NA]; Oromo Liberation Front or OLF [DAOUD
  Ibsa Gudina]; Oromo People's Democratic Organization or OPDO [KUMA
  Demeksa]; Sidama People's Democratic Organization or SPDO [leader
  NA]; South Omo People's Democratic Movement or SOPDM [leader NA];
  Tigrai People's Liberation Front or TPLF [MELES Zenawi]; Walayta,
  Gamo, Gofa, Dawro, Konta People's Democratic Organization or WGGPDO
  [leader NA]; dozens of small parties

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas):
  none; all independents

Faroe Islands:
  Center Party [Jenis A. RANA]; Home Rule Party [Helena
  Dam a NEYSTABO]; People's Party [Oli BRECKMANN]; Republican Party
  [Hogni HOYDAL]; Social Democratic Party [Joannes EIDESGAARD]; Union
  Party [Edmund JOENSEN]

Fiji:
  Fiji Labor Party or FLP [Mahendra CHAUDHRY]; Fijian
  Nationalist Federation Party or NFP [Singh RAKKA]; Fijian Political
  Party or SVT (primarily Fijian) [Maj. Gen. Sitiveni RABUKA];
  National Federation Party or NFP (primarily Indian) [Jai Ram REDDY];
  United General Party or UGP [David PICKERING]

Finland:
  Center Party or Kesk [Esko AHO]; Finnish Christian Union or
  SKL [C. P. Bjarne KALLIS]; Green Union [Satu HASSI]; Leftist
  Alliance (Communist) composed of People's Democratic League and
  Democratic Alternative [Suvi-Anne SIIMES]; National Coalition
  (conservative) Party or Kok [Sauli NIINISTO]; Reform Group [Risto
  KUISMA]; Social Democratic Party or SDP [Paavo LIPPONEN]; Swedish
  People's Party or SFP [Jan-Erik ENESTAM]; True Finns [Timo SOINI]

France:
  Citizens Movement or MdC [Jean Pierre CHEVENEMENT]; French
  Communist Party or PCF [Robert HUE]; Independent Ecological Movement
  or MEI [Antoine WAECHTER]; Left Radical Party or PRG (previously
  Radical Socialist Party or PRS and the Left Radical Movement or MRG)
  [Jean-Michel BAYLET]; Liberal Democracy or DL (originally Republican
  Party or PR) [Alain MADELIN]; Movement for France or MPF [Philippe
  DEVILLIERS]; National Front or FN [Jean-Marie LE PEN]; Rally for the
  Republic or RPR [Michelle ALLIOT-MARIE]; Socialist Party or PS
  [Francois HOLLANDE]; Union for French Democracy or UDF (coalition of
  UDC, FD, RRRS, PPDF) [Francois BAYROU]; Union of the Center or UDC
  [leader NA]

French Guiana:
  Guianese Socialist Party or PSG [Antoine KARAM];
  Guyana Democratic Forces or FDG [Georges OTHILY]; Rally for the
  Republic or RPR [Roland HO-WEN-SZE]; Socialist Party or PS [Pierre
  RIBARDIERE] (may be a subset of PSG); Walwari Committee [Christine
  TAUBIRA-DELANON]

French Polynesia:
  Centrist Union or UC [leader NA]; Independent
  Front for the Liberation of Polynesia (Tavini Huiraatira) [Oscar
  TEMARU]; New Fatherland Party (Ai'a Api) [Emile VERNAUDON]; People's
  Rally for the Republic (Tahoeraa Huiraatira) [Gaston FLOSSE]

Gabon:
  African Forum for Reconstruction or FAR [Leon MBOU-YEMBI];
  Circle of Liberal Reformers or CLR [General Jean Boniface ASSELE];
  Democratic and Republican Alliance or ADERE [Divungui-di-Ndinge
  DIDJOB]; Gabonese Democratic Party or PDG, former sole party
  [Simplice Nguedet MANZELA, secretary general]; Gabonese Party for
  Progress or PGP [Pierre-Louis AGONDJO-OKAWE, president]; Gabonese
  People's Union or UPG [Pierre MAMBOUNDOU]; Gabonese Socialist Union
  or USG [Serge MBA BEKALE]; National Rally of Woodcutters (Bucherons)
  or RNB [Fr. Paul M'BA-ABESSOLE]; People's Unity Party or PUP [Louis
  Gaston MAYILA]; Rally for Democracy and Progress or RDP [Pierre
  EMBONI]; Social Democratic Party or PSD [Pierre Claver
  MAGANGA-MOUSSAVOU]

Gambia, The:
  Alliance for Patriotic Reorientation and Construction
  or APRC [Yahya A. J. J. JAMMEH]; National Reconciliation Party or
  NRP [Hamat N. K. BAH]; People's Democratic Organization for
  Independence and Socialism or PDOIS [Sidia JATTA]; United Democratic
  Party or UDP [Ousainou DARBOE]

  note:  in August 1996 the government banned the following from
  participation in the elections of 1996: People's Progressive Party
  or PPP [former President Dawda K. JAWARA (in exile)], and two
  opposition parties - the National Convention Party or NCP [former
  Vice President Sheriff DIBBA] and the Gambian People's Party or GPP
  [Hassan Musa CAMARA]

Georgia:
  Citizen's Union of Georgia or CUG [Eduard SHEVARDNADZE];
  Georgian United Communist Party or UCPG [Panteleimon GIORGADZE,
  chairman]; Industry Will Save Georgia or IWSG [Georgi TOPADZE];
  National Democratic Party or NDP [Irina SARISHVILI-CHANTURIA];
  Socialist Party or SPG [Temur GAMTSEMLIDZE]; Union for "Revival"
  Party or AGUR [Alsan ABASHIDZE]; United Republican Party or URP
  [Nodar NATADZE, chairman]

Germany:
  Alliance '90/Greens [Renate KUENAST and Fritz KUHN];
  Christian Democratic Union or CDU [Angela MERKEL]; Christian Social
  Union or CSU [Edmund STOIBER, chairman]; Free Democratic Party or
  FDP [Wolfgang GERHARDT, chairman]; note - Wolfgang GERHARDT will
  probably be replaced by Guido WESTERWELLE in May 2001; Party of
  Democratic Socialism or PDS [Gabi ZIMMER]; Social Democratic Party
  or SPD [Gerhard SCHROEDER, chairman]

Ghana:
  Every Ghanaian Living Everywhere or EGLE [Owuraku AMOFA,
  chairman]; National Convention Party or NCP [Sarpong KUMA-KUMA];
  National Democratic Congress or NDC [Dr. Huudu YAHAYA, general
  secretary]; New Patriotic Party or NPP [Samuel Arthur ODOI-SYKES];
  People's Convention Party or PCP [P. K. DONKOH-AYIFI, acting
  chairman]; People's Heritage Party or PHP [Emmanuel Alexander
  ERSKINE]; People's National Convention or PNC [Edward MAHAMA]

Gibraltar:
  Gibraltar Social Democrats or GSD [Peter CARUANA];
  Gibraltar Socialist Labor Party or GSLP [Joseph John BOSSANO]

Greece:
  Coalition of the Left and Progress (Synaspismos) [Nikolaos
  KONSTANDOPOULOS]; Communist Party of Greece or KKE [Aleka PAPARIGA];
  New Democracy or ND (conservative) [Konstandinos KARAMANLIS];
  Panhellenic Socialist Movement or PASOK [Konstandinos SIMITIS]

Greenland:
  Akulliit Party [Bjarne KREUTZMANN]; Atassut Party
  (Solidarity, a conservative party favoring continuing close
  relations with Denmark) [Daniel SKIFTE]; Inuit Ataqatigiit or IA
  (Eskimo Brotherhood, a leftist party favoring complete independence
  from Denmark rather than home rule) [Josef MOTZFELDT]; Issituup
  (Polar Party) [Nicolai HEINRICH]; Kattusseqatigiit (Candidate List,
  an independent right-of-center party with no official platform
  [leader NA]; Siumut (Forward Party, a social democratic party
  advocating more distinct Greenlandic identity and greater autonomy
  from Denmark) [Jonathan MOTZFELDT]

Grenada:
  Grenada United Labor Party or GULP [Herbert PREUDHOMME];
  National Democratic Congress or NDC [leader vacant]; New National
  Party or NNP [George McGUIRE]

Guadeloupe:
  Communist Party of Guadeloupe or PCG [Christian
  CELESTE]; Progressive Democratic Party or PPDG [Henri BANGOU]; Rally
  for the Republic or RPR [Aldo BLAISE]; Socialist Party or PS
  [Georges LOUISOR]; Union for French Democracy or UDF [Marcel ESDRAS]

Guam:
  Democratic Party (party of the Governor) [leader NA];
  Republican Party (controls the legislature) [leader NA]

Guatemala:
  Authentic Integral Development or DIA [Jorge Luis
  ORTEGA]; Democratic Union or UD [Jose Luis CHEA Urruela]; Green
  Party or LOV [Jose ASTURIAS Rudecke]; Guatemalan Christian Democracy
  or DCG [Vinicio CEREZO Arevalo]; Guatemalan National Revolutionary
  Unity or URNG [Pablo MONSANTO, also known as Jorge SOTO]; Guatemalan
  Republican Front or FRG [Efrain RIOS Montt]; New Nation Alliance or
  ANN [leader NA], which includes the URNG; National Advancement Party
  or PAN [Leonel LOPEZ Rodas]; Progressive Liberator Party or PLP
  [Acisclo VALLADARES Molina]

Guernsey:
  none; all independents

Guinea:
  Democratic Party of Guinea or PDG-AST [Marcel CROS];
  Democratic Party of Guinea-African Democratic Rally or PDG-RDA [El
  Hadj Ismael Mohamed Gassim GUSHEIN]; National Union for Progress or
  UNP [Paul Louis FABER]; Party for Unity and Progress or PUP [Lansana
  CONTE] - the governing party; Party for Renewal and Progress or PRP
  [Siradiou DIALLO]; Rally for the Guinean People or RPG [Alpha
  CONDE]; Union for Progress of Guinea or UPG [Jean-Marie DORE,
  secretary-general]; Union for the New Republic or UNR [Mamadou Boye
  BA]; Union of Republican Forces or UFR [Sidya TOURE]

Guinea-Bissau:
  African Party for the Independence of Guinea-Bissau
  and Cape Verde or PAIGC [Francisco BENANTE]; Front for the
  Liberation and Independence of Guinea or FLING [Francois MENDY];
  Guinea-Bissau Resistance-Ba Fata Movement or RGB-MB [Helder Vaz
  LOPES]; Guinean Civic Forum or FCG [Antonieta Rosa GOMES];
  International League for Ecological Protection or LIPE [Alhaje
  Bubacar DJALO, president]; National Union for Democracy and Progress
  or UNDP [Abubacer BALDE, secretary general]; Party for Democratic
  Convergence or PCD [Victor MANDINGA]; Social Renovation Party or PRS
  [Koumba YALLA]; Union for Change or UM [Jorge MANDINGA, president,
  Dr. Anne SAAD, secretary general]; United Social Democratic Party or
  PUSD [Victor Sau'de MARIA]

Guyana:
  Alliance for Guyana or AFG (includes Guyana Labor Party or
  GLP and Working People's Alliance or WPA [Rupert ROOPNARINE]; Guyana
  Action Party or GAP [leader NA]; Guyana Labor Party or GLP [leader
  NA]; People's National Congress or PNC [Hugh Desmond HOYTE];
  People's Progressive Party or PPP [Janet JAGEN]; Rise, Organize and
  Rebuild or ROAR [Ravi DEV]; The United Force or TUF [Manzoor NADIR];
  Working People's Alliance or WPA [Rupert ROOPARNINE]

Haiti:
  Alliance for the Liberation and Advancement of Haiti or ALAH
  [Reynold GEORGES]; Assembly of Progressive National Democrats or
  RDNP [Leslie MANIGAT]; Convergence (opposition coalition composed of
  ESPACE, OPL, and MOCHRENA) [Gerard PIERRE-CHARLES, Evans PAUL, Luc
  MESADIEU, Victor BENOIT]; Democratic Consultation Group coalition or
  ESPACE [Evans PAUL, Victor Benoit] composed of the following
  parties: National Congress of Democratic Movements or KONAKOM,
  National Progressive Revolutionary Party or PANPRA, Generation 2004,
  and Haiti Can; Haitian Christian Democratic Party or PDCH
  [Marie-France CLAUDE]; Haitian Democratic Party or PADEM [Clark
  PARENT]; Lavalas Family or FL [Jean-Bertrand ARISTIDE]; Mobilization
  for National Development or MDN [Hubert DE RONCERAY]; Movement for
  National Reconstruction or MRN [Rene THEODORE]; Movement for the
  Installation of Democracy in Haiti or MIDH [Marc BAZIN]; Movement
  for the Organization of the Country or MOP [Gesner COMEAU and Jean
  MOLIERE]; National Front for Change and Democracy or FNCD [Evans
  PAUL and Turneb DELPE]; New Christian Movement for a New Haiti or
  MOCHRENA [Luc MESADIEU]; Struggling People's Organization or OPL
  [Gerard PIERRE-CHARLES]

Holy See (Vatican City):
  none

Honduras:
  Christian Democratic Party or PDC [Efrain DIAZ
  Arrivillaga, president]; Democratic Unification Party or PUD [Marias
  FUNES Valladares, president]; Liberal Party or PL [Carlos Roberto
  FLORES Facusse, president]; National Innovation and Unity
  Party-Social Democratic Party or PINU-SD [Olban VALLADARES,
  president]; National Party of Honduras or PN [Carlos URBIZO,
  president]

Hong Kong:
  Association for Democracy and People's Livelihood
  [Frederick FUNG Kin-kee, chairman]; Citizens Party [leader NA];
  Democratic Alliance for the Betterment of Hong Kong [Jasper TSANG
  Yok-sing, chairman]; Democratic Party [Martin LEE Chu-ming,
  chairman]; Frontier Party [Emily LAU Wai-hing, chairwoman]; Hong
  Kong Association for Democracy and People's Livelihood [leader NA];
  Hong Kong Progressive Alliance [Ambrose LAU Hon-chuen]; Liberal
  Party [James TIEN Pei-chun, chairman]; New Century Forum [NQ
  Ching-fai, chairman]

  note:  political blocs include: pro-democracy - Association for
  Democracy and People's Livelihood, Citizens Party, Democratic Party,
  Frontier Party; pro-Beijing - Democratic Alliance for the Betterment
  of Hong Kong, Hong Kong Progressive Alliance, Liberal Party, New
  Century Forum

Hungary:
  Alliance of Free Democrats or SZDSZ [Gabor DEMSZKY];
  Christian Democratic People's Party or KDNP [Gyorgy GICZY,
  president]; Federation of Young Democrats-Hungarian Civic Party or
  FYD-HCP [Laszlo KOVER]; note - used to be Hungarian Civic Party or
  FIDESZ; Hungarian Democratic Forum or MDF [Ibolya DAVID]; Hungarian
  Democratic People's Party or MDNP [Erzsebet PUSZTAI, chairman];
  Hungarian Justice and Life Party or MIEP [Istvan CSURKA, chairman];
  Hungarian Socialist Party or MSZP [Laszlo KOVACS, chairman];
  Hungarian Workers' Party or MMP [Gyula THURMER, chairman];
  Independent Smallholders or FKGP [Jozsef TORGYAN, president]

Iceland:
  Independence Party (conservative) or IP [David ODDSSON];
  Left-Green Alliance [Steinsvimur SIGFUSSON]; Liberal Party [Sverrir
  HERMANNSSON]; People's Party (Social Democratic Party) or SDP
  [Sighvatyr BJORGIVINSSON]; Progressive Party (liberal) or PP
  [Halldor ASGRIMSSON]; The Alliance (includes People's Alliance or
  PA, Social Democratic Party or SVP, People's Movement, Women's List)
  [Ossur SKARPHEDINSSON]; Women's List or WL [Kristin ASTGEIRSDOTTIR]

India:
  All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam or AIADMK [C.
  Jayalalitha JAYARAM]; All India Forward Bloc or AIFB [Prem Dutta
  PALIWAL (chairman), Chitta BASU (general secretary)]; Asom Gana
  Parishad [Prafulla Kumar MAHANTA]; Bahujan Samaj Party or BSP
  [Kanshi RAM]; Bharatiya Janata Party or BJP [Bangaru LAXMAN,
  president]; Biju Janata Dal or BJD [Naveen PATNAIK]; Communist Party
  of India or CPI [Ardhendu Bhushan BARDHAN]; Communist Party of
  India/Marxist-Leninist or CPI/ML [Vinod MISHRA]; Congress (I) Party
  [Sonia GANDHI, president]; Dravida Munnetra Kazagham or DMK (a
  regional party in Tamil Nadu) [M. KARUNANIDHI]; Indian National
  League [Suliaman SAIT]; Janata Dal (Secular) [H. D. Deve GOWDA];
  Janata Dal (United) or JDU [Sharad YADAV, president, I. K. GUJRAL];
  Kerala Congress (Mani faction) [K. M. MANI]; Marumalarchi Dravida
  Munnetra Kazhagam or MDMK [VAIKO]; Muslim League [G. M. BANATWALA];
  Nationalist Congress Party or NCP [Sharad PAWAR]; National
  Democratic Alliance, a 16-party alliance including BJP, DMK, Janata
  Dal (U), SHS, Shiromani Akali Dal, Telugu Desam, BJD, Rinamool
  Congress]; Rashtriya Janata Dal or RJD [Laloo Prasad YADAV];
  Revolutionary Socialist Party or RSP [Tridip CHOWDHURY]; Samajwadi
  Party or SP [Mulayam Singh YADAV, president]; Shiromani Akali Dal
  [Prakash Singh BADAL]; Shiv Sena [Bal THACKERAY]; Tamil Maanila
  Congress [G. K. MOOPANAR]; Telugu Desam Party or TDP (a regional
  party in Andhra Pradesh) [Chandrababu NAIDU]; Trinamool Congress
  [Mamata BANERJEE]

Indonesia:
  Crescent Moon and Star Party or PBB [Yusril Ihza
  MAHENDRA, chairman]; Development Unity Party or PPP (federation of
  former Islamic parties) [Hamzah HAZ, chairman]; Federation of
  Functional Groups or Golkar [Akbar TANJUNG, general chairman];
  Indonesia Democracy Party or PDI (federation of former Nationalist
  and Christian Parties) [Budi HARDJONO, chairman]; Indonesia
  Democracy Party-Struggle or PDI-P [MEGAWATI Sukarnoputri,
  chairperson]; National Awakening Party or PKB [Matori Abdul DJALIL,
  chairman]; National Mandate Party or PAN [Amien RAIS, chairman]

Iran:
  the following organizations appeared to have achieved
  considerable success at elections to the sixth Majlis in early 2000:
  Assembly of the Followers of the Imam's Line, Freethinkers' Front,
  Islamic Iran Participation Front, Moderation and Development Party,
  Servants of Construction Party, Society of Self-sacrificing Devotees

Iraq:
  Ba'th Party [SADDAM Husayn, central party leader]

Ireland:
  Democratic Left [Proinsias DE ROSSA]; Fianna Fail [Bertie
  AHERN]; Fine Gael [Michael NOONAN]; Green Party [Mary BOWERS]; Labor
  Party [Ruairi QUINN]; Progressive Democrats [Mary HARNEY]; Sinn Fein
  [Gerry ADAMS]; Socialist Party [Joe HIGGINS]; The Workers' Party
  [Tom FRENCH]

Israel:
  Balad or National Democratic Alliance [Amnon LIPKIN-SHAHAK];
  Center Party [Yitzhak MORDECHAI]; Democratic Movement [Roman
  BRONFMAN]; Gesher [David LEVI]; Hadash [Muhammad BARAKA]; Labor
  Party [leader vacant]; Likud Party [Ariel SHARON]; MERETZ [Yossi
  SARID]; National Democratic Alliance (Balad) [leader NA]; National
  Religious Party [Yitzhak LEVY]; National Union [Rehavam ZEEVI]
  (includes Herut, Tekuma, and Moledet); One Israel [leader NA]
  (includes Labor, Gesher, and Meimad); One Nation [Amir PERETZ]; Shas
  [Eliyahu YISHAI]; Shinui [Tommy LAPID]; United Arab List [Abd
  al-Malik DAHAMSHAH]; United Torah Judaism [Rabbi Eliezer SHACK,
  spiritual leader]; Yisra'el Ba'Aliya [Natan SHARANSKY]; Yisra'el
  Beiteinu [Avigdor LIEBERMAN]

Italy:
  Center-Left Olive Tree Coalition [Francesco RUTELLI] -
  Democrats of the Left, Daisy Alliance (including Italian Popular
  Party, Italian Renewal, Union of Democrats for Europe, The
  Democrats), Sunflower Alliance (including Green Federation, Italian
  Democratic Socialists), Italian Communist Party; Christian
  Democratic Center or CDC [Pier Ferdinando CASINI]; Christian
  Democratic Union or CDU [Rocco BUTTIGLIONE]; Communist Renewal or RC
  [Fausto BERTINOTTI]; Forza Italia or FI [Silvio BERLUSCONI]; Green
  Federation [Grazia FRANCESCATO]; House of Liberties (formerly
  Freedom Alliance, a center-right coalition) [leader Silvio
  BERLUSCONI] - Forza Italian, National Alliance, Christian Democratic
  Center, Christian Democratic Union, Northern League; Italian
  Communist Party or PdCI [Oliviero DILIBERTO]; Italian Democratic
  Socialists [Enrico BOSELLI]; Italian Popular Party [Pierluigi
  CASTAGNETTI]; Italian Renewal [Lamberto DINI]; Italian Social
  Movement-Tricolored Flame or MSI-FI [Pino RAUTI]; National Alliance
  or AN [Gianfranco FINI]; Northern League or NL [Umberto BOSSI];
  Radical Party (formerly Panella Reformers and Autonomous List)
  [Marco PANNELLA]; Southern Tyrols People's Party or SVP (German
  speakers) [Siegfried BRUGGER]; Union of Democrats for Europe
  [Clemente MASTELLA]; The Democrats [Arturo PARISI]

Jamaica:
  Jamaica Labor Party or JLP [Edward SEAGA]; National
  Democratic Movement or NDM [Bruce GOLDING]; People's National Party
  or PNP [Percival James PATTERSON]

Japan:
  Democratic Party of Japan or DPJ [Yukio HATOYAMA, leader,
  Naoto KAN, secretary general]; Japan Communist Party or JCP [Kazuo
  SHII, chairman, Tadaaki ICHIDA, secretary general]; Komeito
  [Takenori KANZAKI, president, Tetsuzo FUYUSHIBA, secretary general];
  Liberal Democratic Party or LDP [Junichiro KOIZUMI, president, Taku
  YAMASAKI, secretary general]; Liberal Party [Ichiro OZAWA,
  president, Hirohisa FUJII, secretary general]; New Conservative
  Party [Chikage OGI, president, Takeshi NODA, secretary general];
  Social Democratic Party or SDP [Takako DOI, chairperson, Sadao
  FUCHIGAMI, secretary general]

Jersey:
  none; all independents

Jordan:
  Al-Umma (Nation) Party [Ahmad al-HANANDEH, secretary
  general]; Arab Land Party [Dr. Muhammad al-'ORAN, secretary
  general]; Jordanian Democratic Popular Unity Party [Sa'eed THIYAB,
  secretary general]; National Constitutional Party [Abdul Hadi
  MAJALI, secretary general]

Kazakhstan:
  Agrarian Party [Romin MADENOV]; Alash [Soverkazhy
  AKATAYEV]; AZAMAT Movement [Petr SVOIK, Murat AUEZOV, and Galym
  ABILSIITOV, cochairmen]; Civic Party [Azat PERUASHEV, first
  secretary]; Communist Party or KPK [Serikbolsyn ABDILDIN, first
  secretary]; Forum of Democratic Forces [Nurbulat MASANOV, Deputy
  Chairman of the Republican People's Party of Kazakhstan (RNPK);
  Amirzhan KOSANOV, RNPK activist; Seidakhmet KUTTYKADAM, Orleu
  Movement; cochairmen]; Labor and Worker's Movement [Madel ISMAILOV,
  chairman]; Orleu Movement [Seidakhmet KUTTYKADAM]; Otan [Sergei
  TERESCHENKO, chairman]; Pensioners Movement or Pokoleniye [Irina
  SAVOSTINA, chairwoman]; People's Congress of Kazakhstan of NKK
  [Olzhas SULEIMENOV, chairman]; People's Cooperative Party [Umirzak
  SARSENOV]; People's Unity Party or PUP [Nursultan A. NAZARBAYEV];
  Republican People's Party of Kazakhstan or RNPK [Akezhan KAZHEGELDIN]

Kenya:
  Democratic Party of Kenya or DP [Mwai KIBAKI]; Forum for the
  Restoration of Democracy-Asili or FORD-A [Martin SHIKUKU, secretary
  general]; Forum for the Restoration of Democracy-Kenya or FORD-K
  [Michael Kijana WAMALWA]; Forum for the Restoration of
  Democracy-People or FORD-People [Kimaniwa NYOIKE, chairman]; Kenya
  African National Union or KANU [President Daniel Toroitich arap MOI]
  - the governing party; National Development Party or NDP [Raila
  ODINGA, president]; SAFINA [Farah MAALIM, chairman]; Social
  Democratic Party or SDP [Dr. Apollo NJONJO, secretary general and
  Justus NYANG'AYA, chairman]

Kiribati:
  Maneaban Te Mauri Party [Teburoro TITO]; National
  Progressive Party [Teatao TEANNAKI]

  note:  there is no tradition of formally organized political parties
  in Kiribati; they more closely resemble factions or interest groups
  because they have no party headquarters, formal platforms, or party
  structures

Korea, North:
  Chondoist Chongu Party [YU Mi-yong, chairwoman];
  Korean Social Democratic Party [KIM Pyong-sik, chairman]; major
  party - Korean Workers' Party or KWP [KIM Chong-il, General
  Secretary]

Korea, South:
  Grand National Party or GNP [YI Hoe-chang, president];
  Millennium Democratic Party or MDP [KIM Dae-jung, president]; United
  Liberal Democrats or ULD [KIM Chong-p'il, honorary chairman, KIM
  Chong-ho, acting president]

  note:  on 20 January 2000, the National Congress for New Politics or
  NCNP was renamed the Millennium Democratic Party or MDP

Kuwait:
  none; formation of political parties is illegal

Kyrgyzstan:
  Agrarian Labor Party of Kyrgyzstan [Uson S. SYDYKOV];
  Agrarian Party of Kyrgyzstan [Arkin ALIYEV]; Ata-Meken Socialist
  Party or Fatherland [Onurbek TEKEBAYEV]; Banner National Revival
  Party or ASABA [Chaprashty BAZARBAY]; Democratic Movement of
  Kyrgyzstan or DDK [Jypar JEKSHEYEV]; Democratic Women's Party of
  Kyrgyzstan [T. A. SHAILIYEVA]; Dignity Party [Feliks KULOV]; Erkin
  Kyrgyzstan Progressive and Democratic Party [Tursunbay Bakir UULU];
  Justice Party [Chingiz AYTMATOV]; Movement for the People's
  Salvation [Jumgalbek AMAMBAYEV]; Mutual Help Movement or Ashar
  [Jumagazy USUPOV]; My Country of Action [Almazbek ISMANKULOV];
  National Unity Democratic Movement or DDNE [Yury RAZGULYAYEV]; Party
  of Communists of Kyrgyzstan or KCP [Absamat M. MASALIYEV]; Party of
  the Veterans of the War in Afghanistan [leader NA]; Peasant Party
  [leader NA]; People's Party [Melis ESHIMKANOV]; Poor and Unprotected
  People's Party [Daniyar USENOV]; Republican Popular Party of
  Kyrgyzstan [J. SHARSHENALIYEV]; Social Democratic Party or PSD [J.
  IBRAMOV]; Union of Democratic Forces (composed of Social Democratic
  Party of Kyrgyzstan or PSD [J. IBRAMOV], Economic Revival Party, and
  Birimdik Party

Laos:
  Lao People's Revolutionary Party or LPRP [KHAMTAI Siphandon,
  party president]; other parties proscribed

Latvia:
  Anticommunist Union or PA [P. MUCENIEKS]; Christian Democrat
  Union or LKDS [Talavs JUNDZIS]; Christian People's Party or KTP
  [Uldis AUGSTKALNS]; Democratic Party "Saimnieks" or DPS [Ziedonis
  CEVERS, chairman]; For Fatherland and Freedom or TB [Maris
  GRINBLATS], merged with LNNK; For Human Rights in a United Latvia
  [Janis JURKANS], a coalition of the People's Harmony Party or TSP,
  the Latvian Socialist Party or LSP, and the Equal Rights Movement;
  Green Party or LZP [Olegs BATAREVSKI]; Latvian Liberal Party or LLP
  [J. DANOSS]; Latvian National Conservative Party or LNNK [Andrejs
  KRASTINS]; Latvian National Democratic Party or LNDP [A. MALINS];
  Latvian Social-Democratic Workers Party (Social Democrats) or LSDWU
  [Juris BOJARS and Janis ADAMSONS, leaders]; Latvian Unity Party or
  LVP [Alberis KAULS]; Latvia's Way or LC [Andrei PANTELEJEVS]; New
  Christian Party [Ainars SLESERS]; New Faction [Ingrida UDRE]; "Our
  Land" or MZ [M. DAMBEKALNE]; Party of Russian Citizens or LKPP [V.
  SOROCHIN, V. IVANOV]; People's Party [Andris SKELE]; Political Union
  of Economists or TPA [Edvins KIDE]

Lebanon:
  political party activity is organized along largely
  sectarian lines; numerous political groupings exist, consisting of
  individual political figures and followers motivated by religious,
  clan, and economic considerations

Lesotho:
  Basotho Congress Party or BCP [Tseliso MAKHAKHE]; Basotho
  National Party or BNP [Maj. Gen. Justine Metsing LEKHANYA]; Lesotho
  Congress for Democracy or LCD [Phebe MOTEBANO, chairwoman; Dr.
  Pakalitha MOSISILI, leader] - the governing party; United Democratic
  Party or UDP [Charles MOFELI]; Marematlou Freedom Party or MFP and
  Setlamo Alliance [Vincent MALEBO]; Progressive National Party or PNP
  [Chief Peete Nkoebe PEETE]; Sefate Democratic Party or SDP [Bofihla
  NKUEBE]

Liberia:
  All Liberia Coalition Party or ALCOP [Lusinee KAMARA];
  Liberian Action Party or LAP [Cletus WOTORSON]; Liberian National
  Union or LINU [Henry MONIBA, chairman]; Liberian People's Party or
  LPP [Togba-Nah TIPOTEH, chairman]; National Democratic Party of
  Liberia or NDPL [Isaac DAKINAH]; National Patriotic Party or NPP
  [Charles Ghankay TAYLOR] - governing party; People's Progressive
  Party or PPP [Chea CHEAPOO, chairman]; Reformation Alliance Party or
  RAP [Henry Boimah FAHNBULLEH, chairman]; True Whig Party or TWP
  [Rudolph SHERMAN, chairman]; United People's Party or UPP [Gabriel
  Baccus MATTHEWS, chairman]; Unity Party or UP [Charles Clarke]

Libya:
  none

Liechtenstein:
  Fatherland Union or VU [Dr. Oswald KRANZ];
  Progressive Citizens' Party or FBP [Dr. Ernst WALCH]; The Free List
  or FL [Dr. Pepo FRICK, Karin JENNY, Rene HASLER]

Lithuania:
  Christian Democratic Party or LKDP [Zigmas ZINKEVICIUS,
  chairman]; Electoral Action of Lithuanian Poles [Valdemar
  TOMASZEVSKI, chairman]; Homeland Union/Conservative Party or TS
  [Vytautas LANDSBERGIS, chairman]; Lithuanian Center Union or LCS
  [Kestutis GLAVECKAS, chairman]; Lithuanian Farmer's Party or LUP
  [Ramunas KARBAUSKIS, chairman]; Lithuanian Liberal Union [Rolandas
  PAKSAS, chairman]; Lithuanian Social Democratic Coalition [Algirdas
  BRAZAUSKAS, chairman] consists of the Lithuanian Democratic Labor
  Party or LDDP, the Lithuanian Social Democratic Party or LSPD, and
  New Democracy; Modern Christian Democratic Union [Vytautas BOGUSIS,
  chairman]; New Union-Social Liberals [Arturas PAULAUSKAS, chairman]

Luxembourg:
  Action Committee for Democracy and Justice or ADR
  [Robert MEHLEN]; Christian Social People's Party or CSV (known also
  as Christian Social Party or PCS) [Erna HENNICOT-SCHOEPGES];
  Democratic Party or DP [Lydie POLFER]; Green Party [Abbes JACOBY and
  Felix BRAS]; Luxembourg Socialist Workers' Party or LSAP [Jean
  ASSELBORN]; Marxist and Reformed Communist Party DEI LENK (the Left)
  [no formal leadership]; other minor parties

Macau:
  the following is a listing of those associations that
  participated in the last legislative elections: Associacao de Novo
  Macau Democratico or ANMD [leader NA]; Associacao Promotora para a
  Economia de Macau or APPEM [leader NA]; Convergencia para o
  Desenvolvimento or CODEM [leader NA]; Uniao Geral para o
  Desenvolvimento de Macau or UDM [leader NA]; Uniao para o
  Desenvolvimento or UPD [leader NA]; Uniao Promotora para o Progresso
  or UNIPRO [leader NA]

  note:  there are no formal political parties, but civic associations
  are used instead

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  Democratic Alternative
  or DA [Vasil TUPURKOVSKI, president]; Democratic Party for Albanians
  or DPA [Arben XHAFERI, president]; Internal Macedonian Revolutionary
  Organization - Democratic Party for Macedonian National Unity or
  VMRO-DPMNE [Ljubcho GEORGIEVSKI, president]; Internal Macedonian
  Revolutionary Organization-True Macedonian Reform Option or
  VMRO-VMRO [Boris STOJMANOV]; Liberal Democratic Party or LDP [Risto
  GUSTERVO]; Party for Democratic Prosperity or PDP [Imeri IMERI,
  president]; Social-Democratic Alliance of Macedonia or SDSM (former
  Communist Party) [Branko CRVENKOVSKI, president]; Socialist Party of
  Macedonia or SP [Ljubisav IVANOV, president]; Union of Romanies of
  Macedonia or SRM [leader NA]

Madagascar:
  Action, Truth, Development, and Harmony or AFFA
  [Professor Albert ZAFY]; Association for the Rebirth of Madagascar
  or AREMA [leader vacant]; Congress Party for Malagasy Independence
  or AKFM/Fanavaozana; Economic Liberalism and Democratic Action for
  National Recovery or LEADER/Fanilo [Herizo RAZAFIMAHALEO]; Fihaonana
  Rally or Fihaonana [Guy RAZANAMASY]; Group of Reflection and Action
  for the Development of Madagascar or GRAD/Iloafo; Judged by Your
  Work or AVI [Norbert RATSIRAHONANA]; Movement for the Progress of
  Madagascar or MFM [Manandafy RAKOTONIRINA]; Renewal of the Social
  Democratic Party or RPSD [Evariste MARSON]; Tranobe (Big House) [Ny
  Hasina ANDRIAMANJATO]

Malawi:
  Alliance for Democracy or AFORD [Chakufwa CHIHANA,
  president]; Malawi Congress Party or MCP [Gwanda CHAKUAMBA,
  president, John TEMBO, vice president]; Malawi Democratic Party or
  MDP [Kampelo KALUA, president]; National Independence Party; Social
  Democratic Party or SDP [Eston KAKHOME, president]; United
  Democratic Front or UDF [Bakili MULUZI] - governing party

Malaysia:
  Alternative Coalition or Barisan Alternatif-BA (includes
  the following parties: Party Islam Se-Malaysia or PAS [FADZIL
  Mohamad Noor], National Justice Party or NJP [WAN AZIZAH Wan
  Ismail], Democratic Action Party or DAP [LIM Kit Siang], and
  Malaysian People's Party or PRM [SYED HUSIN]); National Front or NF
  (ruling coalition dominated by the United Malays National
  Organization or UMNO [MAHATHIR bin Mohammad], includes the following
  parties: Malaysian Indian Congress or MIC [S. Samy VELLU], Malaysian
  Chinese Association or MCA [LING Liong Sik], Gerakan Rakyat Malaysia
  or Gerakan [LIM Keng Yaik], Parti Pesaka Bumiputra Bersatu or PBB
  [Patinggi Haji Abdul TAIB Mahmud], Parti Angkatan Keadilan Rakyat
  Bersatu or Akar [PANDIKAR Amin Mulia], Parti Bangsa Dayak Sarawak or
  PBDS [Leo MOGGIE], Sarawak United People's Party or SUPP [George
  CHAN Hong Nam], Liberal Democratic Party or LDP [CHONG Kah Kiat],
  Sabah Progressive Party or SAPP [YONG Teck Lee], People's
  Progressive Party or PPP [M. KAYVEAS], Parti Bersatu Rakyat Sabah or
  PBRS [Joseph KURUP], Sarawak National Party or SNAP [Amar James
  WONG], Parti Demokratik Sabah or PDS [leader NA], and United Pasok
  Momogun Kadazan Organization or UPKO (state level only) [Bernard
  DOMPOK]); Parti Bersatu Sabah or PBS [Joseph PAIRIN Kitingan]; Parti
  Bersekutu [HARRIS Salleh]; State Reform Party of Sarawak or STAR
  [PATAU Rubis]

Maldives:
  although political parties are not banned, none exist

Mali:
  Alliance for Democracy or ADEMA [Ibrahim Boubacar KEITA, party
  chairman]; Block of Alternative for the Renewal of Africa or BARA
  [Yoro DIAKITE]; Democratic and Social Convention or CDS [Mamadou
  Bakary SANGARE, chairman]; Movement for the Independence,
  Renaissance and Integration of Africa or MIRIA [Mohamed Lamine
  TRAORE, Mouhamedou DICKO]; National Congress for Democratic
  Initiative or CNID [Mountaga TALL, chairman]; Party for Democracy
  and Progress or PDP [Me Idrissa TRAORE]; Party for National Renewal
  or PARENA [Yoro DIAKITE, chairman; Tiebile DRAME, secretary
  general]; Rally for Democracy and Labor or RDT [Ali GNANGADO]; Rally
  for Democracy and Progress or RDP [Almamy SYLLA, chairman]; Sudanese
  Union/African Democratic Rally or US/RDA [Mamadou Bamou TOURE,
  secretary general]; Union of Democratic Forces for Progress or UFDP
  [Youssouf TOURE, secretary general]; Union for Democracy and
  Development or UDD [Moussa Balla COULIBALY]

Malta:
  Alternativa Demokratika/Alliance for Social Justice or AD
  [Harry VASSALLO]; Malta Labor Party or MLP [Alfred SANT];
  Nationalist Party or PN [Edward FENECH ADAMI]

Man, Isle of:
  there is no party system; members sit as independents

Marshall Islands:
  traditionally there have been no formally
  organized political parties; what has existed more closely resembles
  factions or interest groups because they do not have party
  headquarters, formal platforms, or party structures; the following
  two "groupings" have competed in legislative balloting in recent
  years - Kabua Party [Imata KABUA] and United Democratic Party or UDP
  [Litokwa TOMEING]

Martinique:
  Martinique Independence Movement or MIM [Alfred
  MARIE-JEANNE]; Martinique Progressive Party or PPM [Camille
  DARSIERES]; Martinique Socialist Party or PMS [Ernest WAN-AJOUHU];
  Rally for the Republic or RPR [Michel CHARLONE]; Union for French
  Democracy or UDF (replaced by Martinique Forces of Progress) [Jean
  MAREN]

Mauritania:
  Action for Change or AC [Messoud Ould BOULKHEIR];
  Assembly for Democracy and Unity or RDU [Ahmed Ould SIDI BABA];
  Democratic and Social Republican Party or PRDS (ruling party)
  [President Col. Maaouya Ould Sid Ahmed TAYA]; Mauritanian Party for
  Renewal and Concorde or PMRC [Molaye El Hassen Ould JIYID]; National
  Union for Democracy and Development or UNDD [Tidjane KOITA]; Party
  for Liberty, Equality and Justice or PLEJ [Daouda M'BAGNIGA];
  Popular Front or FP [Ch'bih Ould CHEIKH MALAININE]; Popular Progress
  Alliance or APP [Mohamed El Hafed Ould ISMAEL]; Popular Social and
  Democratic Union or UPSD [Mohamed Mahmoud Ould MAH]; Progress Force
  Union or UFP [Mohamed Ould MOLOUD]; Union for Progress and Democracy
  or UNDD [Naha Mint MOUKNASS]

  note:  parties legalized by constitution ratified 12 July 1991;
  however, politics continue to be tribally based

Mauritius:
  Hizbullah [Cehl Mohamed FAKEEMEEAH]; Mauritian Labor
  Party or MLP [Navinchandra RAMGOOLAM]; Mauritian Militant Movement
  or MMM [Paul BERENGER] - in coalition with MSM; Mauritian Militant
  Renaissance or MMR [Dr. Paramhansa NABABSING]; Mauritian Social
  Democrat Party or PMSD [Charles Xavier-Luc DUVAL]; Militant
  Socialist Movement or MSM [Sir Anerood JUGNAUTH] - governing party;
  Rodrigues Movement or OPR [Joseph (Nicholas) Von MALLY]

Mayotte:
  Democratic Front or FD [Youssouf MOUSSA]; Mahoran Popular
  Movement or MPM [Younoussa BAMANA]; Mahoran Rally for the Republic
  or RPR [Mansour KAMARDINE]; Movement for Department Status Mayotte
  or MDM [Henri JEAN-BAPTISTE]; Socialist Party or PS (local branch of
  French Parti Socialiste) [Ibrahim ABUBACAR]; Union for French
  Democracy or UDF [Henri JEAN-BAPTISTE]

Mexico:
  Convergence for Democracy or CD [Dante DELGADO Ranauro];
  Institutional Revolutionary Party or PRI [Dulce Maria SAURI
  Riancho]; Mexican Green Ecological Party or PVEM [Jorge GONZALEZ
  Torres]; National Action Party or PAN [Luis Felipe BRAVO Mena];
  Party of the Democratic Center or PCD [Manuel CAMACHO Solis]; Party
  of the Democratic Revolution or PRD [Amalia GARCIA Medina]; Party of
  the Nationalist Society or PSN [Gustavo RIOJAIS Santana]; Social
  Alliance Party or PAS [Jose Antonio CALDERON Cardoso]; Workers Party
  or PT [Alberto ANAYA Gutierrez]

Micronesia, Federated States of:
  no formal parties

Moldova:
  Braghis Alliance [Dumitru BRAGHIS]; Popular Christian
  Democratic Party or PPCD [Iurie ROSCA]; Communist Party or PCM
  [Vladimir VORONIN, first chairman]

Monaco:
  National and Democratic Union or UND [leader NA]; National
  Union for the Future of Monaco or UNAM [leader NA]; Rally for the
  Monegasque Family [leader NA]

Mongolia:
  Citizens' Will Party or CWP (also called Civil Will Party)
  [Sanjaasurengyn OYUN]; Democratic Party or DP [D. DORLIGAN];
  Mongolian People's Revolutionary Party or MPRP [Nambaryn ENKHBAYAR];
  Mongolian Democratic New Socialist Party or MDNSP [B. ERDENEBAT];
  Mongolian Republican Party or MRP [B. JARGALSAIHAN]

  note:  the MPRP is the ruling party

Montserrat:
  Movement for National Reconstruction or MNR [Percival
  Austin BRAMBLE]; National Development Party or NDP [leader NA];
  National Progressive Party or NPP [Reuben T. MEADE]; People's
  Progressive Alliance or PPA [John A. OSBORNE]

Morocco:
  Action Party or PA [Muhammad IDRISS]; Constitutional Union
  or UC [leader NA]; Democratic Forces Front or FFD [Thami KHIARI];
  Democratic Socialist Party or PSD [Issa OUARDIGHI]; Democratic Party
  for Independence or PDI [Thami EL-OUAZZANI, Said BOUACHRINE];
  Istiqlal Party or IP [Abbas El-FASSI]; Labor Party or UT [leader
  NA]; National Democratic Party or PND [Mohamed Arsalane EL-JADIDI];
  National Popular Movement or MNP [Mahjoubi AHERDANE]; National Rally
  of Independents or RNI [Ahmed OSMAN]; Organization of Democratic and
  Popular Action or OADP [Mohamed BEN SAID ait Idder]; Party of
  Progress and Socialism or PPS [Moulay Ismail ALAOUI]; Popular
  Constitutional and Democratic Movement or MPCD (has become Party of
  Justice and Development or PJD) [Dr. Abdelkarim KHATIB]; Popular
  Movement or MP [Mohamed LAENSER]; Social Democratic Movement or MDS
  [Mahmoud ARCHANE]; Socialist Union of Popular Forces or USFP [Abd
  ar-Rahman EL-YOUSSOUFI]

Mozambique:
  Front for the Liberation of Mozambique (Frente de
  Liberatacao de Mocambique) or Frelimo [Joaquim Alberto CHISSANO,
  chairman]; Mozambique National Resistance - Electoral Union
  (Resistencia Nacional Mocambicana - Uniao Eleitoral) or Renamo-UE
  [Afonso DHLAKAMA, president]

Namibia:
  Congress of Democrats or COD [Ben ULENGA]; Democratic
  Turnhalle Alliance of Namibia or DTA [Katuutire KAURA, president];
  Monitor Action Group or MAG [Kosie PRETORIUS]; South West Africa
  People's Organization or SWAPO [Sam NUJOMA]; United Democratic Front
  or UDF [Justus GAROEB]

Nauru:
  loose multiparty system; Democratic Party [Kennan ADEANG];
  Nauru Party (informal) [Bernard DOWIYOGO]

Nepal:
  Communist Party of Nepal/United Marxist-Leninist or CPN/UML
  [Madhav Kumar NEPAL, general secretary]; National Democratic Party
  or NDP (also called Rastriya Prajantra Party or RPP) [Surya Bahadur
  THAPA, chairman]; Nepal Sadbhavana (Goodwill) Party or NSP [Gajendra
  Narayan SINGH, president]; Nepal Workers and Peasants Party or NWPP
  [Narayan Man BIJUKCHHE, party chair]; Nepali Congress or NC [Girija
  Prasad KOIRALA, party president, Sushil KOIRALA, general secretary];
  Rastriya Jana Morcha [Chitra Bahadur K. C., chairman]; Samyukta
  Janmorcha Nepal [Lila Mani POKHAREL, general secretary]

Netherlands:
  Christian Democratic Appeal or CDA [Jaap de Hoop
  SCHEFFER]; Democrats '66 or D'66 [Tom DE GRAAF]; Labor Party or PvdA
  [Wim KOK]; People's Party for Freedom and Democracy (Liberal) or VVD
  [Hans F. DIJKSTAL]; a host of minor parties

Netherlands Antilles:
  Antillean Restructuring Party or PAR [Miguel
  POURIER]; C 93 [Stanley BROWN]; Democratic Party of Bonaire or PDB
  [Jopi ABRAHAM]; Democratic Party of Curacao or DP [Errol HERNANDEZ];
  Democratic Party of Sint Eustatius or DP-St. E [Julian WOODLEY];
  Democratic Party of Sint Maarten or DP-St. M [Sarah
  WESCOTT-WILLIAMS]; Foundation Energetic Management Anti-Narcotics or
  FAME [Eric LODEWIJKS]; Labor Party People's Crusade or PLKP [Errol
  COVA]; National People's Party or PNP [Susanne F. C. CAMELIA-ROMER];
  New Antilles Movement or MAN [Kenneth GIJSBERTHA]; Patriotic Union
  of Bonaire or UPB [Ramon BOOI]; Patriotic Movement of Sint Maarten
  or SPA [Vance JAMES, Jr.]; People's Party or PAPU [Richard Hodi];
  Pro Curacao Party or PPK [Winston LOURENS]; Saba Democratic Labor
  Movement [Steve HASSELL]; Saba Unity Party [Carmen SIMMONDS]; St.
  Eustatius Alliance or SEA [Kenneth VAN PUTTEN]; Serious Alternative
  People's Party or Sapp [Julian ROLLOCKS]; Social Action Cause or KAS
  [Benny DEMEI]; Windward Islands People's Movement or WIPM [Will
  JOHNSTON]; Workers' Liberation Front or FOL [Anthony GODETT, Rignald
  LAK, Editha WRIGHT]

  note:  political parties are indigenous to each island

New Caledonia:
  Alliance pour la Caledonie [Didier LEROUX];
  Developper Ensemble pour Construire l'Avenir or DEPCA [Robert
  FROUIN]; Federation des Comites de Coordination des Independantistes
  or FCCI [Leopald SOREDIE]; Front Uni de Liberation Kanak or FULK
  [Ernest UNE]; Groupe de l'Alliance Multiraciale or GAM [Dany
  DALMAYRAE]; Independance et Progres [Alphonse PUJAPUJANE]; Kanak
  Socialist Front for National Liberation or FLNKS [Rock WAMYTAN]
  (includes PALIKA, UNI, UC, and UPM); La Caledonie Autrement [Denis
  MILLIARD]; Loyalty Islands Development Front or FDIL [Cono HAMU];
  National Front or FN [Guy GEORGE]; Parti de Liberation Kanak or
  PALIKA [Charles WASHETINE]; Rally for Caledonia in the Republic or
  RPCR [Jacques LAFLEUR]; Rally for the Republic or RPR [leader NA];
  Renouveau [Thierry VALET]; Socialist Kanak Liberation or LKS
  [Nidoish NAISSELINE]; Union Caledonienne or UC [Bernard LEPEU];
  Union Nationale pour l'Independance or UNI [Paul NEAOUTYINE]; Union
  Progressiste Melanesienne or UPM [Andre GOPEA]

New Zealand:
  ACT, New Zealand [Richard PREBBLE]; Alliance (a
  coalition of the New Labor Party, Democratic Party, New Zealand
  Liberal Party, and Mana Motuhake) [Jim ANDERTON]; Green Party
  [Jeanette FITZSIMONS and Rod DONALD]; National Party or NP [Jenny
  SHIPLEY]; New Zealand First Party or NZFP [Winston PETERS]; New
  Zealand Labor Party or NZLP [Helen CLARK]; United New Zealand or UNZ
  [Peter DUNNE]

Nicaragua:
  Conservative Party of Nicaragua or PCN [Dr. Fernando
  AGUERO Rocha]; Independent Liberal Party or PLI [Virgilio GODOY];
  Liberal Alliance (ruling alliance including Liberal Constitutional
  Party or PLC, New Liberal Party or PALI, Independent Liberal Party
  for National Unity or PLIUN, and Central American Unionist Party or
  PUCA) [leader NA]; National Conservative Party or PC [Pedro
  SOLARZANO, Noel VIDAURRE]; National Project or PRONAL [Benjamin
  LANZAS]; Nicaraguan Party of the Christian Path or PCCN [Guillermo
  OSORNO, Roberto RODRIGUEZ]; Nicaraguan Resistance Party or PRN
  [Salvador TALAVERA]; Sandinista National Liberation Front or FSLN
  [Daniel ORTEGA Saavedra]; Sandinista Renovation Movement or MRS
  [Sergio RAMIREZ]; Unity Alliance or AU [Alejandro SERRANO]; Union
  Nacional Opositora 96 or UNO-96 [Alfredo CESAR Aguirre]

Niger:
  Democratic Rally of the People-Jama'a or RDP-Jama'a [Hamid
  ALGABID]; Democratic and Social Convention-Rahama or CDS-Rahama
  [Mahamane OUSMANE]; National Movement for a Developing
  Society-Nassara or MNSD-Nassara [Mamadou TANDJA, chairman]; Nigerien
  Alliance for Democracy and Social Progress-Zaman Lahiya or
  ANDPS-Zaman Lahiya [Moumouni Adamou DJERMAKOYE]; Nigerien Party for
  Democracy and Socialism-Tarayya or PNDS-Tarayya [Mahamadou
  ISSOUFOU]; Union of Democratic Patriots and Progressives-Chamoua or
  UPDP-Chamoua [Professor Andre' SALIFOU, chairman]

Nigeria:
  All People's Party or APP [Alhaji Yusuf ALI]; Alliance for
  Democracy or AD [contested between Yusuf MAMMAN and Alhasi Adamu
  ABDULKADIR]; People's Democratic Party or PDP [Barnabas GEMADE]

Niue:
  Niue People's Action Party or NPP [Sani LAKATANI]

Norfolk Island:
  none

Northern Mariana Islands:
  Democratic Party [Dr. Carlos S. CAMACHO];
  Republican Party [Benigno R. FITIAL]

Norway:
  Center Party [Odd Roger ENOKSEN]; Christian People's Party
  [Kiell Magne BONDEVIK]; Conservative Party [Jan PETERSEN]; Labor
  Party [Jens STOLTENBERG]; Liberal Party [Lars SPONHEIM]; Progress
  Party [Carl I. HAGEN]; Socialist Left Party [Kristin HALVORSEN]

Oman:
  none

Pakistan:
  note:  Gen. Pervez MUSHARRAF dissolved Parliament
  following the military takeover of 12 October 1999, however,
  political parties have been allowed to operate; Awami National Party
  or ANP [Wali KHAN]; Balochistan National Movement/Hayee Group or
  BNM/H [Dr. HAYEE Baluch]; Baluch National Party or BNP [Sardar
  Akhtar MENGAL]; Jamhoori Watan Party or JWP [Akbar Khan BUGTI];
  Jamiat-al-Hadith or JAH [Sajid MIR]; Jamiat Ulema-i-Islam, Fazlur
  Rehman faction or JUI/F [Fazlur REHMAN]; Jamiat Ulema-i-Pakistan,
  Niazi faction or JUP/NI [Abdul Sattar Khan NIAZI]; Millat Party
  [Farooq LEGHARI]; Milli Yakjheti Council or MYC is an umbrella
  organization which includes Jamaat-i-Islami or JI [Qazi Hussain
  AHMED], Jamiat Ulema-i-Islam, Sami-ul-Haq faction or JUI/S [Sami
  ul-HAQ], Tehrik-I-Jafria Pakistan or TJP [Allama Sajid NAQVI], and
  Jamiat Ulema-i-Pakistan, Noorani faction or JUP/NO [Shah Ahmad
  NOORANI]; Mutahida Qaumi Movement, Altaf faction or MQM/A [Altaf
  HUSSAIN]; National People's Party or NPP [Ghulam Mustapha JATOI];
  Pakhtun Khwa Milli Awami Party or PKMAP [Mahmood Khan ACHAKZAI];
  Pakhtun Quami Party or PQP [Mohammed AFZAL Khan]; Pakistan Awami
  Tehrik or PAT [Tahir ul QADRI]; Pakistan Muslim League, Functional
  Group or PML/F [Pir PAGARO]; Pakistan Muslim League, Junejo faction
  or PML/J [Hamid Nasir CHATTHA]; Pakistan Muslim League, Nawaz Sharif
  faction or PML/N [Nawaz SHARIF]; Pakistan National Party or PNP
  [Hasil BIZENJO]; Pakistan People's Party or PPP [Benazir BHUTTO];
  Pakistan People's Party/Shaheed Bhutto or PPP/SB [Ghinva BHUTTO];
  Pakistan Tehrik-e-Insaaf or PTI [Imran KHAN]

  note:  political alliances in Pakistan can shift frequently

Palau:
  Palau Nationalist Party [Johnson TORIBIONG]; Ta Belau Party
  [Kuniwo NAKAMURA]

Panama:
  Arnulfista Party or PA [Mireya Elisa MOSCOSO Rodriguez];
  Christian Democratic Party or PDC [Ruben AROSEMENA]; Civic Renewal
  Party or PRC [Serguei DE LA ROSA]; Democratic Change [Ricardo
  MARTINELLI]; Democratic Revolutionary Party or PRD [Martin
  TORRIJOS]; National Liberal Party or PLN [Raul ARANGO Gasteazopo];
  National Renovation Movement or MORENA [Pedro VALLARINO Cox];
  Nationalist Republican Liberal Movement or MOLIRENA [Ramon MORALES];
  Solidarity Party or PS [Samuel LEWIS Galindo]

Papua New Guinea:
  National Alliance or NA [Michael SOMARE]; National
  Party or NP [Michael MEL]; Papua New Guinea United Party or Pangu
  Pati [Chris HAIVETA]; People's Action Party or PAP [Ted DIRO];
  People's Democratic Movement or PDM [Sir Mekere MORAUTA]; People's
  National Congress or PNC [Simon KAUMI]; People's Progress Party or
  PPP [Michael NALI]; People's Unity Party or PUP [Alfred KAIABE];
  United Party or UP [Rimbiuk PATO]

Paraguay:
  Authentic Radical Liberal Party or PLRA [Miguel Abdon
  SAGUIER]; Christian Democratic Party or PDC [Adalina GUITERREZ DE
  GALEANO]; Febrerista Revolutionary Party or PRF [Carlos Maria
  LJUBETIC]; National Encounter or PEN [Euclides ACEVEDO]; National
  Republican Association - Colorado Party [acting president Bader
  RACHID LICHI]

Peru:
  American Popular Revolutionary Alliance or APRA [Alan GARCIA];
  Andean Rebirth [Ciro GALVEZ Herreria]; Avancemos [leader NA];
  Democratic Cause [Jorge SANTISTEVAN]; Independent Moralizing Front
  or FIM [Fernando OLIVERA Vega]; National Solidarity or SN [Luis
  CASTANEDA Lossio]; National Unity [Lourdes FLORES Nano]; Peru 2000
  [leader NA]; Peru Posible or PP [Alejandro TOLEDO Maniquez]; Popular
  Action or AP [leader NA]; Popular Agrarian Front of Peru or Frepap
  [leader NA]; Popular Solution [Carlos BOLONA Behr]; Project Country
  [Mario Antonio ARRUNATEGUI]; Somos Peru or SP [Alberto ANDRADE];
  Union for Peru or UPP [leader NA]; Vamos Vecinos or VV [Absalon
  VASQUEZ]

Philippines:
  People Power Coalition or PPC includes: Aksyon
  Demokratiko or Democratic Action [Raul ROCO], Lakas-NUCD [Gloria
  MACAPAGAL-ARROYO, titular head, Teofisto GUINGONA, party president],
  Liberal Party or LP [Florencio ABAD], Probinsiya Muna Development
  Initiative or Promdi [Lito OSMENA], and Reporma Party [Renato DE
  VILLA]; Puwersa ng Masa (Force of the Masses) includes: Laban Ng
  Demokratikong Pilipino (Struggle of Filipino Democrats) or LDP
  [Eduardo ANGARA], Laban Ng Masang Pilipino or LAMP (Struggle of the
  Filipino Masses) [Joseph ESTRADA], and People's Reform Party or PRP
  [Miriam DEFENSOR-SANTIAGO]; Kilusang Bagong Lipunan (New Society
  Movement) [Imelda MARCOS]; Nacionalista Party [Jose OLIVEROS];
  National People's Coalition or NPC [Eduardo COJUANGCO]

Pitcairn Islands:
  none

Poland:
  Coalition for Poland or KdP [first name unknown GRABOWSKI];
  Confederation for an Independent Poland-Patriotic Camp or KPN-OP
  (KPN-Fatherland or KPN-O is a small group within the KPN-OP) [Michal
  JANISZEWSKI]; Democratic Left Alliance or SLD (Social Democracy of
  Poland) [Leszek MILLER]; Freedom Union or UW [Bronislaw GEREMEK];
  German Minority of Lower Silesia or MNSO [Henryk KROLL]; Movement
  for the Reconstruction of Poland or ROP-PC [Jan OLSZEWSKI]; Polish
  Accord or PP [Jan LOPUSZANSKI]; Polish Peasant Party or PSL
  [Jaroslaw KALINOWSKI]; Polish Socialist Party or PPS [Piotr
  IKONOWICZ]; Solidarity Electoral Action or AWS (includes RS-AWS and
  Solidarity) [Marian KRZAKLEWSKI]; Social Movement-Solidarity
  Electoral Action or RS-AWS [Jerzy BUZEK]

Portugal:
  The Greens or PEV [leader NA]; Popular Party or PP [Paulo
  PORTAS]; Portuguese Communist Party/United Democratic Coalition or
  PCP/CDU [Carlos CARVALHAS]; Portuguese Socialist Party or PS
  [Antonio GUTERRES]; Social Democratic Party or PSD [leader vacant];
  The Left Bloc [no leader]

Puerto Rico:
  National Democratic Party [Celeste BENITEZ]; National
  Republican Party of Puerto Rico [Luis FERRE]; New Progressive Party
  or PNP [Pedro ROSSELLO]; Popular Democratic Party or PPD [Hector
  Luis ACEVEDO]; Puerto Rican Independence Party or PIP [Ruben BERRIOS
  Martinez]

Qatar:
  none

Reunion:
  Communist Party of Reunion or PCR [Paul VERGES]; Rally for
  the Republic or RPR [Andre Maurice PIHOUEE]; Socialist Party or PS
  [Jean-Claude FRUTEAU]; Union for French Democracy or UDF [Gilbert
  GERARD]

Romania:
  Democratic Party or PD [Petre ROMAN]; Democratic Union of
  Hungarians in Romania or UDMR [Bela MARKO]; National Liberal Party
  or PNL [Mircea IONESCU-QUINTUS]; Party of Social Democracy in
  Romania or PDSR [Adrian NASTASE]; Romania Mare Party (Greater
  Romanian Party) or PRM [Corneliu Vadim TUDOR]; The Democratic
  Convention or CDR [Ion DIACONESCU]

Russia:
  Agrarian Party [Mikhail Ivanovich LAPSHIN]; Communist Party
  of the Russian Federation or KPRF [Gennadiy Andreyevich ZYUGANOV];
  Fatherland-All Russia or OVR [Yuriy Mikhailovich LUZHKOV]; Liberal
  Democratic Party of Russia or LDPR [Vladimir Volfovich
  ZHIRINOVSKIY]; Union of Right Forces [Anatoliy Borisovich CHUBAYS,
  Yegor Timurovich GAYDAR, Irina Mutsuovna KHAKAMADA, Boris Yefimovich
  NEMTSOV]; Unity [Sergey Kuzhugetovich SHOYGU]; Yabloko Bloc
  [Grigoriy Alekseyevich YAVLINSKIY]

  note:  some 150 political parties, blocs, and movements registered
  with the Justice Ministry as of the 19 December 1998 deadline to be
  eligible to participate in the 19 December 1999 Duma elections; of
  these, 36 political organizations actually qualified to run slates
  of candidates on the Duma party list ballot, 6 parties cleared the
  5% threshold to win a proportional share of the 225 party seats in
  the Duma, 9 other organizations hold seats in the Duma: Bloc of
  Nikolayev and Academician Fedorov, Congress of Russian Communities,
  Movement in Support of the Army, Our Home Is Russia, Party of
  Pensioners, Power to the People, Russian All-People's Union, Russian
  Socialist Party, and Spiritual Heritage; primary political blocs
  include pro-market democrats - (Yabloko Bloc and Union of Right
  Forces), anti-market and/or ultranationalist (Communist Party of the
  Russian Federation and Liberal Democratic Party of Russia)

Rwanda:
  Centrist Democratic Party or PDC [Jean-Nipomuscene
  NAYINZIRA]; Democratic Socialist Party or PSD [Charles NTAKIRUTINKA,
  Vincent BIRUTA, Augusin IYAMUREMYE]; Democratic Popular Union of
  Rwanda or UDPR [Adrien RANGIRA]; Democratic Republican Movement or
  MDR [Celestin KABANDA, Emile NTWARABAKIGA, Christian MARARA];
  Islamic Democratic Party or PDI [Andre BUMAYA]; Liberal Party or PL
  [Pie MUGABO, Enock KABERA, Prosper MUGIRANEZA]; Rwanda Patriotic
  Army or RPA [Maj. Gen. Paul KAGAME, commander]; Rwanda Patriotic
  Front or FPR [Maj. Gen. Paul KAGAME]; Rwandan Socialist Party or PSR
  [Medard RUTIJANWA]

Saint Helena:
  none

Saint Kitts and Nevis:
  Concerned Citizens Movement or CCM [Vance
  AMORY]; Nevis Reformation Party or NRP [Joseph PARRY]; People's
  Action Movement or PAM [Lindsey GRANT]; Saint Kitts and Nevis Labor
  Party or SKNLP [Dr. Denzil DOUGLAS]

Saint Lucia:
  National Freedom Party or NFP [Martinus FRANCOIS];
  Saint Lucia Labor Party or SLP [Kenneth ANTHONY]; United Workers
  Party or UWP [Dr. Morella JOSEPH]

Saint Pierre and Miquelon:
  Rassemblement pour la Republique or RPR
  [leader NA]; Socialist Party or PS [leader NA]; Union pour la
  Democratie Francaise or UDF [leader NA]

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:
  National Reform Party or NRP [Joel
  MIGUEL]; New Democratic Party or NDP [Arnhim EUSTACE]; People's
  Progressive Movement or PPM [Ken BOYEA]; Progressive Labor Party or
  PLP [leader NA]; United People's Movement or UPM [Adrian SAUNDERS];
  Unity Labor Party or ULP [Ralph GONSALVES] (formed by the coalition
  of Saint Vincent Labor Party or SVLP and the Movement for National
  Unity or MNU)

Samoa:
  Human Rights Protection Party or HRPP [TUILA'EPA Sailele
  Malielegaoi, chairman]; Samoa All People's Party or SAPP [Matatumua
  NAIMOAGA]; Samoan National Development Party or SNDP [TAPUA Tamasese
  Efi, chairman] (opposition); Samoa National Party [FETU Tiatia,
  party secretary]; Samoan Progressive Conservative Party [LEOTA Ituau
  Ale]

San Marino:
  Communist Refoundation or RC [Ivan FOSHI]; Ideas in
  Movement or IM [Alessandro ROSSI]; San Marino Christian Democratic
  Party or PDCS [Pier Marino MENICUCCI]; San Marino Popular Alliance
  of Democrats or APDS [Mario VENTURINI]; San Marino Progressive
  Democratic Party or PPDS [Claudio FELICI]; San Marino Socialist
  Party or PSS [Augusto CASALI]; Socialists for Reform or SR [Renzo
  GIARDI]

Sao Tome and Principe:
  Independent Democratic Action or ADI [Carlos
  NEVES]; Movement for the Liberation of Sao Tome and Principe-Social
  Democratic Party or MLSTP-PSD [Manuel Pinto Da COSTA]; Party for
  Democratic Convergence or PCD [Aldo BANDEIRA]; Democratic Renovation
  Party [Armindo GRACA]; other small parties

Saudi Arabia:
  none allowed

Senegal:
  African Party for Democracy and Socialism or And Jef (also
  known as PADS/AJ) [Landing SAVANE, secretary general]; African Party
  of Independence [Majhemout DIOP]; Alliance of Forces of Progress or
  AFP [Moustapha NIASSE]; Democratic and Patriotic Convention or CDP
  (also known as Garab-Gi) [Dr. Iba Der THIAM]; Democratic
  League-Labor Party Movement or LD-MPT [Dr. Abdoulaye BATHILY]; Front
  for Socialism and Democracy or FSD [Cheikh Abdoulaye DIEYE]; Gainde
  Centrist Bloc or BGC [Jean-Paul DIAS]; Independence and Labor Party
  or PIT [Amath DANSOKHO]; National Democratic Rally or RND [Madier
  DIOUF]; Senegalese Democratic Party or PDS [Abdoulaye WADE];
  Senegalese Democratic Party-Renewal or PDS-R [Serigne Lamine DIOP,
  secretary general]; Senegalese Democratic Union-Renewal or UDS-R
  [Mamadou Puritain FALL]; Socialist Party or PS [President Abdou
  DIOUF]; SOPI Coalition (a 40-party coalition led by the PDS)
  [Abdoulaye WADE]; Union for Democratic Renewal or URD [Djibo Leyti
  KA]; other small parties

Seychelles:
  Democratic Party or DP [James MANCHAM]; Seychelles
  National Party or SNP (formerly the United Opposition or UO) [Wavel
  RAMKALAWAN]; Seychelles People's Progressive Front or SPPF [France
  Albert RENE] - the governing party

Sierra Leone:
  All People's Congress or APC [Edward Mohammed TURAY,
  chairman]; Democratic Centre Party or DCP [Adu Aiah KOROMA];
  National Democratic Alliance or NDA [Amadu M. B. JALLOH]; National
  Republican Party or NRP [Sahr Stephen MAMBU]; National Unity Party
  or NUP [Dr. John KARIMU, chairman]; People's Democratic Party or PDP
  [Thaimu BANGURA, chairman]; People's Progressive Party or PPP [Abass
  Chernok BUNDU, chairman]; Revolutionary United Front Party or RUFP
  [Foday SANKOH, chairman]; Sierra Leone People's Party or SLPP
  [President Ahmad Tejan KABBAH, chairman]; United National People's
  Party or UNPP [John KARIFA-SMART in exile, Raymond KAMARA, acting
  leader]

Singapore:
  People's Action Party or PAP [GOH Chok Tong, secretary
  general] - the governing party; Singapore Democratic Party or SDP
  [CHEE Soon Juan]; Singapore People's Party or SPP [CHIAM See Tong];
  Workers' Party or WP [J. B. JEYARETNAM]

Slovakia:
  Christian Democratic Movement or KDH [Pavol HRUSOVSKY];
  Liberal Democratic Union or LDU [Jan BUDAJ]; Movement for a
  Democratic Slovakia or HZDS [Vladimir MECIAR]; Party of Civic
  Understanding or SOP [Pavol HAMZIK]; Party of the Democratic Left or
  SDL [Jozef MIGAS]; Party of the Hungarian Coalition or SMK [Bela
  BUGAR]; Slovak Democratic and Christian Union or SDKU [Mikulas
  DZURINDA]; note - this is DZURINDA's new party for 2002 elections;
  he remains chairman of a rump and splintering SDK; Slovak Democratic
  Coalition or SDK (loose parliamentary club grouping representing
  members of the smaller SSDS, SZS, and those committed to run under
  SDKU in 2002) [Mikulas DZURINDA]; Slovak National Party or SNS [Anna
  MALIKOVA]

Slovenia:
  Democratic Party of Retired (Persons) of Slovenia or DeSUS
  [Janko KUSAR]; Liberal Democratic or LDS [Janez DRNOVSEK, chairman];
  New Slovenia or NSI [Andrej BAJUK, chairman]; Slovene National Party
  or SNS [Zmago JELINCIC, chairman]; Slovene People's Party or SLS
  (Slovenian People's Party or SLS and Slovenian Christian Democrats
  or SKD merged in April 2000) [Franc ZAGOZEN, chairman]; Slovene
  Youth Party or SMS [leader NA]; Social Democratic Party of Slovenia
  or SDS [Janez JANSA, chairman]; United List of Social Democrats
  (former Communists and allies) or ZLSD [Borut PAHOR, chairman]

Solomon Islands:
  there are two main coalitions - Coalition for
  National Unity, Reconciliation, and Peace or CNURP and Alliance for
  Change; the CNURP took power on 30 June 2000, it comprises members
  of the Liberal Party, People's Alliance Party, and the United Party,
  as well as a number of independents; the Alliance for Change,
  represents the former government and now is the opposition; in
  general, Solomon Islands politics is characterized by fluid
  coalitions; Group for National Unity and Reconciliation or GNUR
  [leader NA]; Liberal Party [Bartholomew ULUFA'ALU]; National Action
  Party of Solomon Islands or NAPSI [Francis SAEMALA]; People's
  Alliance Party or PAP [George LEPPING]; People's Progressive Party
  [Mannaseh Damukana SOGAVARE]; Solomon Islands Labor Party or SILP
  [Joses TUHANUKU]; United Party or UP [leader NA]

Somalia:
  none

South Africa:
  African Christian Democratic Party or ACDP [Kenneth
  MESHOE, president]; African National Congress or ANC [Thabo MBEKI,
  president]; Democratic Alliance (formed from the merger of the
  Democratic Party or DP and the New National Party or NP) [Anthony
  LEON, leader]; Freedom Front or FF [Constand VILJOEN, president];
  Inkatha Freedom Party or IFP [Mangosuthu BUTHELEZI, president];
  Pan-Africanist Congress or PAC [Stanley MOGOBA, president]; United
  Democratic Movement or UDM [Bantu HOLOMISA]

Spain:
  Basque Nationalist Party or PNV [Xabier ARZALLUS Antia];
  Canarian Coalition or CC (a coalition of five parties) [Paulino
  RIVERO]; Convergence and Union or CiU [Jordi PUJOL i Soley,
  secretary general] (a coalition of the Democratic Convergence of
  Catalonia or CDC [Jordi PUJOL i Soley] and the Democratic Union of
  Catalonia or UDC [Josep Antoni DURAN y LLEIDA]); Galician
  Nationalist Bloc or BNG [Xose Manuel BEIRAS]; Party of Independents
  from Lanzarote or PIL [Dimas MARTIN Martin]; Popular Party or PP
  [Jose Maria AZNAR Lopez]; Spanish Socialist Workers Party or PSOE
  [Jose Luis Rodriguez ZAPATERO]; United Left or IU (a coalition of
  parties including the PCE and other small parties) [Gaspar
  LLAMAZARES]

Sri Lanka:
  All Ceylon Tamil Congress or ACTC [Nalliah GURUPAUAN];
  Ceylon Workers Congress or CLDC [Arumugam THONDAMAN]; Communist
  Party [Raja COLLURE]; Democratic United National (Lalith) Front or
  DUNLF [Srimani ATHULATHMUDALI]; Eelam People's Democratic Party or
  EPDP [Douglas DEVANANDA]; Eelam People's Revolutionary Liberation
  Front or EPRLF [Suresh PREMACHANDRA]; Janatha Vimukthi Peramuna or
  JVP [Tilvan SILVA]; National Unity Alliance or NUA [leader NA];
  People's Alliance or PA [Chandrika Bandaranaike KUMARATUNGA];
  People's Liberation Organization of Tamil Eelam or PLOTE [D.
  SIDDATHAN]; Sihala Urumaya or SU [leader NA]; Sri Lanka Freedom
  Party or SLFP [Chandrika Bandaranaike KUMARATUNGA]; Sri Lanka Muslim
  Congress or SLMC [Rauff HAKEEM and Ferial ASHRAFF]; Sri Lanka
  Progressive Front or SLPF [leader NA]; Tamil Eelam Liberation
  Organization or TELO [SUBRAMANIUM]; Tamil United Liberation Front or
  TULF [R. SAMPATHAN]; United National Party or UNP [Ranil
  WICKREMASINGHE]; Upcountry People's Front or UPF [P.
  CHANDRASEKARAN]; several ethnic Tamil and Muslim parties,
  represented in either parliament or provincial councils

Sudan:
  the government allows political "associations" under a 1998
  law revised in 2000; to obtain government approval parties must
  accept the constitution and refrain from advocating or using
  violence against the regime; approved parties include the National
  Congress Party or NCP [Ibrahim Ahmed UMAR], Popular National
  Congress [Hassan al-TURABI], and a handful of minor pro-government
  parties

Suriname:
  Democratic Alternative '91 or DA '91 (a coalition of the
  Alternative Forum or AF and Party for Brotherhood and Unity in
  Politics or BEP, formed in January 1991) [S. RAMKHELAWAN];
  Democratic National Platform 2000 or DNP 2000 (coalition of two
  parties, Democratic Party and Democrats of the 21st Century) [Jules
  WIJDENBOSCH]; Independent Progressive Democratic Alternative or OPDA
  [Joginder RAMKHILAWAN]; Millennium Combination or MC (a coalition of
  three parties, Democratic Alternative, Party for National Unity and
  Solidarity, and National Democratic Party) [leader NA]; National
  Democratic Party or NDP [Desire BOUTERSE]; Naya Kadam or NK [leader
  NA]; Party for Renewal and Democracy or BVD [Tjan GOBARDHAN]; Party
  of National Unity and Solidarity or KTPI [Willy SOEMITA]; Pertjaja
  Luhur [Paul SOMOHARDJO]; Progressive Workers' and Farm Laborers'
  Union or PALU [Ir Iwan KROLIS]; The New Front or NF (a coalition of
  four parties Suriname National Party or NPS, Progressive Reform
  Party or VHP, Suriname Labor Party or SPA, and Pertjaja Luhur)
  [Ronald R. VENETIAAN]; The Progressive Development Alliance (a
  combination of three parties, Renewed Progressive Party or HPP,
  Party of the Federation of Land Workers or PVF, and Suriname
  Progressive People's Party or PSV) [Harry KISOENSINGH]

Swaziland:
  Imbokodvo National Movement or INM [leader NA]; Ngwane
  National Libertatory Congress or NNLC [Obed DLAMINI, president];
  People's United Democratic Movement or PUDEMO [Mario MASUKU,
  president]; Swaziland National Front or SWANAFRO [Elmond SHONGWE,
  president]; Swaziland Progressive Party or SPP [J. J. NQUKU,
  president]; Swaziland United Front or SUF [Matsapa SHONGWE, leader]

  note:  political parties are banned by the constitution promulgated
  on 13 October 1978; illegal parties are prohibited from holding
  large public gatherings; the organizations listed are political
  associations

Sweden:
  Center Party [Lennart DALEUS]; Christian Democratic Party
  [Alf SVENSSON]; Communist Workers' Party [Rolf HAGEL]; Green Party
  [no formal leader but party spokesperson is Briger SCHLAUG]; Left
  Party or VP (formerly Communist) [Gudrun SCHYMAN]; Liberal People's
  Party [Lars LEIJONBORG]; Moderate Party (conservative) [Bo
  LUNDGREN]; New Democracy Party [Vivianne FRANZEN]; Social Democratic
  Party [Goran PERSSON]

Switzerland:
  Christian Democratic People's Party
  (Christichdemokratische Volkspartei der Schweiz or CVP, Parti
  Democrate-Chretien Suisse or PDC, Partito Democratico-Cristiano
  Popolare Svizzero or PDC, Partida Cristiandemocratica dalla Svizra
  or PCD) [Adalbert DURRER, president]; Green Party (Grune Partei der
  Schweiz or Grune, Parti Ecologiste Suisse or Les Verts, Partito
  Ecologista Svizzero or I Verdi, Partida Ecologica Svizra or La
  Verda) [Ruedi BAUMANN, president]; Radical Free Democratic Party
  (Freisinnig-Demokratische Partei der Schweiz or FDP, Parti
  Radical-Democratique Suisse or PRD, Partitio Liberal-Radicale
  Svizzero or PLR) [Franz STEINEGGER, president]; Social Democratic
  Party (Sozialdemokratische Partei der Schweiz or SPS, Parti
  Socialist Suisse or PSS, Partito Socialista Svizzero or PSS, Partida
  Socialdemocratica de la Svizra or PSS) [Christiane BRUNNER,
  president]; Swiss People's Party (Schweizerische Volkspartei or SVP,
  Union Democratique du Centre or UDC, Unione Democratica de Centro or
  UDC, Uniun Democratica dal Center or UDC) [Ueli MAURER, president];
  and other minor parties

Syria:
  National Progressive Front or NPF (includes the Ba'th Party,
  ASU, Arab Socialist Party, Socialist Unionist Democratic Party, ASP,
  SCP) [President Bashar al-ASAD]; Arab Socialist Renaissance (Ba'th)
  Party (governing party) [Bashar al-ASAD, secretary general of the
  party, and chairman of the National Progressive Front after the
  death of Hafiz al-ASAD on 10 June 2000]; Arab Socialist Unionist
  Movement or ASU [Sami SOUFAN]; Arab Socialist Party [Abd al-Ghani
  KANNUT]; Socialist Unionist Democratic Party [Ahmad al-ASAD]; Syrian
  Arab Socialist Party or ASP [Safwan KOUDSI]; Syrian Communist Party
  or SCP [Yusuf FAYSAL]

Tajikistan:
  Congress of People's Unity of Tajikistan [Saiffidin
  TURAYEV]; Democratic Party or TDP [Mahmadruzi ISKANDAROV, chairman];
  Islamic Rebirth Party [Muhammadsharif HIMMAT-ZODA, chairman]; Lali
  Badakhshan Movement [Atobek AMIRBEKOV]; National Movement Party
  [Hakim MUHHABATOV]; Party of Justice and Development [Rahmatullo
  ZOIROV]; People's Democratic Party of Tajikistan or PDPT [Emomali
  RAHMONOV]; Rastokhez (Rebirth) Movement [Tohiri ABDUJABBOR];
  Socialist Party [Sherali KENJAEV]; Tajik Communist Party or CPT
  [Shodi SHABDOLOV]; Adolatho "Justice" Party [Abdurahmon KARIMOV,
  chairman]

Tanzania:
  Chama Cha Demokrasia na Maendeleo or CHADEMA [Bob MAKANI,
  chairman]; Chama Cha Mapinduzi or CCM (Revolutionary Party)
  [Benjamin William MKAPA, chairman]; Civic United Front or CUF [Seif
  Sharif HAMAD, secretary-general]; Democratic Party (unregistered)
  [Reverend Christopher MTIKLA, leader]; National Convention for
  Construction and Reform or NCCR [Kassim MAGUTU, secretary-general];
  Tanzania Labor Party or TLP [Augustine Lyatonga MREMA, chairman];
  Union for Multiparty Democracy or UMD [leader NA]; United Democratic
  Party or UDP [John CHEYO, leader]

Thailand:
  Democratic Party or DP (Prachathipat Party) [CHUAN
  Likphai]; Liberal Democratic Party or LDP (Seri Tham) [PHINIT
  Charusombat]; Mass Party or MP [CHALERM Yoobamrung, SOPHON
  Petchsavang]; National Development Party or NDP (Chat Phattana)
  [KORN Dabbaransi]; New Aspiration Party or NAP (Khwamwang Mai) [Gen.
  CHAWALIT Yongchaiyut]; Phalang Dharma Party or PDP (Phalang Tham)
  [CHAIWAT Sinsuwong]; Social Action Party or SAP (Kitsangkhom Party)
  [leader vacant]; Solidarity Party or SP (Ekkaphap Party) [CHAIYOT
  Sasomsap]; Thai Citizen's Party or TCP (Prachakon Thai) [SAMAK
  Sunthonwet]; Thai Nation Party or TNP (Chat Thai Party) [BANHAN
  Sinlapa-acha]; Thai Rak Thai Party or TRT [THAKSIN Chinnawat]

Togo:
  Action Committee for Renewal or CAR [Yawovi AGBOYIBO];
  Coordination des Forces Nouvelles or CFN [Joseph KOFFIGOH];
  Democratic Convention of African Peoples or CDPA [Leopold GNININVI];
  Party for Democracy and Renewal or PDR [Zarifou AYEVA]; Patriotic
  Pan-African Convergence or CPP [Edem KODJO]; Rally of the Togolese
  People or RPT [President Gen. Gnassingbe EYADEMA]; Union of Forces
  for Change or UFC [Gilchrist OLYMPIO (in exile), Jeane-Pierre FABRE,
  general secretary in Togo]; Union of Independent Liberals or ULI
  [Jacques AMOUZO]

  note:  Rally of the Togolese People or RPT, led by President
  EYADEMA, was the only party until the formation of multiple parties
  was legalized 12 April 1991

Tokelau:
  none

Tonga:
  Human Rights and Democracy Movement [Huliki WATAB, chairman,
  Viliami FUKOFUKA, president, 'Akilisi POHIVA, vice president]

Trinidad and Tobago:
  National Alliance for Reconstruction or NAR
  [Hochay CHARLES]; People's Empowerment Party or PEP [leader NA];
  People's National Movement or PNM [Patrick MANNING]; United National
  Congress or UNC [Basdeo PANDAY]

Tunisia:
  Al-Tajdid Movement [Adel CHAOUCH]; Constitutional
  Democratic Rally Party (Rassemblement Constitutionnel Democratique)
  or RCD [President Zine El Abidine BEN ALI (official ruling party)];
  Liberal Social Party or PSL [Mounir BEJI]; Movement of Democratic
  Socialists or MDS [Khamis CHAMMARI]; Popular Unity Party or PUP
  [Mohamed Belhaj AMOR]; Unionist Democratic Union or UDU
  [Abderrahmane TLILI]

Turkey:
  Democratic Left Party or DSP [Bulent ECEVIT]; Motherland
  Party or ANAP [Mesut YILMAZ]; Nationalist Action Party or MHP
  [Devlet BAHCELI]; True Path Party or DYP [Tansu CILLER]; Virtue
  Party or FP [Recai KUTAN]; note - in June 2001, Turkey's
  Constitutional Court banned the party; its representatives (except
  for two) can stay on in the Grand National Assembly as independents

  note:  Welfare Party or RP [Necmettin ERBAKAN] was officially
  outlawed on 22 February 1998

Turkmenistan:
  Democratic Party of Turkmenistan or DPT [Saparmurat
  NIYAZOV]

  note:  formal opposition parties are outlawed; unofficial, small
  opposition movements exist underground or in foreign countries

Turks and Caicos Islands:
  People's Democratic Movement or PDM [Derek
  H. TAYLOR]; Progressive National Party or PNP [Washington MISICK];
  United Democratic Party or UDP [Wendal SWANN]

Tuvalu:
  there are no political parties but members of Parliament
  usually align themselves in informal groupings

Uganda:
  only one political organization, the National Resistance
  Movement or NRM [President MUSEVENI, chairman] is allowed to operate
  unfettered; note - the president maintains that the NRM is not a
  political party, but a movement which claims the loyalty of all
  Ugandans

  note:  the new constitution requires the suspension of political
  parties while the Movement system is in governanace; of the
  political parties that exist but are prohibited from sponsoring
  candidates, the most important are the Ugandan People's Congress or
  UPC [Milton OBOTE]; Democratic Party or DP [Paul SSEMOGERERE];
  Conservative Party or CP [Joshua S. MAYANJA-NKANGI]; Justice Forum
  [Muhammad Kibirige MAYANJA]; and National Democrats Forum [Chapaa
  KARUHANGA]

Ukraine:
  Communist Party of Ukraine [Petro SYMONENKO]; Fatherland
  (Motherland) All Ukrainian Party [Yuliya TYMOSHENKO, chairperson];
  Green Party of Ukraine or PZU [Vitaliy KONONOV, chairman]; Hromada
  [Pavlo LAZARENKO]; Party of Regional Revival of Ukraine or PRVU
  [Volodymyr RYBAK]; Peasant Party of Ukraine or SelPU [Serhiy
  DOVHAN]; People's Democratic Party [Valeriy PUSTOVOYTENKO,
  chairman]; People's Movement of Ukraine or Rukh U [Hennadiy
  UDOVENKO, chairman]; Progressive Socialist Party [Nataliya
  VITRENKO]; Reforms and Order Party/Reforms-Congress [Viktor
  PYNZENYK]; Socialist Party of Ukraine or SPU [Oleksandr MOROZ,
  chairman]; Solidarity [leader NA]; Trudova Ukrayina/Working Ukraine
  [Igor SHAROV, chairman]; Ukrainian Popular Movement or Rukh K [Yuriy
  KOSTENKO, chairman]; United Social Democratic Party of Ukraine
  [Viktor MEDVEDCHUK]

  note:  and numerous smaller parties

United Arab Emirates:
  none

United Kingdom:
  Conservative and Unionist Party [William HAGUE];
  Democratic Unionist Party (Northern Ireland) [Rev. Ian PAISLEY];
  Labor Party [Anthony (Tony) Blair]; Liberal Democrats [Charles
  KENNEDY]; Party of Wales (Plaid Cymru) [Ieuan Wyn JONES]; Scottish
  National Party or SNP [John SWINNEY]; Sinn Fein (Northern Ireland)
  [Gerry ADAMS]; Social Democratic and Labor Party or SDLP (Northern
  Ireland) [John HUME]; Ulster Unionist Party (Northern Ireland)
  [David TRIMBLE]

United States:
  Democratic Party [Terence McAULIFFE, national
  committee chairman]; Republican Party [James S. GILMORE III,
  national committee chairman]; several other groups or parties of
  minor political significance

Uruguay:
  Colorado Party [Jorge BATLLE]; National Party or Blanco
  [Alberto VOLONTE]; New Sector/Space Coalition or Nuevo Espacio
  [Rafael MICHELINI]; Progressive Encounter in the Broad Front or
  Encuentro Progresista [Tabare VAZQUEZ]

Uzbekistan:
  Adolat (Justice) Social Democratic Party [Anwar
  JURABAYEV, first secretary]; Democratic National Rebirth Party
  (Milly Tiklanish) or MTP [Aziz KAYUMOV, chairman]; Fatherland
  Progress Party [Anwar Z. YOLDASHEV]; People's Democratic Party or
  NDP (formerly Communist Party) [Abdulkhafiz JALOLOV, first
  secretary]; Self-Sacrificers Party or Fidokorlar National Democratic
  Party [Ahtam TURSUNOV, first secretary]

Vanuatu:
  Melanesian Progressive Party or MPP [Barak SOPE]; National
  United Party or NUP [Willie TITONGOA]; Union of Moderate Parties or
  UMP [Serge VOHOR]; Vanuaaku Party (Our Land Party) or VP [Edward
  NATAPEI]; Vanuatu Republican Party [Maxime Carlot KORMAN]

Venezuela:
  Brave Peoples Alliance or ABP [leader NA]; Democratic
  Action or AD [Henry RAMOS Allup]; Fifth Republic Movement or MVR
  [leader Luis MIQUILENA]; Homeland for All or PPT [Pablo MEDINA];
  Justice First [leader NA]; Movement Toward Socialism or MAS [Felipe
  MUJICA]; National Convergence or Convergencia [Dr. Rafael CALDERA
  Rodriguez]; Radical Cause or La Causa R [Andres VELASQUEZ]; Social
  Christian Party or COPEI [Jose CURIEL]; Venezuela Project or PV
  [Henrique SALAS Ronier]

Vietnam:
  only party - Communist Party of Vietnam or CPV [Le Kha
  PHIEU, general secretary]

Virgin Islands:
  Democratic Party [Arturo WATLINGTON]; Independent
  Citizens' Movement or ICM [Usie RICHON]; Republican Party [Gary
  SCROUVE]

Wallis and Futuna:
  Lua Kae Tahi (Giscardians) [leader NA]; Mouvement
  des Radicaux de Gauche or MRG [leader NA]; Rally for the Republic or
  RPR [Clovis LOGOLOGOFOLAU]; Taumu'a Lelei [Soane Muni UHILA]; Union
  Populaire Locale or UPL [Falakiko GATA]; Union Pour la Democratie
  Francaise or UDF [leader NA]

Yemen:
  there are over 12 political parties active in Yemen, some of
  the more prominent are: General People's Congress or GPC [President
  Ali Abdallah SALIH]; Islamic Reform Grouping or Islah [Shaykh
  Abdallah bin Husayn al-AHMAR]; National Arab Socialist Baath Party
  [Dr. Qassim SALAAM]; Nasserite Unionist Party [Abdel Malik
  al-MAKHLAFI]; Yemeni Socialist Party or YSP [Ali Salih MUQBIL]

  note:  President SALIH's General People's Congress or GPC won a
  landslide victory in the April 1997 legislative election and no
  longer governs in coalition with Shaykh Abdallah bin Husayn
  al-AHMAR's Islamic Reform Grouping or Islah - the two parties had
  been in coalition since the end of the civil war in 1994; the YSP, a
  loyal opposition party, boycotted the April 1997 legislative
  election, but announced that it would participate in Yemen's first
  local elections to be held in February 2001; these local elections
  aim to decentralize political power and are a key element of the
  government's political reform program

Yugoslavia:
  Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians or SVM [Jozsef KASZA];
  Civic Alliance of Serbia or GSS [Vesna PESIC]; Coalition Sandzak
  [Rasim JAJIC]; Coalition Sumadija [Branislav KOVACEVIC]; Democratic
  Alternative of DA [Nebojsa COVIC]; Democratic Center or DC
  [Dragoljub MICUNOVIC]; Democratic Christian Party of Serbia of DHSS
  [Vladan BATIC]; Democratic League of Kosovo or LDK [Dr. Ibrahim
  RUGOVA, president]; Democratic Opposition of Serbia or DOS [leader
  NA]; Democratic Party or DS [Zoran DJINDJIC]; Democratic Party of
  Serbia or DSS [Vojislav KOSTUNICA]; Democratic Party of Socialists
  of Montenegro or DPS [Milo DJUKANOVIC]; Movement for a Democratic
  Serbia or PDS [Momcilo PERISIC]; New Democracy or ND [Dusan
  MIHAJLOVIC]; New Serbia [Velimir ILIC and Milan St. PROTIC];
  People's Party of Montenegro or NS [Dragan SOC]; Serb People's Party
  or SNS [leader NA]; Serbian Radical Party or SRS [Vojislav SESELJ];
  Serbian Renewal Movement or SPO [Vuk DRASKOVIC, president]; Serbian
  Socialist Party or SPS (former Communist Party) [Slobodan
  MILOSEVIC]; Social Democracy or SD [Vuk OBRADOVIC]; Social
  Democratic Union or SDU [Zarko KORAC]; Socialist People's Party of
  Montenegro or SNP [Momir BULATOVIC]; Yugoslav United Left or JUL
  [Ljubisa RISTIC]

Zambia:
  Agenda for Zambia or AZ [Akashambatwa LEWANIKA]; Labor Party
  or LP [Chibiza MFUNI]; Liberal Progressive Front or LPF [Roger
  CHONGWE, president]; Movement for Democratic Process or MDP [Chama
  CHAKOM BOKA]; Movement for Multiparty Democracy or MMD [Frederick
  CHILUBA]; National Party or NP [Daniel LISULO]; Republican Party or
  RP [Ben MWILA]; Social Democratic Party or SDP [Gwendoline Konie];
  United National Independence Party or UNIP [Tilyenji KAUNDA]; United
  Party for National Development or UPND [Anderson MAZOKA]; Zambia
  Democratic Congress or Zadeco [Eden JERRY, acting head]

Zimbabwe:
  Movement for Democratic Change or MDC [Morgan TSVANGIRAI];
  Popular Democratic Front or PDF [Austin CHAKAODZA]; United Parties
  [Abel MUZOREWA]; Zimbabwe African National Union-Ndonga or
  ZANU-Ndonga [Ndabaningi SITHOLE]; Zimbabwe African National
  Union-Patriotic Front or ZANU-PF [Robert MUGABE]; Zimbabwe Unity
  Movement or ZUM [Edgar TEKERE]

Taiwan:
  Chinese New Party or CNP [HAU Lang-bin]; Democratic
  Progressive Party or DPP [Frank HSIEH, chairman]; Kuomintang or KMT
  (Nationalist Party) [LIEN Chan, chairman]; New Party or NP [LI
  Ching-hwa]; People First Party or PFP [James SOONG, chairman]; other
  minor parties

======================================================================

@Political pressure groups and leaders



Afghanistan:
  Afghan refugees in Pakistan, Australia, US, and
  elsewhere have organized politically; Mellat (Social Democratic
  Party) [leader NA]; Peshawar, Pakistan-based groups such as the
  Coordination Council for National Unity and Understanding in
  Afghanistan or CUNUA [Ishaq GAILANI]; tribal elders represent
  traditional Pashtun leadership; Writers Union of Free Afghanistan or
  WUFA [A. Rasul AMIN]

Albania:
  NA

Algeria:
  NA

American Samoa:
  NA

Andorra:
  NA

Angola:
  Front for the Liberation of the Enclave of Cabinda or FLEC
  [N'zita Henriques TIAGO; Antonio Bento BEMBE]

  note:  FLEC is waging a small-scale, highly factionalized, armed
  struggle for the independence of Cabinda Province

Anguilla:
  NA

Antigua and Barbuda:
  Antigua Trades and Labor Union or ATLU [William
  ROBINSON]; People's Democratic Movement or PDM [Hugh MARSHALL]

Argentina:
  Argentine Association of Pharmaceutical Labs (CILFA);
  Argentine Industrial Union (manufacturers' association); Argentine
  Rural Society (large landowners' association); business
  organizations; General Confederation of Labor or CGT
  (Peronist-leaning umbrella labor organization); Peronist-dominated
  labor movement; Roman Catholic Church; students

Armenia:
  NA

Aruba:
  NA

Australia:
  Australian Democratic Labor Party (anti-Communist Labor
  Party splinter group); Peace and Nuclear Disarmament Action (Nuclear
  Disarmament Party splinter group)

Austria:
  Austrian Trade Union Federation (primarily Socialist) or
  OeGB; Federal Economic Chamber; OeVP-oriented League of Austrian
  Industrialists or VOeI; Roman Catholic Church, including its chief
  lay organization, Catholic Action; three composite leagues of the
  Austrian People's Party or OeVP representing business, labor, and
  farmers

Azerbaijan:
  Sadval, Lezgin movement; self-proclaimed Armenian
  Nagorno-Karabakh Republic; Talysh independence movement

Bahamas, The:
  NA

Bahrain:
  Shi'a activists fomented unrest sporadically 1994-97,
  demanding the return of an elected National Assembly and an end to
  unemployment; several small, clandestine leftist and Islamic
  fundamentalist groups are active

Bangladesh:
  NA

Barbados:
  Barbados Workers Union [Leroy TROTMAN]; Clement Payne
  Labor Union [David COMMISSIONG]; People's Progressive Movement [Eric
  SEALY]; Worker's Party of Barbados [Dr. George BELLE]

Belarus:
  NA

Belgium:
  Christian and Socialist Trade Unions; Federation of Belgian
  Industries; numerous other associations representing bankers,
  manufacturers, middle-class artisans, and the legal and medical
  professions; various organizations represent the cultural interests
  of Flanders and Wallonia; various peace groups such as Pax Christi
  and groups representing immigrants

Belize:
  Society for the Promotion of Education and Research or SPEAR
  [Diane HAYLOCK]; United Worker's Front

Benin:
  NA

Bermuda:
  Bermuda Industrial Union or BIU [Derrick BURGESS]; Bermuda
  Public Services Association or BPSA [Betty CHRISTOPHER]

Bhutan:
  Buddhist clergy; ethnic Nepalese organizations leading
  militant antigovernment campaign; Indian merchant community; United
  Front for Democracy (exiled)

Bolivia:
  Cocalero Groups; indigenous organizations; labor unions

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  NA

Botswana:
  NA

Brazil:
  left wing of the Catholic Church, Landless Worker's
  Movement, and labor unions allied to leftist Worker's Party are
  critical of government's social and economic policies

British Virgin Islands:
  NA

Brunei:
  NA

Bulgaria:
  agrarian movement; Bulgarian Democratic Center;
  Confederation of Independent Trade Unions of Bulgaria or CITUB;
  Democratic Alliance for the Republic or DAR; New Union for Democracy
  or NUD; Podkrepa Labor Confederation; numerous regional, ethnic, and
  national interest groups with various agendas

Burkina Faso:
  Burkinabe General Confederation of Labor or CGTB;
  Burkinabe Movement for Human Rights or HBDHP; Group of 14 February;
  National Confederation of Burkinabe Workers or CNTB; National
  Organization of Free Unions or ONSL; watchdog/political action
  groups throughout the country in both organizations and communities

Burma:
  All Burma Student Democratic Front or ABSDF; Kachin
  Independence Army or KIA; Karen National Union or KNU; National
  Coalition Government of the Union of Burma or NCGUB [Dr. SEIN WIN]
  consists of individuals legitimately elected to the People's
  Assembly but not recognized by the military regime; the group fled
  to a border area and joined with insurgents in December 1990 to form
  a parallel government; several Shan factions; United Wa State Army
  or UWSA

Burundi:
  Loosely organized Tutsi militias, often affiliated with
  Tutsi extremist parties

Cambodia:
  NA

Cameroon:
  Cameroon Anglophone Movement or CAM [Vishe FAI, secretary
  general]; Southern Cameroon National Council [Nfor Ngala NFOR,
  acting]

Canada:
  NA

Cape Verde:
  NA

Cayman Islands:
  NA

Central African Republic:
  NA

Chad:
  NA

Chile:
  revitalized university student federations at all major
  universities; Roman Catholic Church; United Labor Central or CUT
  includes trade unionists from the country's five largest labor
  confederations

China:
  no substantial political opposition groups exist, although
  the government has identified the Falungong sect and the China
  Democracy Party as potential rivals

Christmas Island:
  none

Cocos (Keeling) Islands:
  none

Colombia:
  two largest insurgent groups active in Colombia - National
  Liberation Army or ELN and Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia or
  FARC; largest paramilitary group is United Self-Defense Groups of
  Colombia or AUC

Comoros:
  NA

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  NA

Congo, Republic of the:
  Congolese Trade Union Congress or CSC;
  General Union of Congolese Pupils and Students or UGEEC;
  Revolutionary Union of Congolese Women or URFC; Union of Congolese
  Socialist Youth or UJSC

Cook Islands:
  NA

Costa Rica:
  Authentic Confederation of Democratic Workers or CATD
  (Communist Party affiliate); Chamber of Coffee Growers; Confederated
  Union of Workers or CUT (Communist Party affiliate); Costa Rican
  Confederation of Democratic Workers or CCTD (Liberation Party
  affiliate); Federation of Public Service Workers or FTSP; National
  Association for Economic Development or ANFE; National Association
  of Educators or ANDE; Rerum Novarum or CTRN (PLN affiliate) [Gilbert
  Brown]

Cote d'Ivoire:
  NA

Croatia:
  NA

Cuba:
  NA

Cyprus:
  Confederation of Cypriot Workers or SEK (pro-West);
  Confederation of Revolutionary Labor Unions or Dev-Is; Federation of
  Turkish Cypriot Labor Unions or Turk-Sen; Pan-Cyprian Labor
  Federation or PEO (Communist controlled)

Czech Republic:
  Czech-Moravian Confederation of Trade Unions
  [Richard FALBR]

Denmark:
  NA

Djibouti:
  Front for the Restoration of Unity and Democracy or FRUD
  and affiliates; Movement for Unity and Democracy or MUD

Dominica:
  Dominica Liberation Movement or DLM (a small leftist party)

Dominican Republic:
  Collective of Popular Organizations or COP

Ecuador:
  Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador or
  CONAIE [Antonio VARGAS]; Coordinator of Social Movements or CMS [F.
  Napoleon SANTOS]; Popular Front or FP [Luis VILLACIS]

Egypt:
  despite a constitutional ban against religious-based parties,
  the technically illegal Muslim Brotherhood constitutes MUBARAK's
  potentially most significant political opposition; MUBARAK tolerated
  limited political activity by the Brotherhood for his first two
  terms, but moved more aggressively since then to block its
  influence; civic society groups are sanctioned, but constrained in
  practical terms; trade unions and professional associations are
  officially sanctioned

El Salvador:
  labor organizations - Electrical Industry Union of El
  Salvador or SIES; Federation of the Construction Industry, Similar
  Transport and other activities, or FESINCONTRANS; National
  Confederation of Salvadoran Workers or CNTS; National Union of
  Salvadoran Workers or UNTS; Port Industry Union of El Salvador or
  SIPES; Salvadoran Union of Ex-Petrolleros and Peasant Workers or
  USEPOC; Salvadoran Workers Central or CTS; Workers Union of
  Electrical Corporation or STCEL; business organizations - National
  Association of Small Enterprise or ANEP; Salvadoran Assembly
  Industry Association or ASIC; Salvadoran Industrial Association or
  ASI

Equatorial Guinea:
  NA

Eritrea:
  Eritrean Islamic Jihad or EIJ; Eritrean Liberation Front or
  ELF [ABDULLAH Muhammed]; Eritrean Liberation Front-Revolutionary
  Council or ELF-RC [Ahmed NASSER]; Eritrean Liberation Front-United
  Organization or ELF-UO [Mohammed Said NAWD]

Estonia:
  NA

Ethiopia:
  Southern Ethiopia People's Democratic Coalition; numerous
  small, ethnically based groups have formed since the defeat of the
  former MENGISTU regime in 1991, including several Islamic militant
  groups

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas):
  none

Faroe Islands:
  NA

Fiji:
  NA

Finland:
  Communist Workers Party [Timo LAHDENMAKI]; Constitutional
  Rightist Party; Finnish Communist Party-Unity [Yrjo HAKANEN];
  Finnish Pensioners Party

France:
  Communist-controlled labor union (Confederation Generale du
  Travail) or CGT, nearly 2.4 million members (claimed); independent
  labor union or Force Ouvriere, 1 million members (est.); independent
  white-collar union or Confederation Generale des Cadres, 340,000
  members (claimed); National Council of French Employers (Conseil
  National du Patronat Francais) or CNPF or Patronat;
  Socialist-leaning labor union (Confederation Francaise Democratique
  du Travail) or CFDT, about 800,000 members (est.)

French Guiana:
  NA

French Polynesia:
  NA

Gabon:
  NA

Gambia, The:
  NA

Georgia:
  Georgian refugees from Abkhazia (Abkhaz faction in Georgian
  Parliament); separatist elements in the breakaway region of
  Abkhazia; supporters of the late ousted President Zviad GAMSAKHURDYA
  remain a source of opposition

Germany:
  employers' organizations; expellee, refugee, trade unions,
  and veterans groups

Ghana:
  NA

Gibraltar:
  Chamber of Commerce; Gibraltar Representatives
  Organization; Housewives Association

Greece:
  NA

Greenland:
  NA

Grenada:
  NA

Guadeloupe:
  Christian Movement for the Liberation of Guadeloupe or
  KLPG; General Federation of Guadeloupe Workers or CGT-G; General
  Union of Guadeloupe Workers or UGTG; Movement for Independent
  Guadeloupe or MPGI

Guam:
  NA

Guatemala:
  Agrarian Owners Group or UNAGRO; Alliance Against
  Impunity or AAI; Committee for Campesino Unity or CUC; Coordinating
  Committee of Agricultural, Commercial, Industrial, and Financial
  Associations or CACIF; Mutual Support Group or GAM

Guernsey:
  none

Guinea:
  NA

Guinea-Bissau:
  NA

Guyana:
  Civil Liberties Action Committee or CLAC; Guyana Council of
  Indian Organizations or GCIO; Rise, Organize and Rebuild or ROAR
  [Ravi DEV]; Trades Union Congress or TUC

  note:  the GCIO and the CLAC are small and active but not well
  organized

Haiti:
  Autonomous Haitian Workers or CATH; Confederation of Haitian
  Workers or CTH; Federation of Workers Trade Unions or FOS; National
  Popular Assembly or APN; Papaye Peasants Movement or MPP; Popular
  Organizations Gathering Power or PROP; Roman Catholic Church

Holy See (Vatican City):
  none (exclusive of influence exercised by
  church officers)

Honduras:
  Committee for the Defense of Human Rights in Honduras or
  CODEH; Confederation of Honduran Workers or CTH; Coordinating
  Committee of Popular Organizations or CCOP; General Workers
  Confederation or CGT; Honduran Council of Private Enterprise or
  COHEP; National Association of Honduran Campesinos or ANACH;
  National Union of Campesinos or UNC; Popular Bloc or BP; United
  Federation of Honduran Workers or FUTH

Hong Kong:
  Chinese General Chamber of Commerce (pro-China); Chinese
  Manufacturers' Association of Hong Kong; Confederation of Trade
  Unions (pro-democracy) [LAU Chin-shek, president; LEE Cheuk-yan,
  general secretary]; Federation of Hong Kong Industries; Federation
  of Trade Unions (pro-China) [LEE Chark-tim, president]; Hong Kong
  Alliance in Support of the Patriotic Democratic Movement in China
  [Szeto WAH, chairman]; Hong Kong and Kowloon Trade Union Council
  (pro-Taiwan); Hong Kong General Chamber of Commerce; Hong Kong
  Professional Teachers' Union [CHEUNG Man-kwong, president]; Liberal
  Democratic Federation [HU Fa-kuang, chairman]

Hungary:
  NA

Iceland:
  NA

India:
  numerous religious or militant/chauvinistic organizations,
  including Vishwa Hindu Parishad, Bajrang Dal, and Rashtriya
  Swayamsevak Sangh; various separatist groups seeking greater
  communal and/or regional autonomy, including the All Parties
  Hurriyat Conference

Indonesia:
  NA

Iran:
  active student groups include the pro-reform "Organization for
  Strengthening Unity" and "the Union of Islamic Student Societies';
  groups that generally support the Islamic Republic include Ansar-e
  Hizballah, Mojahedin of the Islamic Revolution, Muslim Students
  Following the Line of the Imam, and the Islamic Coalition
  Association; opposition groups include the Liberation Movement of
  Iran and the Nation of Iran party; armed political groups that have
  been almost completely repressed by the government include
  Mojahedin-e Khalq Organization (MEK), People's Fedayeen, Democratic
  Party of Iranian Kurdistan; the Society for the Defense of Freedom

Iraq:
  any formal political activity must be sanctioned by the
  government; opposition to regime from Kurdish groups and southern
  Shi'a dissidents

Ireland:
  NA

Israel:
  Gush Emunim, Israeli nationalists advocating Jewish
  settlement on the West Bank and Gaza Strip; Peace Now supports
  territorial concessions in the West Bank and is critical of
  government's Lebanon policy

Italy:
  Italian manufacturers and merchants associations
  (Confindustria, Confcommercio); organized farm groups
  (Confcoltivatori, Confagricoltura); Roman Catholic Church; three
  major trade union confederations (Confederazione Generale Italiana
  del Lavoro or CGIL [Sergio COFFERATI] which is left wing,
  Confederazione Italiana dei Sindacati Lavoratori or CISL [Sergio
  D'ANTONI] which is Catholic centrist, and Unione Italiana del Lavoro
  or UIL [Pietro LARIZZA] which is lay centrist)

Jamaica:
  New Beginnings Movement or NBM; Rastafarians (black
  religious/racial cultists, pan-Africanists)

Japan:
  NA

Jersey:
  none

Jordan:
  Council of Professional Association Presidents [Ahmad
  al-QADIRI, chairman]; Jordanian Press Association [Sayf al-SHARIF,
  president]; Muslim Brotherhood [Abd-al-Majid DHUNAYBAT, secretary
  general]

Kazakhstan:
  Kazakhstan International Bureau on Human Rights
  [Yevgeniy ZHOVTIS, executive director]

Kenya:
  human rights groups; labor unions; Muslim organizations;
  National Convention Executive Council or NCEC, a proreform coalition
  of political parties and nongovernment organizations [Kivutha
  KIBWANA]; Protestant National Council of Churches of Kenya or NCCK
  [Mutava MUSYIMI]; Roman Catholic and other Christian churches;
  Supreme Council of Kenya Muslims or SUPKEM [Shaykh Abdul Gafur
  al-BUSAIDY, chairman]

Kiribati:
  NA

Korea, North:
  NA

Korea, South:
  Federation of Korean Industries; Federation of Korean
  Trade Unions; Korean Confederation of Trade Unions; Korean National
  Council of Churches; Korean Traders Association; Korean Veterans'
  Association; National Council of Labor Unions; National Democratic
  Alliance of Korea; National Federation of Farmers' Associations;
  National Federation of Student Associations

Kuwait:
  several political groups act as de facto parties: Bedouins,
  merchants, Sunni and Shi'a activists, and secular leftists and
  nationalists

Kyrgyzstan:
  Council of Free Trade Unions; Kyrgyz Committee on Human
  Rights [Ramazan DYRYIDAYEV]; National Unity Democratic Movement;
  Union of Entrepreneurs

Laos:
  noncommunist political groups proscribed; most opposition
  leaders fled the country in 1975

Latvia:
  NA

Lebanon:
  NA

Lesotho:
  NA

Liberia:
  NA

Libya:
  various Arab nationalist movements with almost negligible
  memberships may be functioning clandestinely, as well as some
  Islamic elements

Liechtenstein:
  NA

Lithuania:
  NA

Luxembourg:
  ABBL (bankers' association); ALEBA (financial sector
  trade union); Centrale Paysanne (federation of agricultural
  producers); CEP (professional sector chamber); CGFP (trade union
  representing civil service); Chambre de Commerce (Chamber of
  Commerce); Chambre des Metiers (Chamber of Artisans); FEDIL
  (federation of industrialists); LCGP (center-right trade union);
  OGBL (center-left trade union)

Macau:
  Catholic Church [Domingos LAM, bishop]; Macau Society of
  Tourism and Entertainment or STDM [Stanley HO, managing director];
  Union for Democracy Development [Antonio NG Kuok-cheong, leader]

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  NA

Madagascar:
  Federalist Movement; National Council of Christian
  Churches or FFKM

Malawi:
  NA

Malaysia:
  NA

Maldives:
  none

Mali:
  Patriotic Movement of the Ghanda Koye or MPGK; United Movement
  and Fronts of Azawad or MFUA

Malta:
  NA

Man, Isle of:
  none

Marshall Islands:
  NA

Martinique:
  Association for the Protection of Martinique's Heritage
  (ecologist) [Garcin MALSA]; Caribbean Revolutionary Alliance or ARC;
  Central Union for Martinique Workers or CSTM [Marc PULVAR]; Frantz
  Fanon Circle; League of Workers and Peasants; Proletarian Action
  Group or GAP; Socialist Revolution Group or GRS [Philippe
  PIERRE-CHARLES]

Mauritania:
  Arab nationalists; Ba'athists; General Confederation of
  Mauritanian Workers or CGTM [Abdallahi Ould MOHAMED, secretary
  general]; Independent Confederation of Mauritanian Workers or CLTM
  [Samory Ould BEYE]; Islamists; Mauritanian Workers Union or UTM
  [Mohamed Ely Ould BRAHIM, secretary general]

Mauritius:
  various labor unions

Mayotte:
  NA

Mexico:
  Confederation of Employers of the Mexican Republic or
  COPARMEX; Confederation of Industrial Chambers or CONCAMIN;
  Confederation of Mexican Workers or CTM; Confederation of National
  Chambers of Commerce or CONCANACO; Coordinator for Foreign Trade
  Business Organizations or COECE; Federation of Unions Providing
  Goods and Services or FESEBES; National Chamber of Transformation
  Industries or CANACINTRA; National Peasant Confederation or CNC;
  National Union of Workers or UNT; Regional Confederation of Mexican
  Workers or CROM; Revolutionary Confederation of Workers and Peasants
  or CROC; Roman Catholic Church

Moldova:
  NA

Monaco:
  NA

Mongolia:
  NA

Montserrat:
  NA

Morocco:
  Association of Popular Trade Unions or ADP [leader NA];
  Democratic Confederation of Labor or CDT [Noubir AMAOUI]; Democratic
  National Trade Union or USND [leader NA]; Democratic Trade Union or
  SD [leader NA]; General Union of Moroccan Workers or UGTM
  [Abderrazzak AFILAL]; Labor Union Commissions or CS [leader NA];
  Moroccan National Workers Union or UNMT [leader NA]; Moroccan Union
  of Workers or UTM [Mahjoub BENSEDIQ]; Party of Shura and Istiqla
  [Abdelwaheb MAASH]

Mozambique:
  NA

Namibia:
  NA

Nauru:
  NA

Nepal:
  Maoist guerrilla-based insurgency; numerous small,
  left-leaning student groups in the capital; several small, radical
  Nepalese antimonarchist groups

Netherlands:
  Federation of Netherlands Trade Union Movement
  (comprising Socialist and Catholic trade unions) and a Protestant
  trade union; Federation of Catholic and Protestant Employers
  Associations; Interchurch Peace Council or IKV; large multinational
  firms; the nondenominational Federation of Netherlands Enterprises

Netherlands Antilles:
  NA

New Caledonia:
  NA

New Zealand:
  NA

Nicaragua:
  National Workers Front or FNT is a Sandinista umbrella
  group of eight labor unions including - Farm Workers Association or
  ATC, Health Workers Federation or FETASALUD, Heroes and Martyrs
  Confederation of Professional Associations or CONAPRO, National
  Association of Educators of Nicaragua or ANDEN, National Union of
  Employees or UNE, National Union of Farmers and Ranchers or UNAG,
  Sandinista Workers Central or CST, and Union of Journalists of
  Nicaragua or UPN; Permanent Congress of Workers or CPT is an
  umbrella group of four non-Sandinista labor unions including -
  Autonomous Nicaraguan Workers Central or CTN-A, Confederation of
  Labor Unification or CUS, Independent General Confederation of Labor
  or CGT-I, and Labor Action and Unity Central or CAUS; Nicaraguan
  Workers' Central or CTN is an independent labor union; Superior
  Council of Private Enterprise or COSEP is a confederation of
  business groups

Niger:
  NA

Nigeria:
  NA

Niue:
  NA

Norfolk Island:
  none

Northern Mariana Islands:
  NA

Norway:
  NA

Oman:
  none

Pakistan:
  military remains important political force; ulema
  (clergy), landowners, industrialists, and small merchants also
  influential

Palau:
  NA

Panama:
  Chamber of Commerce; National Civic Crusade; National
  Council of Organized Workers or CONATO; National Union of
  Construction and Similar Workers (SUNTRACS); National Council of
  Private Enterprise or CONEP; Panamanian Association of Business
  Executives or APEDE; Panamanian Industrialists Society or SIP;
  Workers Confederation of the Republic of Panama or CTRP

Papua New Guinea:
  NA

Paraguay:
  Ahorristas Estafados or AE; National Workers Central or
  CNT; Paraguayan Workers Confederation or CPT; Roman Catholic Church;
  Unitary Workers Central or CUT

Peru:
  leftist guerrilla groups include Shining Path [Abimael GUZMAN
  Reynoso (imprisoned), Gabriel MACARIO (top leader at-large)]; Tupac
  Amaru Revolutionary Movement or MRTA [Victor POLAY (imprisoned),
  Hugo AVALLENEDA Valdez (top leader at-large)]

Philippines:
  NA

Pitcairn Islands:
  none

Poland:
  All Poland Trade Union Alliance or OPZZ (trade union); Roman
  Catholic Church; Solidarity (trade union)

Portugal:
  NA

Puerto Rico:
  Armed Forces for National Liberation or FALN; Armed
  Forces of Popular Resistance; Boricua Popular Army (also known as
  the Macheteros); Volunteers of the Puerto Rican Revolution

Qatar:
  none

Reunion:
  NA

Romania:
  various human rights and professional associations

Russia:
  NA

Rwanda:
  IBUKA - association of genocide survivors

Saint Helena:
  none

Saint Kitts and Nevis:
  NA

Saint Lucia:
  NA

Saint Pierre and Miquelon:
  NA

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:
  NA

Samoa:
  NA

San Marino:
  NA

Sao Tome and Principe:
  NA

Saudi Arabia:
  none

Senegal:
  labor; Muslim brotherhoods; students; teachers

Seychelles:
  Roman Catholic Church; trade unions

Sierra Leone:
  Trade Unions and Student Unions

Singapore:
  NA

Slovakia:
  Association of Employers of Slovakia; Association of Towns
  and Villages or ZMOS; Confederation of Trade Unions or KOZ; Metal
  Workers Unions or KOVO and METALURG

Slovenia:
  NA

Solomon Islands:
  NA

Somalia:
  numerous clan and subclan factions are currently vying for
  power

South Africa:
  Congress of South African Trade Unions or COSATU
  [Zwelinzima VAVI, general secretary]; South African Communist Party
  or SACP [Blade NZIMANDE, general secretary]; South African National
  Civics Organization or SANCO [Mlungisi HLONGWANE, national
  president]; note - COSATU and SACP are in a formal alliance with the
  ANC

Spain:
  business and landowning interests; Catholic Church; Euskal
  Herritarok or EH [Herri BATASUNA]; free labor unions (authorized in
  April 1977); on the extreme left, the Basque Fatherland and Liberty
  or ETA and the First of October Antifascist Resistance Group or
  GRAPO use terrorism to oppose the government; Opus Dei; Socialist
  General Union of Workers or UGT and the smaller independent Workers
  Syndical Union or USO; university students; Workers Confederation or
  CC.OO

Sri Lanka:
  Buddhist clergy; labor unions; Liberation Tigers of Tamil
  Eelam or LTTE (insurgent group fighting for a separate state);
  radical chauvinist Sinhalese groups such as the National Movement
  Against Terrorism; Sinhalese Buddhist lay groups

Sudan:
  National Congress Party [Ibrahim Ahmed UMAR] (front for the
  National Islamic Front or NIF); Popular National Congress [Hassan
  al-TURABI]; Umma [Sadiq al-MAHDI]; Democratic Unionist Party
  [Muhammed Uthman AL-MIRGHANI]; National Democratic Alliance
  [Muhammed Uthman AL-MIRGHANI, chairman]; Sudan People's Liberation
  Army [Dr. John GARANG]

Suriname:
  General Liberation and Development Party or ABOP [Ronnie
  BRUNSWIJK]; Mandela Bushnegro Liberation Movement [Leendert ADAMS];
  Tucayana Amazonica [Alex JUBITANA, Thomas SABAJO]; Union for
  Liberation and Democracy [Kofi AFONGPONG]

Swaziland:
  NA

Sweden:
  NA

Switzerland:
  NA

Syria:
  conservative religious leaders; Muslim Brotherhood (operates
  in exile in Jordan and Yemen); non-Ba'th parties have little
  effective political influence

Tajikistan:
  NA

Tanzania:
  NA

Thailand:
  NA

Togo:
  NA

Tokelau:
  none

Tonga:
  Pro-Democracy and Human Rights Movement [leader NA]

Trinidad and Tobago:
  Jamaat Al Musilmeen [Abu BAKR]

Tunisia:
  the Islamic fundamentalist party, Al Nahda (Renaissance),
  is outlawed

Turkey:
  Confederation of Revolutionary Workers Unions or DISK
  [Ridvan BUDAK]; Independent Industrialists and Businessmen's
  Association or MUSIAD [Erol YARAR]; Moral Rights Workers Union or
  Hak-Is [Salim USLU]; Turkish Industrialists' and Businessmen's
  Association or TUSIAD [Muharrem KAYHAN]; Turkish Confederation of
  Employers' Unions or TISK [Refik BAYDUR]; Turkish Confederation of
  Labor or Turk-Is [Bayram MERAL]; Turkish Union of Chambers of
  Commerce and Commodity Exchanges or TOBB [Fuat MIRAS]

Turkmenistan:
  NA

Turks and Caicos Islands:
  NA

Tuvalu:
  none

Uganda:
  NA

Ukraine:
  NA

United Arab Emirates:
  NA

United Kingdom:
  Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament; Confederation of
  British Industry; National Farmers' Union; Trades Union Congress

United States:
  NA

Uruguay:
  NA

Uzbekistan:
  Birlik (Unity) Movement [Abdurakhim PULAT, chairman];
  Erk (Freedom) Democratic Party [Muhammad SOLIH, chairman] was banned
  9 December 1992; Human Rights Society of Uzbekistan [Abdumanob
  PULAT, chairman]; Independent Human Rights Society of Uzbekistan
  [Mikhail ARDZINOV, chairman]

Vanuatu:
  NA

Venezuela:
  FEDECAMARAS, a conservative business group; VECINOS
  groups; Venezuelan Confederation of Workers or CTV (labor
  organization dominated by the Democratic Action)

Vietnam:
  none

Virgin Islands:
  NA

Wallis and Futuna:
  NA

Western Sahara:
  none

Yemen:
  NA

Yugoslavia:
  Alliance for the Future of Kosovo or AAK [leader
  RAMUSH]; Group of 17 Independent Economists or G-17 [leader NA];
  National Movement for the Liberation of Kosovo or LKCK [Sabit
  GASHI]; Otpor Student Resistance Movement [leader NA]; Political
  Council for Presevo, Meveda and Bujanovac or PCPMB [leader NA]; The
  People's Movement for Kosovo or LPK [leader NA]

Zambia:
  NA

Zimbabwe:
  National Constitutional Assembly or NCA

Taiwan:
  Taiwan independence movement, various business and
  environmental groups

  note:  debate on Taiwan independence has become acceptable within
  the mainstream of domestic politics on Taiwan; political
  liberalization and the increased representation of opposition
  parties in Taiwan's legislature have opened public debate on the
  island's national identity; a broad popular consensus has developed
  that Taiwan currently enjoys de facto independence and - whatever
  the ultimate outcome regarding reunification or independence - that
  Taiwan's people must have the deciding voice; advocates of Taiwan
  independence oppose the stand that the island will eventually
  reunify with mainland China; goals of the Taiwan independence
  movement include establishing a sovereign nation on Taiwan and
  entering the UN; other organizations supporting Taiwan independence
  include the World United Formosans for Independence and the
  Organization for Taiwan Nation Building

======================================================================

@Population



Afghanistan:
  26,813,057 (July 2001 est.)

Albania:
  3,510,484 (July 2001 est.)

Algeria:
  31,736,053 (July 2001 est.)

American Samoa:
  67,084 (July 2001 est.)

Andorra:
  67,627 (July 2001 est.)

Angola:
  10,366,031 (July 2001 est.)

Anguilla:
  12,132 (July 2001 est.)

Antarctica:
  no indigenous inhabitants, but there are seasonally
  staffed research stations

  note:  approximately 29 nations, all signatory to the Antarctic
  Treaty, send personnel to perform seasonal (summer) and year-round
  research on the continent and in its surrounding oceans; the
  population of persons doing and supporting science on the continent
  and its nearby islands south of 60 degrees south latitude (the
  region covered by the Antarctic Treaty) varies from approximately
  4,000 in summer to 1,000 in winter; in addition, approximately 1,000
  personnel including ship's crew and scientists doing onboard
  research are present in the waters of the treaty region; Summer
  (January) population - 3,687 total; Argentina 302, Australia 201,
  Belgium 13, Brazil 80, Bulgaria 16, Chile 352, China 70, Finland 11,
  France 100, Germany 51, India 60, Italy 106, Japan 136, South Korea
  14, Netherlands 10, NZ 60, Norway 40, Peru 28, Poland 70, Russia
  254, South Africa 80, Spain 43, Sweden 20, UK 192, US 1,378
  (1998-99); Winter (July) population - 964 total; Argentina 165,
  Australia 75, Brazil 12, Chile 129, China 33, France 33, Germany 9,
  India 25, Japan 40, South Korea 14, NZ 10, Poland 20, Russia 102,
  South Africa 10, UK 39, US 248 (1998-99); year-round stations - 42
  total; Argentina 6, Australia 4, Brazil 1, Chile 4, China 2, Finland
  1, France 1, Germany 1, India 1, Italy 1, Japan 1, South Korea 1, NZ
  1, Norway 1, Poland 1, Russia 6, South Africa 1, Spain 1, Ukraine 1,
  UK 2, US 3, Uruguay 1 (1998-99); Summer-only stations - 32 total;
  Argentina 3, Australia 4, Bulgaria 1, Chile 7, Germany 1, India 1,
  Japan 3, NZ 1, Peru 1, Russia 3, Sweden 2, UK 5 (1998-99); in
  addition, during the austral summer some nations have numerous
  occupied locations such as tent camps, summer-long temporary
  facilities, and mobile traverses in support of research (July 2001
  est.)

Antigua and Barbuda:
  66,970 (July 2001 est.)

Argentina:
  37,384,816 (July 2001 est.)

Armenia:
  3,336,100 (July 2001 est.)

Aruba:
  70,007 (July 2001 est.)

Ashmore and Cartier Islands:
  no indigenous inhabitants

  note:  there are only seasonal caretakers (July 2001 est.)

Australia:
  19,357,594 (July 2001 est.)

Austria:
  8,150,835 (July 2001 est.)

Azerbaijan:
  7,771,092 (July 2001 est.)

Bahamas, The:
  297,852

  note:  estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
  effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
  life expectancy, higher infant mortality and death rates, lower
  population and growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
  population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
  2001 est.)

Bahrain:
  645,361

  note:  includes 228,424 non-nationals (July 2001 est.)

Baker Island:
  uninhabited

  note:  American civilians evacuated in 1942 after Japanese air and
  naval attacks during World War II; occupied by US military during
  World War II, but abandoned after the war; public entry is by
  special-use permit from US Fish and Wildlife Service only and
  generally restricted to scientists and educators; a cemetery and
  remnants of structures from early settlement are located near the
  middle of the west coast; visited annually by US Fish and Wildlife
  Service (July 2001 est.)

Bangladesh:
  131,269,860 (July 2001 est.)

Barbados:
  275,330 (July 2001 est.)

Bassas da India:
  uninhabited (July 2001 est.)

Belarus:
  10,350,194 (July 2001 est.)

Belgium:
  10,258,762 (July 2001 est.)

Belize:
  256,062 (July 2001 est.)

Benin:
  6,590,782

  note:  estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
  effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
  life expectancy, higher infant mortality and death rates, lower
  population and growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
  population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
  2001 est.)

Bermuda:
  63,503 (July 2001 est.)

Bhutan:
  2,049,412 (July 2001 est.)

  note:  other estimates range as low as 800,000

Bolivia:
  8,300,463 (July 2001 est.)

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  3,922,205

  note:  all data dealing with population are subject to considerable
  error because of the dislocations caused by military action and
  ethnic cleansing (July 2001 est.)

Botswana:
  1,586,119

  note:  estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
  effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
  life expectancy, higher infant mortality and death rates, lower
  population and growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
  population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
  2001 est.)

Bouvet Island:
  uninhabited (July 2001 est.)

Brazil:
  174,468,575

  note:  Brazil took an intercensal count in August 1996 which
  reported a population of 157,079,573; that figure was about 5% lower
  than projections by the US Census Bureau, which is close to the
  implied underenumeration of 4.6% for the 1991 census; estimates for
  this country explicitly take into account the effects of excess
  mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower life expectancy,
  higher infant mortality and death rates, lower population and growth
  rates, and changes in the distribution of population by age and sex
  than would otherwise be expected (July 2001 est.)

British Indian Ocean Territory:
  no indigenous inhabitants

  note:  approximately 1,200 former agricultural workers resident in
  the Chagos Archipelago, often referred to as Chagossians or Ilois,
  were relocated to Mauritius and the Seychelles around the time of
  the construction of UK-US military facilities; in 1995, there were
  approximately 1,700 UK and US military personnel and 1,500 civilian
  contractors living on the island of Diego Garcia

British Virgin Islands:
  20,812 (July 2001 est.)

Brunei:
  343,653 (July 2001 est.)

Bulgaria:
  7,707,495 (July 2001 est.)

Burkina Faso:
  12,272,289

  note:  estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
  effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
  life expectancy, higher infant mortality and death rates, lower
  population and growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
  population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
  2001 est.)

Burma:
  41,994,678

  note:  estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
  effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
  life expectancy, higher infant mortality and death rates, lower
  population and growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
  population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
  2001 est.)

Burundi:
  6,223,897

  note:  estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
  effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
  life expectancy, higher infant mortality and death rates, lower
  population and growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
  population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
  2001 est.)

Cambodia:
  12,491,501

  note:  estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
  effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
  life expectancy, higher infant mortality and death rates, lower
  population and growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
  population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
  2001 est.)

Cameroon:
  15,803,220

  note:  estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
  effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
  life expectancy, higher infant mortality and death rates, lower
  population and growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
  population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
  2001 est.)

Canada:
  31,592,805 (July 2001 est.)

Cape Verde:
  405,163 (July 2001 est.)

Cayman Islands:
  35,527 (July 2001 est.)

Central African Republic:
  3,576,884

  note:  estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
  effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
  life expectancy, higher infant mortality and death rates, lower
  population and growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
  population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
  2001 est.)

Chad:
  8,707,078 (July 2001 est.)

Chile:
  15,328,467 (July 2001 est.)

China:
  1,273,111,290 (July 2001 est.)

Christmas Island:
  2,771 (July 2001 est.)

Clipperton Island:
  uninhabited (July 2001 est.)

Cocos (Keeling) Islands:
  633 (July 2001 est.)

Colombia:
  40,349,388 (July 2001 est.)

Comoros:
  596,202 (July 2001 est.)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  53,624,718

  note:  estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
  effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
  life expectancy, higher infant mortality and death rates, lower
  population and growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
  population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
  2001 est.)

Congo, Republic of the:
  2,894,336

  note:  estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
  effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
  life expectancy, higher infant mortality and death rates, lower
  population and growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
  population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
  2001 est.)

Cook Islands:
  20,611 (July 2001 est.)

Coral Sea Islands:
  no indigenous inhabitants

  note:  there is a staff of three to four at the meteorological
  station (July 2001 est.)

Costa Rica:
  3,773,057 (July 2001 est.)

Cote d'Ivoire:
  16,393,221

  note:  estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
  effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
  life expectancy, higher infant mortality and death rates, lower
  population and growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
  population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
  2001 est.)

Croatia:
  4,334,142 (July 2001 est.)

Cuba:
  11,184,023 (July 2001 est.)

Cyprus:
  762,887 (July 2001 est.)

Czech Republic:
  10,264,212 (July 2001 est.)

Denmark:
  5,352,815 (July 2001 est.)

Djibouti:
  460,700 (July 2001 est.)

Dominica:
  70,786 (July 2001 est.)

Dominican Republic:
  8,581,477 (July 2001 est.)

Ecuador:
  13,183,978 (July 2001 est.)

Egypt:
  69,536,644 (July 2001 est.)

El Salvador:
  6,237,662 (July 2001 est.)

Equatorial Guinea:
  486,060 (July 2001 est.)

Eritrea:
  4,298,269 (July 2001 est.)

Estonia:
  1,423,316 (July 2001 est.)

Ethiopia:
  65,891,874

  note:  estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
  effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
  life expectancy, higher infant mortality and death rates, lower
  population and growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
  population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
  2001 est.)

Europa Island:
  no indigenous inhabitants

  note:  there is a small French military garrison (July 2001 est.)

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas):
  2,895 (July 2001 est.)

Faroe Islands:
  45,661 (July 2001 est.)

Fiji:
  844,330 (July 2001 est.)

Finland:
  5,175,783 (July 2001 est.)

France:
  59,551,227 (July 2001 est.)

French Guiana:
  177,562 (July 2001 est.)

French Polynesia:
  253,506 (July 2001 est.)

French Southern and Antarctic Lands:
  no indigenous inhabitants (July
  2001 est.)

  note:  in 1997, there were about 100 researchers whose numbers vary
  from winter (July) to summer (January)

Gabon:
  1,221,175

  note:  estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
  effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
  life expectancy, higher infant mortality and death rates, lower
  population and growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
  population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
  2001 est.)

Gambia, The:
  1,411,205 (July 2001 est.)

Gaza Strip:
  1,178,119 (July 2001 est.)

  note:  in addition, there are some 6,900 Israeli settlers in the
  Gaza Strip (August 2000 est.)

Georgia:
  4,989,285 (July 2001 est.)

Germany:
  83,029,536 (July 2001 est.)

Ghana:
  19,894,014

  note:  estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
  effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
  life expectancy, higher infant mortality and death rates, lower
  population and growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
  population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
  2001 est.)

Gibraltar:
  27,649 (July 2001 est.)

Glorioso Islands:
  no indigenous inhabitants

  note:  there is a small French military garrison (July 2001 est.)

Greece:
  10,623,835 (July 2001 est.)

Greenland:
  56,352 (July 2001 est.)

Grenada:
  89,227 (July 2001 est.)

Guadeloupe:
  431,170 (July 2001 est.)

Guam:
  157,557 (July 2001 est.)

Guatemala:
  12,974,361 (July 2001 est.)

Guernsey:
  64,342 (July 2001 est.)

Guinea:
  7,613,870 (July 2001 est.)

Guinea-Bissau:
  1,315,822 (July 2001 est.)

Guyana:
  697,181

  note:  estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
  effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
  life expectancy, higher infant mortality and death rates, lower
  population and growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
  population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
  2001 est.)

Haiti:
  6,964,549

  note:  estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
  effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
  life expectancy, higher infant mortality and death rates, lower
  population and growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
  population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
  2001 est.)

Heard Island and McDonald Islands:
  uninhabited (July 2001 est.)

Holy See (Vatican City):
  890 (July 2001 est.)

Honduras:
  6,406,052

  note:  estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
  effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
  life expectancy, higher infant mortality and death rates, lower
  population and growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
  population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
  2001 est.)

Hong Kong:
  7,210,505 (July 2001 est.)

Howland Island:
  uninhabited

  note:  American civilians evacuated in 1942 after Japanese air and
  naval attacks during World War II; occupied by US military during
  World War II, but abandoned after the war; public entry is by
  special-use permit from US Fish and Wildlife Service only and
  generally restricted to scientists and educators; visited annually
  by US Fish and Wildlife Service (July 2001 est.)

Hungary:
  10,106,017 (July 2001 est.)

Iceland:
  277,906 (July 2001 est.)

India:
  1,029,991,145 (July 2001 est.)

Indonesia:
  228,437,870 (July 2001 est.)

Iran:
  66,128,965 (July 2001 est.)

Iraq:
  23,331,985 (July 2001 est.)

Ireland:
  3,840,838 (July 2001 est.)

Israel:
  5,938,093 (July 2001 est.)

  note:  includes about 176,000 Israeli settlers in the West Bank,
  about 20,000 in the Israeli-occupied Golan Heights, about 6,900 in
  the Gaza Strip, and about 173,000 in East Jerusalem (August 2000
  est.)

Italy:
  57,679,825 (July 2001 est.)

Jamaica:
  2,665,636 (July 2001 est.)

Jan Mayen:
  no indigenous inhabitants

  note:  there are personnel who operate the Long Range Navigation
  (Loran-C) base and the weather and coastal services radio station
  (July 2001 est.)

Japan:
  126,771,662 (July 2001 est.)

Jarvis Island:
  uninhabited

  note:  Millersville settlement on western side of island
  occasionally used as a weather station from 1935 until World War II,
  when it was abandoned; reoccupied in 1957 during the International
  Geophysical Year by scientists who left in 1958; public entry is by
  special-use permit from US Fish and Wildlife Service only and
  generally restricted to scientists and educators; visited annually
  by US Fish and Wildlife Service (July 2001 est.)

Jersey:
  89,361 (July 2001 est.)

Johnston Atoll:
  no indigenous inhabitants

  note:  in previous years, there was an average of 1,100 US military
  and civilian contractor personnel present; as of 1 October 2000,
  population decreased to approximately 970 when US Army Chemical
  Activity Pacific (USACAP) departed (January 2001 est.)

Jordan:
  5,153,378 (July 2001 est.)

Juan de Nova Island:
  no indigenous inhabitants

  note:  there is a small French military garrison (July 2001 est.)

Kazakhstan:
  16,731,303 (July 2001 est.)

Kenya:
  30,765,916

  note:  estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
  effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
  life expectancy, higher infant mortality and death rates, lower
  population and growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
  population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
  2001 est.)

Kingman Reef:
  uninhabited (July 2001 est.)

Kiribati:
  94,149 (July 2001 est.)

Korea, North:
  21,968,228 (July 2001 est.)

Korea, South:
  47,904,370 (July 2001 est.)

Kuwait:
  2,041,961

  note:  includes 1,159,913 non-nationals (July 2001 est.)

Kyrgyzstan:
  4,753,003 (July 2001 est.)

Laos:
  5,635,967 (July 2001 est.)

Latvia:
  2,385,231 (July 2001 est.)

Lebanon:
  3,627,774 (July 2001 est.)

Lesotho:
  2,177,062

  note:  estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
  effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
  life expectancy, higher infant mortality and death rates, lower
  population and growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
  population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
  2001 est.)

Liberia:
  3,225,837 (July 2001 est.)

Libya:
  5,240,599

  note:  includes 662,669 non-nationals, of which an estimated 500,000
  or more are Africans living in Libya (July 2001 est.)

Liechtenstein:
  32,528 (July 2001 est.)

Lithuania:
  3,610,535 (July 2001 est.)

Luxembourg:
  442,972 (July 2001 est.)

Macau:
  453,733 (July 2001 est.)

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  2,046,209 (July 2001
  est.)

Madagascar:
  15,982,563 (July 2001 est.)

Malawi:
  10,548,250

  note:  estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
  effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
  life expectancy, higher infant mortality and death rates, lower
  population and growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
  population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
  2001 est.)

Malaysia:
  22,229,040 (July 2001 est.)

Maldives:
  310,764 (July 2001 est.)

Mali:
  11,008,518 (July 2001 est.)

Malta:
  394,583 (July 2001 est.)

Man, Isle of:
  73,489 (July 2001 est.)

Marshall Islands:
  70,822 (July 2001 est.)

Martinique:
  418,454 (July 2001 est.)

Mauritania:
  2,747,312 (July 2001 est.)

Mauritius:
  1,189,825 (July 2001 est.)

Mayotte:
  163,366 (July 2001 est.)

Mexico:
  101,879,171 (July 2001 est.)

Micronesia, Federated States of:
  134,597 (July 2001 est.)

Midway Islands:
  no indigenous inhabitants; approximately 150 people
  make up the staff of US Fish and Wildlife Service and their services
  cooperator living at the atoll (July 2001 est.)

Moldova:
  4,431,570 (July 2001 est.)

Monaco:
  31,842 (July 2001 est.)

Mongolia:
  2,654,999 (July 2001 est.)

Montserrat:
  7,574

  note:  an estimated 8,000 refugees left the island following the
  resumption of volcanic activity in July 1995; some have returned
  (July 2001 est.)

Morocco:
  30,645,305 (July 2001 est.)

Mozambique:
  19,371,057

  note:  estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
  effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
  life expectancy, higher infant mortality and death rates, lower
  population and growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
  population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected; the 1997
  Mozambican census reported a population of 16,099,246 (July 2001
  est.)

Namibia:
  1,797,677

  note:  estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
  effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
  life expectancy, higher infant mortality and death rates, lower
  population and growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
  population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
  2001 est.)

Nauru:
  12,088 (July 2001 est.)

Navassa Island:
  uninhabited

  note:  transient Haitian fishermen and others camp on the island
  (July 2001 est.)

Nepal:
  25,284,463 (July 2001 est.)

Netherlands:
  15,981,472 (July 2001 est.)

Netherlands Antilles:
  212,226 (July 2001 est.)

New Caledonia:
  204,863 (July 2001 est.)

New Zealand:
  3,864,129 (July 2001 est.)

Nicaragua:
  4,918,393 (July 2001 est.)

Niger:
  10,355,156 (July 2001 est.)

Nigeria:
  126,635,626

  note:  estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
  effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
  life expectancy, higher infant mortality and death rates, lower
  population and growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
  population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
  2001 est.)

Niue:
  2,124 (July 2001 est.)

Norfolk Island:
  1,879 (July 2001 est.)

Northern Mariana Islands:
  74,612 (July 2001 est.)

Norway:
  4,503,440 (July 2001 est.)

Oman:
  2,622,198

  note:  includes 527,078 non-nationals (July 2001 est.)

Pakistan:
  144,616,639 (July 2001 est.)

Palau:
  19,092 (July 2001 est.)

Palmyra Atoll:
  no indigenous inhabitants; 4 to 20 Nature Conservancy
  staff, US Fish and Wildlife staff (July 2001 est.)

Panama:
  2,845,647 (July 2001 est.)

Papua New Guinea:
  5,049,055 (July 2001 est.)

Paracel Islands:
  no indigenous inhabitants

  note:  there are scattered Chinese garrisons (July 2001 est.)

Paraguay:
  5,734,139 (July 2001 est.)

Peru:
  27,483,864 (July 2001 est.)

Philippines:
  82,841,518 (July 2001 est.)

Pitcairn Islands:
  47 (July 2001 est.)

Poland:
  38,633,912 (July 2001 est.)

Portugal:
  10,066,253 (July 2001 est.)

Puerto Rico:
  3,937,316 (July 2001 est.)

Qatar:
  769,152 (July 2001 est.)

Reunion:
  732,570 (July 2001 est.)

Romania:
  22,364,022 (July 2001 est.)

Russia:
  145,470,197 (July 2001 est.)

Rwanda:
  7,312,756

  note:  estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
  effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
  life expectancy, higher infant mortality and death rates, lower
  population and growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
  population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
  2001 est.)

Saint Helena:
  7,266 (July 2001 est.)

Saint Kitts and Nevis:
  38,756 (July 2001 est.)

Saint Lucia:
  158,178 (July 2001 est.)

Saint Pierre and Miquelon:
  6,928 (July 2001 est.)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:
  115,942 (July 2001 est.)

Samoa:
  179,058 (July 2001 est.)

San Marino:
  27,336 (July 2001 est.)

Sao Tome and Principe:
  165,034 (July 2001 est.)

Saudi Arabia:
  22,757,092

  note:  includes 5,360,526 non-nationals (July 2001 est.)

Senegal:
  10,284,929 (July 2001 est.)

Seychelles:
  79,715 (July 2001 est.)

Sierra Leone:
  5,426,618 (July 2001 est.)

Singapore:
  4,300,419 (July 2001 est.)

Slovakia:
  5,414,937 (July 2001 est.)

Slovenia:
  1,930,132 (July 2001 est.)

Solomon Islands:
  480,442 (July 2001 est.)

Somalia:
  7,488,773

  note:  this estimate was derived from an official census taken in
  1975 by the Somali Government; population counting in Somalia is
  complicated by the large number of nomads and by refugee movements
  in response to famine and clan warfare (July 2001 est.)

South Africa:
  43,586,097

  note:  South Africa took a census October 1996 which showed a
  population of 40,583,611 (after an official adjustment for a 6.8%
  underenumeration based on a postenumeration survey); estimates for
  this country explicitly take into account the effects of excess
  mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower life expectancy,
  higher infant mortality and death rates, lower population and growth
  rates, and changes in the distribution of population by age and sex
  than would otherwise be expected (July 2001 est.)

South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands:
  no indigenous
  inhabitants

  note:  the small military garrison on South Georgia withdrew in
  March 2001, to be replaced by a permanent group of scientists of the
  British Antarctic Survey which also has a biological station on Bird
  Island; the South Sandwich Islands are uninhabited (July 2001 est.)

Spain:
  40,037,995 (July 2001 est.)

Spratly Islands:
  no indigenous inhabitants

  note:  there are scattered garrisons occupied by personnel of
  several claimant states (July 2001 est.)

Sri Lanka:
  19,408,635 (July 2001 est.)

  note:  since the outbreak of hostilities between the government and
  armed Tamil separatists in the mid-1980s, several hundred thousand
  Tamil civilians have fled the island; as of mid-1999, approximately
  66,000 were housed in 133 refugee camps in south India, another
  40,000 lived outside the Indian camps, and more than 200,000 Tamils
  have sought refuge in the West

Sudan:
  36,080,373 (July 2001 est.)

Suriname:
  433,998 (July 2001 est.)

Svalbard:
  2,332 (July 2001 est.)

Swaziland:
  1,104,343

  note:  estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
  effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
  life expectancy, higher infant mortality and death rates, lower
  population and growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
  population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
  2001 est.)

Sweden:
  8,875,053 (July 2001 est.)

Switzerland:
  7,283,274 (July 2001 est.)

Syria:
  16,728,808

  note:  in addition, there are about 38,200 people living in the
  Israeli-occupied Golan Heights - 18,200 Arabs (16,500 Druze and
  1,700 Alawites) and about 20,000 Israeli settlers (July 2001 est.)

Tajikistan:
  6,578,681 (July 2001 est.)

Tanzania:
  36,232,074

  note:  estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
  effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
  life expectancy, higher infant mortality and death rates, lower
  population and growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
  population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
  2001 est.)

Thailand:
  61,797,751

  note:  estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
  effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
  life expectancy, higher infant mortality and death rates, lower
  population and growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
  population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
  2001 est.)

Togo:
  5,153,088

  note:  estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
  effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
  life expectancy, higher infant mortality and death rates, lower
  population and growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
  population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
  2001 est.)

Tokelau:
  1,445 (July 2001 est.)

Tonga:
  104,227 (July 2001 est.)

Trinidad and Tobago:
  1,169,682 (July 2001 est.)

Tromelin Island:
  uninhabited (July 2001 est.)

Tunisia:
  9,705,102 (July 2001 est.)

Turkey:
  66,493,970 (July 2001 est.)

Turkmenistan:
  4,603,244 (July 2001 est.)

Turks and Caicos Islands:
  18,122 (July 2001 est.)

Tuvalu:
  10,991 (July 2001 est.)

Uganda:
  23,985,712

  note:  estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
  effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
  life expectancy, higher infant mortality and death rates, lower
  population and growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
  population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
  2001 est.)

Ukraine:
  48,760,474 (July 2001 est.)

United Arab Emirates:
  2,407,460

  note:  includes 1,576,472 non-nationals (July 2001 est.)

United Kingdom:
  59,647,790 (July 2001 est.)

United States:
  278,058,881 (July 2001 est.)

Uruguay:
  3,360,105 (July 2001 est.)

Uzbekistan:
  25,155,064 (July 2001 est.)

Vanuatu:
  192,910 (July 2001 est.)

Venezuela:
  23,916,810 (July 2001 est.)

Vietnam:
  79,939,014 (July 2001 est.)

Virgin Islands:
  122,211 (July 2001 est.)

Wake Island:
  no indigenous inhabitants

  note:  US military personnel have left the island, but civilian
  personnel remain; as of December 2000, one US Army civilian and 123
  civilian contractor personnel were present (January 2001 est.)

Wallis and Futuna:
  15,435 (July 2001 est.)

West Bank:
  2,090,713 (July 2001 est.)

  note:  in addition, there are some 176,000 Israeli settlers in the
  West Bank and about 173,000 in East Jerusalem (August 1999 est.)

Western Sahara:
  250,559 (July 2001 est.)

World:
  6,157,400,560 (July 2001 est.)

Yemen:
  18,078,035 (July 2001 est.)

Yugoslavia:
  10,677,290

  note:  all data dealing with population is subject to considerable
  error because of the dislocations caused by military action and
  ethnic cleansing (July 2001 est.)

Zambia:
  9,770,199

  note:  estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
  effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
  life expectancy, higher infant mortality and death rates, lower
  population and growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
  population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
  2001 est.)

Zimbabwe:
  11,365,366

  note:  estimates for this country explicitly take into account the
  effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower
  life expectancy, higher infant mortality and death rates, lower
  population and growth rates, and changes in the distribution of
  population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July
  2001 est.)

Taiwan:
  22,370,461 (July 2001 est.)

======================================================================

@Population below poverty line



Afghanistan:
  NA%

Albania:
  19.6% (1996 est.)

Algeria:
  23% (1999 est.)

American Samoa:
  NA%

Andorra:
  NA%

Angola:
  NA%

Anguilla:
  NA%

Antigua and Barbuda:
  NA%

Argentina:
  37% (1999 est.)

Armenia:
  45% (1999 est.)

Aruba:
  NA%

Australia:
  NA%

Austria:
  NA%

Azerbaijan:
  60% (2000 est.)

Bahamas, The:
  NA%

Bahrain:
  NA%

Bangladesh:
  35.6% (FY95/96 est.)

Barbados:
  NA%

Belarus:
  22% (1995 est.)

Belgium:
  4%

Belize:
  33% (1999 est.)

Benin:
  37.2% (1999 est.)

Bermuda:
  NA%

Bhutan:
  NA%

Bolivia:
  70% (1999 est.)

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  NA%

Botswana:
  47% (2000 est.)

Brazil:
  17.4% (1990 est.)

British Virgin Islands:
  NA%

Brunei:
  NA%

Bulgaria:
  35% (2000 est.)

Burkina Faso:
  NA%

Burma:
  23% (1997 est.)

Burundi:
  36.2% (1990 est.)

Cambodia:
  36% (1997 est.)

Cameroon:
  48% (2000 est.)

Canada:
  NA%

Cape Verde:
  NA%

Cayman Islands:
  NA%

Central African Republic:
  NA%

Chad:
  64% (1995 est.)

Chile:
  22% (1998 est.)

China:
  10% (1999 est.)

Christmas Island:
  NA%

Cocos (Keeling) Islands:
  NA%

Colombia:
  55% (1999)

Comoros:
  NA%

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  NA%

Congo, Republic of the:
  NA%

Cook Islands:
  NA%

Costa Rica:
  20.6% (1999 est.)

Cote d'Ivoire:
  NA%

Croatia:
  4% (1999 est.)

Cuba:
  NA%

Cyprus:
  NA%

Czech Republic:
  NA%

Denmark:
  NA%

Djibouti:
  NA%

Dominica:
  NA%

Dominican Republic:
  25% (1999 est.)

Ecuador:
  50% (1999 est.)

Egypt:
  22.9% (FY95/96 est.)

El Salvador:
  48% (1999 est.)

Equatorial Guinea:
  NA%

Eritrea:
  NA%

Estonia:
  8.9% (1995 est.)

Ethiopia:
  NA%

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas):
  NA%

Faroe Islands:
  NA%

Fiji:
  NA%

Finland:
  NA%

France:
  NA%

French Guiana:
  NA%

French Polynesia:
  NA%

Gabon:
  NA%

Gambia, The:
  NA%

Gaza Strip:
  NA%

Georgia:
  60% (1999 est.)

Germany:
  NA%

Ghana:
  31.4% (1992 est.)

Gibraltar:
  NA%

Greece:
  NA%

Greenland:
  NA%

Grenada:
  NA%

Guadeloupe:
  NA%

Guam:
  NA%

Guatemala:
  60% (2000 est.)

Guernsey:
  NA%

Guinea:
  40% (1994 est.)

Guinea-Bissau:
  50% (1991 est.)

Guyana:
  NA%

Haiti:
  80% (1998 est.)

Holy See (Vatican City):
  NA%

Honduras:
  53% (1993 est.)

Hong Kong:
  NA%

Hungary:
  8.6% (1993 est.)

Iceland:
  NA%

India:
  35% (1994 est.)

Indonesia:
  20% (1998)

Iran:
  53% (1996 est.)

Iraq:
  NA%

Ireland:
  10% (1997 est.)

Israel:
  NA%

Italy:
  NA%

Jamaica:
  34.2% (1992 est.)

Japan:
  NA%

Jersey:
  NA%

Jordan:
  30% (1998 est.)

Kazakhstan:
  35% (1999 est.)

Kenya:
  42% (1992 est.)

Kiribati:
  NA%

Korea, North:
  NA%

Korea, South:
  NA%

Kuwait:
  NA%

Kyrgyzstan:
  51% (1997 est.)

Laos:
  46.1% (1993 est.)

Latvia:
  NA%

Lebanon:
  28% (1999 est.)

Lesotho:
  49.2% (1999 est.)

Liberia:
  80%

Libya:
  NA%

Liechtenstein:
  NA%

Lithuania:
  NA%

Luxembourg:
  NA%

Macau:
  NA%

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  25% (2000 est.)

Madagascar:
  70% (1994 est.)

Malawi:
  54% (FY90/91 est.)

Malaysia:
  6.8% (1997 est.)

Maldives:
  NA%

Mali:
  NA%

Malta:
  NA%

Man, Isle of:
  NA%

Marshall Islands:
  NA%

Martinique:
  NA%

Mauritania:
  50% (1996 est.)

Mauritius:
  10.6% (1992 est.)

Mayotte:
  NA%

Mexico:
  27% (1998 est.)

Micronesia, Federated States of:
  NA%

Moldova:
  75% (1999 est.)

Monaco:
  NA%

Mongolia:
  40% (2000 est.)

Montserrat:
  NA%

Morocco:
  19% (1999 est.)

Mozambique:
  70% (2000 est.)

Namibia:
  NA%

Nauru:
  NA%

Nepal:
  42% (FY95/96 est.)

Netherlands:
  NA%

Netherlands Antilles:
  NA%

New Caledonia:
  NA%

New Zealand:
  NA%

Nicaragua:
  50% (2000 est.)

Niger:
  63% (1993 est.)

Nigeria:
  45% (2000 est.)

Niue:
  NA%

Norfolk Island:
  NA%

Northern Mariana Islands:
  NA%

Norway:
  NA%

Oman:
  NA%

Pakistan:
  40% (2000 est.)

Palau:
  NA%

Panama:
  37% (1999 est.)

Papua New Guinea:
  37%

Paraguay:
  36% (2000 est.)

Peru:
  49% (1994 est.)

Philippines:
  41% (1997 est.)

Pitcairn Islands:
  NA%

Poland:
  18.4% (2000 est.)

Portugal:
  NA%

Puerto Rico:
  NA%

Qatar:
  NA%

Reunion:
  NA%

Romania:
  44.5% (2000)

Russia:
  40% (1999 est.)

Rwanda:
  70% (2000 est.)

Saint Helena:
  NA%

Saint Kitts and Nevis:
  NA%

Saint Lucia:
  NA%

Saint Pierre and Miquelon:
  NA%

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:
  NA%

Samoa:
  NA%

San Marino:
  NA%

Sao Tome and Principe:
  NA%

Saudi Arabia:
  NA%

Senegal:
  NA%

Seychelles:
  NA%

Sierra Leone:
  68% (1989 est.)

Singapore:
  NA%

Slovakia:
  NA%

Slovenia:
  NA%

Solomon Islands:
  NA%

Somalia:
  NA%

South Africa:
  50% (2000 est.)

Spain:
  NA%

Sri Lanka:
  22% (1997 est.)

Sudan:
  NA%

Suriname:
  NA%

Svalbard:
  NA%

Swaziland:
  NA%

Sweden:
  NA%

Switzerland:
  NA%

Syria:
  15%-25%

Tajikistan:
  80% (2000 est.)

Tanzania:
  51.1% (1991 est.)

Thailand:
  12.5% (1998 est.)

Togo:
  32% (1989 est.)

Tokelau:
  NA%

Tonga:
  NA%

Trinidad and Tobago:
  21% (1992 est.)

Tunisia:
  6% (2000 est.)

Turkey:
  NA%

Turkmenistan:
  58% (1999 est.)

Turks and Caicos Islands:
  NA%

Tuvalu:
  NA%

Uganda:
  55% (1993 est.)

Ukraine:
  50% (1999 est.)

United Arab Emirates:
  NA%

United Kingdom:
  17%

United States:
  12.7% (1999 est.)

Uruguay:
  NA%

Uzbekistan:
  NA%

Vanuatu:
  NA%

Venezuela:
  67% (1997 est.)

Vietnam:
  37% (1998 est.)

Virgin Islands:
  NA%

Wallis and Futuna:
  NA%

West Bank:
  NA%

Western Sahara:
  NA%

Yemen:
  19% (1992 est.)

Yugoslavia:
  NA%

Zambia:
  86% (1993 est.)

Zimbabwe:
  60% (1999 est.)

Taiwan:
  1% (1999 est.)

======================================================================

@Population growth rate



Afghanistan:
  3.48% (2001 est.)

  note:  this rate reflects the continued return of refugees from Iran

Albania:
  0.88% (2001 est.)

Algeria:
  1.71% (2001 est.)

American Samoa:
  2.42% (2001 est.)

Andorra:
  1.17% (2001 est.)

Angola:
  2.15% (2001 est.)

Anguilla:
  2.68% (2001 est.)

Antigua and Barbuda:
  0.74% (2001 est.)

Argentina:
  1.15% (2001 est.)

Armenia:
  -0.21% (2001 est.)

Aruba:
  0.64% (2001 est.)

Australia:
  0.99% (2001 est.)

Austria:
  0.24% (2001 est.)

Azerbaijan:
  0.32% (2001 est.)

Bahamas, The:
  0.93% (2001 est.)

Bahrain:
  1.73% (2001 est.)

Bangladesh:
  1.59% (2001 est.)

Barbados:
  0.46% (2001 est.)

Belarus:
  -0.15% (2001 est.)

Belgium:
  0.16% (2001 est.)

Belize:
  2.7% (2001 est.)

Benin:
  2.97% (2001 est.)

Bermuda:
  0.74% (2001 est.)

Bhutan:
  2.17% (2001 est.)

Bolivia:
  1.76% (2001 est.)

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  1.38% (2001 est.)

Botswana:
  0.47% (2001 est.)

Brazil:
  0.91% (2001 est.)

British Virgin Islands:
  2.22% (2001 est.)

Brunei:
  2.11% (2001 est.)

Bulgaria:
  -1.14% (2001 est.)

Burkina Faso:
  2.68% (2001 est.)

Burma:
  0.6% (2001 est.)

Burundi:
  2.38% (2001 est.)

Cambodia:
  2.25% (2001 est.)

Cameroon:
  2.41% (2001 est.)

Canada:
  0.99% (2001 est.)

Cape Verde:
  0.92% (2001 est.)

Cayman Islands:
  2.12% (2001 est.)

Central African Republic:
  1.85% (2001 est.)

Chad:
  3.29% (2001 est.)

Chile:
  1.13% (2001 est.)

China:
  0.88% (2001 est.)

Christmas Island:
  7.77% (2001 est.)

Cocos (Keeling) Islands:
  -0.21% (2001 est.)

Colombia:
  1.64% (2001 est.)

Comoros:
  3.02% (2001 est.)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  3.1% (2001 est.)

Congo, Republic of the:
  2.2% (2001 est.)

Costa Rica:
  1.65% (2001 est.)

Cote d'Ivoire:
  2.51% (2001 est.)

Croatia:
  1.48% (2001 est.)

Cuba:
  0.37% (2001 est.)

Cyprus:
  0.59% (2001 est.)

Czech Republic:
  -0.07% (2001 est.)

Denmark:
  0.3% (2001 est.)

Djibouti:
  2.6% (2001 est.)

Dominica:
  -0.98% (2001 est.)

Dominican Republic:
  1.63% (2001 est.)

Ecuador:
  2% (2001 est.)

Egypt:
  1.69% (2001 est.)

El Salvador:
  1.85% (2001 est.)

Equatorial Guinea:
  2.46% (2001 est.)

Eritrea:
  3.84% (2001 est.)

Estonia:
  -0.55% (2001 est.)

Ethiopia:
  2.7% (2001 est.)

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas):
  2.43% (2001 est.)

Faroe Islands:
  0.78% (2001 est.)

Fiji:
  1.41% (2001 est.)

Finland:
  0.16% (2001 est.)

France:
  0.37% (2001 est.)

French Guiana:
  2.74% (2001 est.)

French Polynesia:
  1.72% (2001 est.)

Gabon:
  1.02% (2001 est.)

Gambia, The:
  3.14% (2001 est.)

Gaza Strip:
  4.01% (2001 est.)

Georgia:
  -0.59% (2001 est.)

Germany:
  0.27% (2001 est.)

Ghana:
  1.79% (2001 est.)

Gibraltar:
  0.24% (2001 est.)

Greece:
  0.21% (2001 est.)

Greenland:
  0.06% (2001 est.)

Grenada:
  -0.06% (2001 est.)

Guadeloupe:
  1.07% (2001 est.)

Guam:
  2.09% (2001 est.)

Guatemala:
  2.6% (2001 est.)

Guernsey:
  0.39% (2001 est.)

Guinea:
  1.96% (2001 est.)

Guinea-Bissau:
  2.23% (2001 est.)

Guyana:
  0.07% (2001 est.)

Haiti:
  1.4% (2001 est.)

Holy See (Vatican City):
  1.15% (2001 est.)

Honduras:
  2.43% (2001 est.)

Hong Kong:
  1.3% (2001 est.)

Hungary:
  -0.32% (2001 est.)

Iceland:
  0.54% (2001 est.)

India:
  1.55% (2001 est.)

Indonesia:
  1.6% (2001 est.)

Iran:
  0.72% (2001 est.)

Iraq:
  2.84% (2001 est.)

Ireland:
  1.12% (2001 est.)

Israel:
  1.58% (2001 est.)

Italy:
  0.07% (2001 est.)

Jamaica:
  0.51% (2001 est.)

Japan:
  0.17% (2001 est.)

Jersey:
  0.48% (2001 est.)

Johnston Atoll:
  -5.94% (2001 est.)

Jordan:
  3% (2001 est.)

Kazakhstan:
  0.03% (2001 est.)

Kenya:
  1.27% (2001 est.)

Kiribati:
  2.31% (2001 est.)

Korea, North:
  1.22% (2001 est.)

Korea, South:
  0.89% (2001 est.)

Kuwait:
  3.38% (2001 est.)

  note:  this rate reflects a return to pre-Gulf crisis immigration of
  expatriates

Kyrgyzstan:
  1.44% (2001 est.)

Laos:
  2.48% (2001 est.)

Latvia:
  -0.81% (2001 est.)

Lebanon:
  1.38% (2001 est.)

Lesotho:
  1.49% (2001 est.)

Liberia:
  1.92% (2001 est.)

Libya:
  2.42% (2001 est.)

Liechtenstein:
  0.98% (2001 est.)

Lithuania:
  -0.27% (2001 est.)

Luxembourg:
  1.26% (2001 est.)

Macau:
  1.79% (2001 est.)

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  0.43% (2001 est.)

Madagascar:
  3.02% (2001 est.)

Malawi:
  1.5% (2001 est.)

Malaysia:
  1.96% (2001 est.)

Maldives:
  3.01% (2001 est.)

Mali:
  2.97% (2001 est.)

Malta:
  0.74% (2001 est.)

Man, Isle of:
  0.52% (2001 est.)

Marshall Islands:
  3.88% (2001 est.)

Martinique:
  0.93% (2001 est.)

Mauritania:
  2.93% (2001 est.)

Mauritius:
  0.88% (2001 est.)

Mayotte:
  4.58% (2001 est.)

Mexico:
  1.5% (2001 est.)

Moldova:
  0.05% (2001 est.)

Monaco:
  0.46% (2001 est.)

Mongolia:
  1.47% (2001 est.)

Montserrat:
  13.39% (2001 est.)

Morocco:
  1.71% (2001 est.)

Mozambique:
  1.3% (2001 est.)

Namibia:
  1.38% (2001 est.)

Nauru:
  2% (2001 est.)

Nepal:
  2.32% (2001 est.)

Netherlands:
  0.55% (2001 est.)

Netherlands Antilles:
  0.97% (2001 est.)

New Caledonia:
  1.48% (2001 est.)

New Zealand:
  1.14% (2001 est.)

Nicaragua:
  2.15% (2001 est.)

Niger:
  2.72% (2001 est.)

Nigeria:
  2.61% (2001 est.)

Niue:
  0.5% (2001 est.)

Norfolk Island:
  -0.71% (2001 est.)

Northern Mariana Islands:
  3.62% (2001 est.)

Norway:
  0.49% (2001 est.)

Oman:
  3.43% (2001 est.)

Pakistan:
  2.11% (2001 est.)

Palau:
  1.69% (2001 est.)

Panama:
  1.3% (2001 est.)

Papua New Guinea:
  2.43% (2001 est.)

Paraguay:
  2.6% (2001 est.)

Peru:
  1.7% (2001 est.)

Philippines:
  2.03% (2001 est.)

Pitcairn Islands:
  -2.08% (2001 est.)

Poland:
  -0.03% (2001 est.)

Portugal:
  0.18% (2001 est.)

Puerto Rico:
  0.54% (2001 est.)

Qatar:
  3.18% (2001 est.)

Reunion:
  1.57% (2001 est.)

Romania:
  -0.21% (2001 est.)

Russia:
  -0.35% (2001 est.)

Rwanda:
  1.16% (2001 est.)

Saint Helena:
  0.72% (2001 est.)

Saint Kitts and Nevis:
  -0.11% (2001 est.)

Saint Lucia:
  1.23% (2001 est.)

Saint Pierre and Miquelon:
  0.43% (2001 est.)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:
  0.4% (2001 est.)

Samoa:
  -0.23% (2001 est.)

San Marino:
  1.45% (2001 est.)

Sao Tome and Principe:
  3.18% (2001 est.)

Saudi Arabia:
  3.27% (2001 est.)

Senegal:
  2.93% (2001 est.)

Seychelles:
  0.49% (2001 est.)

Sierra Leone:
  3.61% (2001 est.)

Singapore:
  3.5% (2001 est.)

Slovakia:
  0.13% (2001 est.)

Slovenia:
  0.14% (2001 est.)

Solomon Islands:
  2.98% (2001 est.)

Somalia:
  3.48% (2001 est.)

South Africa:
  0.26% (2001 est.)

Spain:
  0.1% (2001 est.)

Sri Lanka:
  0.87% (2001 est.)

Sudan:
  2.79% (2001 est.)

Suriname:
  0.6% (2001 est.)

Svalbard:
  -3.55% (2001 est.)

Swaziland:
  1.83% (2001 est.)

Sweden:
  0.02% (2001 est.)

Switzerland:
  0.27% (2001 est.)

Syria:
  2.54% (2001 est.)

Tajikistan:
  2.12% (2001 est.)

Tanzania:
  2.61% (2001 est.)

Thailand:
  0.91% (2001 est.)

Togo:
  2.6% (2001 est.)

Tokelau:
  -0.92% (2001 est.)

Tonga:
  1.79% (2001 est.)

Trinidad and Tobago:
  -0.51% (2001 est.)

Tunisia:
  1.15% (2001 est.)

Turkey:
  1.24% (2001 est.)

Turkmenistan:
  1.85% (2001 est.)

Turks and Caicos Islands:
  3.41% (2001 est.)

Tuvalu:
  1.4% (2001 est.)

Uganda:
  2.93% (2001 est.)

Ukraine:
  -0.78% (2001 est.)

United Arab Emirates:
  1.59% (2001 est.)

United Kingdom:
  0.23% (2001 est.)

United States:
  0.9% (2001 est.)

Uruguay:
  0.78% (2001 est.)

Uzbekistan:
  1.6% (2001 est.)

Vanuatu:
  1.7% (2001 est.)

Venezuela:
  1.56% (2001 est.)

Vietnam:
  1.45% (2001 est.)

Virgin Islands:
  1.06% (2001 est.)

Wallis and Futuna:
  NA%

West Bank:
  3.48% (2001 est.)

World:
  1.25% (2001 est.)

Yemen:
  3.38% (2001 est.)

Yugoslavia:
  -0.27% (2001 est.)

Zambia:
  1.93% (2001 est.)

Zimbabwe:
  0.15% (2001 est.)

Taiwan:
  0.8% (2001 est.)

======================================================================

@Ports and harbors



Afghanistan:
  Kheyrabad, Shir Khan

Albania:
  Durres, Sarande, Shengjin, Vlore

Algeria:
  Algiers, Annaba, Arzew, Bejaia, Beni Saf, Dellys,
  Djendjene, Ghazaouet, Jijel, Mostaganem, Oran, Skikda, Tenes

American Samoa:
  Aunu'u (new construction), Auasi, Faleosao, Ofu,
  Pago Pago, Ta'u

Andorra:
  none

Angola:
  Ambriz, Cabinda, Lobito, Luanda, Malongo, Mocamedes, Namibe,
  Porto Amboim, Soyo

Anguilla:
  Blowing Point, Road Bay

Antarctica:
  there are no developed ports and harbors in Antarctica;
  most coastal stations have offshore anchorages, and supplies are
  transferred from ship to shore by small boats, barges, and
  helicopters; a few stations have a basic wharf facility US coastal
  stations include McMurdo (77 51 S, 166 40 E), Palmer (64 43 S, 64 03
  W); government use only except by permit (see Permit Office under
  "Legal System"); offshore anchorage is sparse and intermittent

Antigua and Barbuda:
  Saint John's

Arctic Ocean:
  Churchill (Canada), Murmansk (Russia), Prudhoe Bay (US)

Argentina:
  Bahia Blanca, Buenos Aires, Comodoro Rivadavia,
  Concepcion del Uruguay, La Plata, Mar del Plata, Necochea, Rio
  Gallegos, Rosario, Santa Fe, Ushuaia

Armenia:
  none

Aruba:
  Barcadera, Oranjestad, Sint Nicolaas

Ashmore and Cartier Islands:
  none; offshore anchorage only

Atlantic Ocean:
  Alexandria (Egypt), Algiers (Algeria), Antwerp
  (Belgium), Barcelona (Spain), Buenos Aires (Argentina), Casablanca
  (Morocco), Colon (Panama), Copenhagen (Denmark), Dakar (Senegal),
  Gdansk (Poland), Hamburg (Germany), Helsinki (Finland), Las Palmas
  (Canary Islands, Spain), Le Havre (France), Lisbon (Portugal),
  London (UK), Marseille (France), Montevideo (Uruguay), Montreal
  (Canada), Naples (Italy), New Orleans (US), New York (US), Oran
  (Algeria), Oslo (Norway), Peiraiefs or Piraeus (Greece), Rio de
  Janeiro (Brazil), Rotterdam (Netherlands), Saint Petersburg
  (Russia), Stockholm (Sweden)

Australia:
  Adelaide, Brisbane, Cairns, Darwin, Devonport (Tasmania),
  Fremantle, Geelong, Hobart (Tasmania), Launceston (Tasmania),
  Mackay, Melbourne, Sydney, Townsville

Austria:
  Linz, Vienna, Enns, Krems

Azerbaijan:
  Baku (Baki)

Bahamas, The:
  Freeport, Matthew Town, Nassau

Bahrain:
  Manama, Mina' Salman, Sitrah

Baker Island:
  none; offshore anchorage only; note - there is one
  small boat landing area along the middle of the west coast

Bangladesh:
  Chittagong, Dhaka, Mongla Port, Narayanganj (2001)

Barbados:
  Bridgetown, Speightstown (Port Charles Marina)

Bassas da India:
  none; offshore anchorage only

Belarus:
  Mazyr

Belgium:
  Antwerp (one of the world's busiest ports), Brugge, Gent,
  Hasselt, Liege, Mons, Namur, Oostende, Zeebrugge

Belize:
  Belize City, Big Creek, Corozol, Punta Gorda

Benin:
  Cotonou, Porto-Novo

Bermuda:
  Hamilton, Saint George

Bhutan:
  none

Bolivia:
  none; however, Bolivia has free port privileges in maritime
  ports in Argentina, Brazil, Chile, and Paraguay

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  Bosanska Gradiska, Bosanski Brod, Bosanski
  Samac, and Brcko (all inland waterway ports on the Sava), Orasje

Botswana:
  none

Bouvet Island:
  none; offshore anchorage only

Brazil:
  Belem, Fortaleza, Ilheus, Imbituba, Manaus, Paranagua, Porto
  Alegre, Recife, Rio de Janeiro, Rio Grande, Salvador, Santos, Vitoria

British Indian Ocean Territory:
  Diego Garcia

British Virgin Islands:
  Road Town

Brunei:
  Bandar Seri Begawan, Kuala Belait, Muara, Seria, Tutong

Bulgaria:
  Burgas, Lom, Nesebur, Ruse, Varna, Vidin

Burkina Faso:
  none

Burma:
  Bassein, Bhamo, Chauk, Mandalay, Moulmein, Myitkyina,
  Rangoon, Akyab (Sittwe), Tavoy

Burundi:
  Bujumbura

Cambodia:
  Kampong Saom (Sihanoukville), Kampot, Krong Kaoh Kong,
  Phnom Penh

Cameroon:
  Bonaberi, Douala, Garoua, Kribi, Tiko

Canada:
  Becancour (Quebec), Churchill, Halifax, Hamilton, Montreal,
  New Westminster, Prince Rupert, Quebec, Saint John (New Brunswick),
  St. John's (Newfoundland), Sept Isles, Sydney, Trois-Rivieres,
  Thunder Bay, Toronto, Vancouver, Windsor

Cape Verde:
  Mindelo, Praia, Tarrafal

Cayman Islands:
  Cayman Brac, George Town

Central African Republic:
  Bangui, Nola

Chad:
  none

Chile:
  Antofagasta, Arica, Chanaral, Coquimbo, Iquique, Puerto
  Montt, Punta Arenas, San Antonio, San Vicente, Talcahuano, Valparaiso

China:
  Dalian, Fuzhou, Guangzhou, Haikou, Huangpu, Lianyungang,
  Nanjing, Nantong, Ningbo, Qingdao, Qinhuangdao, Shanghai, Shantou,
  Tianjin, Xiamen, Xingang, Yantai, Zhanjiang

Christmas Island:
  Flying Fish Cove

Clipperton Island:
  none; offshore anchorage only

Cocos (Keeling) Islands:
  none; lagoon anchorage only

Colombia:
  Bahia de Portete, Barranquilla, Buenaventura, Cartagena,
  Leticia, Puerto Bolivar, San Andres, Santa Marta, Tumaco, Turbo

Comoros:
  Fomboni, Moroni, Moutsamoudou

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  Banana, Boma, Bukavu, Bumba,
  Goma, Kalemie, Kindu, Kinshasa, Kisangani, Matadi, Mbandaka

Congo, Republic of the:
  Brazzaville, Impfondo, Ouesso, Oyo,
  Pointe-Noire

Cook Islands:
  Avarua, Avatiu

Coral Sea Islands:
  none; offshore anchorage only

Costa Rica:
  Caldera, Golfito, Moin, Puerto Limon, Puerto Quepos,
  Puntarenas

Cote d'Ivoire:
  Abidjan, Aboisso, Dabou, San-Pedro

Croatia:
  Dubrovnik, Dugi Rat, Omisalj, Ploce, Pula, Rijeka, Sibenik,
  Split, Vukovar (inland waterway port on Danube), Zadar

Cuba:
  Cienfuegos, Havana, Manzanillo, Mariel, Matanzas, Nuevitas,
  Santiago de Cuba

Cyprus:
  Famagusta, Kyrenia, Larnaca, Limassol, Paphos, Vasilikos

Czech Republic:
  Decin, Prague, Usti nad Labem

Denmark:
  Abenra, Alborg, Arhus, Copenhagen, Esbjerg, Fredericia,
  Kolding, Odense, Roenne (Bornholm), Vejle

Djibouti:
  Djibouti

Dominica:
  Portsmouth, Roseau

Dominican Republic:
  Barahona, La Romana, Puerto Plata, San Pedro de
  Macoris, Santo Domingo

Ecuador:
  Esmeraldas, Guayaquil, La Libertad, Manta, Puerto Bolivar,
  San Lorenzo

Egypt:
  Alexandria, Al Ghardaqah, Aswan, Asyut, Bur Safajah,
  Damietta, Marsa Matruh, Port Said, Suez

El Salvador:
  Acajutla, Puerto Cutuco, La Libertad, La Union, Puerto
  El Triunfo

Equatorial Guinea:
  Bata, Luba, Malabo

Eritrea:
  Assab (Aseb), Massawa (Mits'iwa)

Estonia:
  Haapsalu, Kunda, Muuga, Paldiski, Parnu, Tallinn

Ethiopia:
  none; Ethiopia is landlocked and was by agreement with
  Eritrea using the ports of Assab and Massawa; since the border
  dispute with Eritrea flared, Ethiopia has used the port of Djibouti
  for nearly all of its imports

Europa Island:
  none; offshore anchorage only

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas):
  Stanley

Faroe Islands:
  Torshavn, Klaksvik, Tvoroyri, Runavik, Fuglafjorour

Fiji:
  Lambasa, Lautoka, Levuka, Savusavu, Suva

Finland:
  Hamina, Helsinki, Kokkola, Kotka, Loviisa, Oulu, Pori,
  Rauma, Turku, Uusikaupunki, Varkaus

France:
  Bordeaux, Boulogne, Cherbourg, Dijon, Dunkerque, La Pallice,
  Le Havre, Lyon, Marseille, Mullhouse, Nantes, Paris, Rouen, Saint
  Nazaire, Saint Malo, Strasbourg

French Guiana:
  Cayenne, Degrad des Cannes, Saint-Laurent du Maroni

French Polynesia:
  Mataura, Papeete, Rikitea, Uturoa

French Southern and Antarctic Lands:
  none; offshore anchorage only

Gabon:
  Cap Lopez, Kango, Lambarene, Libreville, Mayumba, Owendo,
  Port-Gentil

Gambia, The:
  Banjul

Gaza Strip:
  Gaza

Georgia:
  Bat'umi, P'ot'i, Sokhumi

Germany:
  Berlin, Bonn, Brake, Bremen, Bremerhaven, Cologne, Dresden,
  Duisburg, Emden, Hamburg, Karlsruhe, Kiel, Luebeck, Magdeburg,
  Mannheim, Rostock, Stuttgart

Ghana:
  Takoradi, Tema

Gibraltar:
  Gibraltar

Glorioso Islands:
  none; offshore anchorage only

Greece:
  Alexandroupolis, Elefsis, Irakleion (Crete), Kavala,
  Kerkyra, Chalkis, Igoumenitsa, Lavrion, Patrai, Peiraiefs (Piraeus),
  Thessaloniki, Volos

Greenland:
  Aasiaat (Egedesminde), Ilulissat (Jakobshavn),
  Kangerlussuaq, Nanortalik, Narsarsuaq, Nuuk (Godthab), Qaqortoq
  (Julianehab), Sisimiut (Holsteinsborg), Tasiilaq (March 2001)

Grenada:
  Grenville, Saint George's

Guadeloupe:
  Basse-Terre, Gustavia (on Saint Barthelemy), Marigot,
  Pointe-a-Pitre

Guam:
  Apra Harbor

Guatemala:
  Champerico, Puerto Barrios, Puerto Quetzal, San Jose,
  Santo Tomas de Castilla

Guernsey:
  Saint Peter Port, Saint Sampson

Guinea:
  Boke, Conakry, Kamsar

Guinea-Bissau:
  Bissau, Buba, Cacheu, Farim

Guyana:
  Bartica, Georgetown, Linden, New Amsterdam, Parika

Haiti:
  Cap-Haitien, Gonaives, Jacmel, Jeremie, Les Cayes, Miragoane,
  Port-au-Prince, Port-de-Paix, Saint-Marc

Heard Island and McDonald Islands:
  none; offshore anchorage only

Holy See (Vatican City):
  none

Honduras:
  La Ceiba, Puerto Castilla, Puerto Cortes, San Lorenzo,
  Tela, Puerto Lempira

Hong Kong:
  Hong Kong

Howland Island:
  none; offshore anchorage only; note - there is one
  small boat landing area along the middle of the west coast

Hungary:
  Budapest, Dunaujvaros

Iceland:
  Akureyri, Hornafjordur, Isafjordhur, Keflavik, Raufarhofn,
  Reykjavik, Seydhisfjordhur, Straumsvik, Vestmannaeyjar

India:
  Chennai (Madras), Cochin, Jawaharal Nehru, Kandla, Kolkata
  (Calcutta), Mumbai (Bombay), Vishakhapatnam

Indian Ocean:
  Chennai (Madras; India), Colombo (Sri Lanka), Durban
  (South Africa), Jakarta (Indonesia), Kolkata (Calcutta; India)
  Melbourne (Australia), Mumbai (Bombay; India), Richards Bay (South
  Africa)

Indonesia:
  Cilacap, Cirebon, Jakarta, Kupang, Makassar, Palembang,
  Semarang, Surabaya

Iran:
  Abadan (largely destroyed in fighting during 1980-88 war),
  Ahvaz, Bandar 'Abbas, Bandar-e Anzali, Bushehr, Bandar-e Emam
  Khomeyni, Bandar-e Lengeh, Bandar-e Mahshahr, Bandar-e Torkaman,
  Chabahar (Bandar Beheshti), Jazireh-ye Khark, Jazireh-ye Lavan,
  Jazireh-ye Sirri, Khorramshahr (limited operation since November
  1992), Now Shahr

Iraq:
  Umm Qasr, Khawr az Zubayr, and Al Basrah have limited
  functionality

Ireland:
  Arklow, Cork, Drogheda, Dublin, Foynes, Galway, Limerick,
  New Ross, Waterford

Israel:
  Ashdod, Ashqelon, Elat (Eilat), Hadera, Haifa, Tel Aviv-Yafo

Italy:
  Augusta (Sicily), Bagnoli, Bari, Brindisi, Gela, Genoa, La
  Spezia, Livorno, Milazzo, Naples, Porto Foxi, Porto Torres
  (Sardinia), Salerno, Savona, Taranto, Trieste, Venice (2001)

Jamaica:
  Alligator Pond, Discovery Bay, Kingston, Montego Bay, Ocho
  Rios, Port Antonio, Rocky Point, Port Esquivel (Longswharf)

Jan Mayen:
  none; offshore anchorage only

Japan:
  Akita, Amagasaki, Chiba, Hachinohe, Hakodate, Higashi-Harima,
  Himeji, Hiroshima, Kawasaki, Kinuura, Kobe, Kushiro, Mizushima,
  Moji, Nagoya, Osaka, Sakai, Sakaide, Shimizu, Tokyo, Tomakomai

Jarvis Island:
  none; offshore anchorage only; note - there is one
  small boat landing area in the middle of the west coast and another
  near the southwest corner of the island

Jersey:
  Gorey, Saint Aubin, Saint Helier

Johnston Atoll:
  Johnston Island

Jordan:
  Al 'Aqabah

Juan de Nova Island:
  none; offshore anchorage only

Kazakhstan:
  Aqtau (Shevchenko), Atyrau (Gur'yev), Oskemen
  (Ust-Kamenogorsk), Pavlodar, Semey (Semipalatinsk)

Kenya:
  Kisumu, Lamu, Mombasa

Kingman Reef:
  none; offshore anchorage only

Kiribati:
  Banaba, Betio, English Harbor, Kanton

Korea, North:
  Ch'ongjin, Haeju, Hungnam (Hamhung), Kimch'aek,
  Kosong, Najin, Namp'o, Sinuiju, Songnim, Sonbong (formerly Unggi),
  Ungsang, Wonsan

Korea, South:
  Chinhae, Inch'on, Kunsan, Masan, Mokp'o, P'ohang,
  Pusan, Tonghae-hang, Ulsan, Yosu

Kuwait:
  Ash Shu'aybah, Ash Shuwaykh, Kuwait, Mina' 'Abd Allah, Mina'
  al Ahmadi, Mina' Su'ud

Kyrgyzstan:
  Balykchy (Ysyk-Kol or Rybach'ye)

Laos:
  none

Latvia:
  Daugavpils, Liepaja, Riga, Ventspils

Lebanon:
  Antilyas, Batroun, Beirut, Chekka, El Mina, Ez Zahrani,
  Jbail, Jounie, Naqoura, Sidon, Tripoli, Tyre

Lesotho:
  none

Liberia:
  Buchanan, Greenville, Harper, Monrovia

Libya:
  Al Khums, Banghazi, Darnah, Marsa al Burayqah, Misratah, Ra's
  Lanuf, Tobruk, Tripoli, Zuwarah

Liechtenstein:
  none

Lithuania:
  Butinge, Kaunas, Klaipeda

Luxembourg:
  Mertert

Macau:
  Macau

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  none

Madagascar:
  Antsiranana, Antsohimbondrona, Mahajanga, Toamasina,
  Toliara

Malawi:
  Chipoka, Monkey Bay, Nkhata Bay, Nkhotakota, Chilumba

Malaysia:
  Bintulu, Kota Kinabalu, Kuantan, Kuching, Kudat, Labuan,
  Lahad Datu, Lumut, Miri, Pasir Gudang, Penang, Port Dickson, Port
  Kelang, Sandakan, Sibu, Tanjung Berhala, Tanjung Kidurong, Tawau

Maldives:
  Gan, Male

Mali:
  Koulikoro

Malta:
  Marsaxlokk, Valletta

Man, Isle of:
  Castletown, Douglas, Peel, Ramsey

Marshall Islands:
  Majuro

Martinique:
  Fort-de-France, La Trinite

Mauritania:
  Bogue, Kaedi, Nouadhibou, Nouakchott, Rosso

Mauritius:
  Port Louis

Mayotte:
  Dzaoudzi

Mexico:
  Acapulco, Altamira, Coatzacoalcos, Ensenada, Guaymas, La
  Paz, Lazaro Cardenas, Manzanillo, Mazatlan, Progreso, Salina Cruz,
  Tampico, Topolobampo, Tuxpan, Veracruz

Micronesia, Federated States of:
  Colonia (Yap), Kolonia (Pohnpei),
  Lele, Moen

Midway Islands:
  Sand Island

Moldova:
  none

Monaco:
  Monaco

Mongolia:
  none

Montserrat:
  Plymouth (abandoned), Little Bay (anchorages and ferry
  landing), Carr's Bay

Morocco:
  Agadir, El Jadida, Casablanca, El Jorf Lasfar, Kenitra,
  Mohammedia, Nador, Rabat, Safi, Tangier; also Spanish-controlled
  Ceuta and Melilla

Mozambique:
  Beira, Inhambane, Maputo, Nacala, Pemba, Quelimane

Namibia:
  Luderitz, Walvis Bay

Nauru:
  Nauru

Navassa Island:
  none; offshore anchorage only

Nepal:
  none

Netherlands:
  Amsterdam, Delfzijl, Dordrecht, Eemshaven, Groningen,
  Haarlem, Ijmuiden, Maastricht, Rotterdam, Terneuzen, Utrecht,
  Vlissingen

Netherlands Antilles:
  Kralendijk, Philipsburg, Willemstad

New Caledonia:
  Mueo, Noumea, Thio

New Zealand:
  Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin, Tauranga, Wellington

Nicaragua:
  Bluefields, Corinto, El Bluff, Puerto Cabezas, Puerto
  Sandino, Rama, San Juan del Sur

Niger:
  none

Nigeria:
  Calabar, Lagos, Onne, Port Harcourt, Sapele, Warri

Niue:
  none; offshore anchorage only

Norfolk Island:
  none; loading jetties at Kingston and Cascade

Northern Mariana Islands:
  Saipan, Tinian

Norway:
  Bergen, Drammen, Floro, Hammerfest, Harstad, Haugesund,
  Kristiansand, Larvik, Narvik, Oslo, Porsgrunn, Stavanger, Tromso,
  Trondheim

Oman:
  Matrah, Mina' al Fahl, Mina' Raysut

Pacific Ocean:
  Bangkok (Thailand), Hong Kong, Kao-hsiung (Taiwan),
  Los Angeles (US), Manila (Philippines), Pusan (South Korea), San
  Francisco (US), Seattle (US), Shanghai (China), Singapore, Sydney
  (Australia), Vladivostok (Russia), Wellington (NZ), Yokohama (Japan)

Pakistan:
  Karachi, Port Muhammad bin Qasim

Palau:
  Koror

Palmyra Atoll:
  West Lagoon

Panama:
  Balboa, Cristobal, Coco Solo, Manzanillo (part of Colon
  area), Vacamonte

Papua New Guinea:
  Kieta, Lae, Madang, Port Moresby, Rabaul

Paracel Islands:
  small Chinese port facilities on Woody Island and
  Duncan Island being expanded

Paraguay:
  Asuncion, Villeta, San Antonio, Encarnacion

Peru:
  Callao, Chimbote, Ilo, Matarani, Paita, Puerto Maldonado,
  Salaverry, San Martin, Talara, Iquitos, Pucallpa, Yurimaguas

  note:  Iquitos, Pucallpa, and Yurimaguas are all on the upper
  reaches of the Amazon and its tributaries

Philippines:
  Batangas, Cagayan de Oro, Cebu, Davao, Guimaras Island,
  Iligan, Iloilo, Jolo, Legaspi, Manila, Masao, Puerto Princesa, San
  Fernando, Subic Bay, Zamboanga

Pitcairn Islands:
  Bounty Bay

Poland:
  Gdansk, Gdynia, Gliwice, Kolobrzeg, Szczecin, Swinoujscie,
  Ustka, Warsaw, Wroclaw

Portugal:
  Aveiro, Funchal (Madeira Islands), Horta (Azores),
  Leixoes, Lisbon, Porto, Ponta Delgada (Azores), Praia da Vitoria
  (Azores), Setubal, Viana do Castelo

Puerto Rico:
  Guanica, Guayanilla, Guayama, Playa de Ponce, San Juan

Qatar:
  Doha, Halul Island, Umm Sa'id (Musay'id)

Reunion:
  Le Port, Pointe des Galets

Romania:
  Braila, Constanta, Galati, Mangalia, Sulina, Tulcea

Russia:
  Arkhangel'sk, Astrakhan', Kaliningrad, Kazan', Khabarovsk,
  Kholmsk, Krasnoyarsk, Moscow, Murmansk, Nakhodka, Nevel'sk,
  Novorossiysk, Petropavlovsk-Kamchatskiy, Saint Petersburg, Rostov,
  Sochi, Tuapse, Vladivostok, Volgograd, Vostochnyy, Vyborg

Rwanda:
  Cyangugu, Gisenyi, Kibuye

Saint Helena:
  Georgetown (on Ascension), Jamestown

Saint Kitts and Nevis:
  Basseterre, Charlestown

Saint Lucia:
  Castries, Vieux Fort

Saint Pierre and Miquelon:
  Saint Pierre

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:
  Kingstown

Samoa:
  Apia, Asau, Mulifanua, Salelologa

San Marino:
  none

Sao Tome and Principe:
  Santo Antonio, Sao Tome

Saudi Arabia:
  Ad Dammam, Al Jubayl, Duba, Jiddah, Jizan, Rabigh,
  Ra's al Khafji, Mishab, Ras Tanura, Yanbu' al Bahr, Madinat Yanbu'
  al Sinaiyah

Senegal:
  Dakar, Kaolack, Matam, Podor, Richard Toll, Saint-Louis,
  Ziguinchor

Seychelles:
  Victoria

Sierra Leone:
  Bonthe, Freetown, Pepel

Singapore:
  Singapore

Slovakia:
  Bratislava, Komarno

Slovenia:
  Izola, Koper, Piran

Solomon Islands:
  Aola Bay, Honiara, Lofung, Noro, Viru Harbor,
  Yandina

Somalia:
  Bender Cassim (Boosaaso), Berbera, Chisimayu (Kismaayo),
  Merca, Mogadishu

South Africa:
  Cape Town, Durban, East London, Mosselbaai, Port
  Elizabeth, Richards Bay, Saldanha

South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands:
  Grytviken

Southern Ocean:
  McMurdo, Palmer, and offshore anchorages in
  Antarctica

  note:  few ports or harbors exist on the southern side of the
  Southern Ocean; ice conditions limit use of most of them to short
  periods in midsummer; even then some cannot be entered without
  icebreaker escort; most antarctic ports are operated by government
  research stations and, except in an emergency, are not open to
  commercial or private vessels; vessels in any port south of 60
  degrees south are subject to inspection by Antarctic Treaty observers

Spain:
  Aviles, Barcelona, Bilbao, Cadiz, Cartagena, Castellon de la
  Plana, Ceuta, Huelva, La Coruna, Las Palmas (Canary Islands),
  Malaga, Melilla, Pasajes, Gijon, Santa Cruz de Tenerife (Canary
  Islands), Santander, Tarragona, Valencia, Vigo

Spratly Islands:
  none; offshore anchorage only

Sri Lanka:
  Colombo, Galle, Jaffna, Trincomalee

Sudan:
  Juba, Khartoum, Kusti, Malakal, Nimule, Port Sudan, Sawakin

Suriname:
  Albina, Moengo, New Nickerie, Paramaribo, Paranam,
  Wageningen

Svalbard:
  Barentsburg, Longyearbyen, Ny-Alesund, Pyramiden

Swaziland:
  none

Sweden:
  Gavle, Goteborg, Halmstad, Helsingborg, Hudiksvall, Kalmar,
  Karlshamn, Malmo, Solvesborg, Stockholm, Sundsvall

Switzerland:
  Basel

Syria:
  Baniyas, Jablah, Latakia, Tartus

Tajikistan:
  none

Tanzania:
  Bukoba, Dar es Salaam, Kigoma, Kilwa Masoko, Lindi,
  Mtwara, Mwanza, Pangani, Tanga, Wete, Zanzibar

Thailand:
  Bangkok, Laem Chabang, Pattani, Phuket, Sattahip, Si
  Racha, Songkhla

Togo:
  Kpeme, Lome

Tokelau:
  none; offshore anchorage only

Tonga:
  Neiafu, Nuku'alofa, Pangai

Trinidad and Tobago:
  Pointe-a-Pierre, Point Fortin, Point Lisas,
  Port-of-Spain, Scarborough, Tembladora

Tromelin Island:
  none; offshore anchorage only

Tunisia:
  Bizerte, Gabes, La Goulette, Sfax, Sousse, Tunis, Zarzis

Turkey:
  Gemlik, Hopa, Iskenderun, Istanbul, Izmir, Kocaeli (Izmit),
  Icel (Mersin), Samsun, Trabzon

Turkmenistan:
  Turkmenbashi

Turks and Caicos Islands:
  Grand Turk, Providenciales

Tuvalu:
  Funafuti, Nukufetau

Uganda:
  Entebbe, Jinja, Port Bell

Ukraine:
  Berdyans'k, Illichivs'k, Izmayil, Kerch, Kherson, Kiev
  (Kyyiv), Mariupol', Mykolayiv, Odesa, Reni, Sevastopol'

United Arab Emirates:
  'Ajman, Al Fujayrah, Das Island, Khawr Fakkan,
  Mina' Jabal 'Ali, Mina' Khalid, Mina' Rashid, Mina' Saqr, Mina'
  Zayid, Umm al Qaywayn

United Kingdom:
  Aberdeen, Belfast, Bristol, Cardiff, Dover,
  Falmouth, Felixstowe, Glasgow, Grangemouth, Hull, Leith, Liverpool,
  London, Manchester, Peterhead, Plymouth, Portsmouth, Scapa Flow,
  Southampton, Sullom Voe, Tees, Tyne

United States:
  Anchorage, Baltimore, Boston, Charleston, Chicago,
  Duluth, Hampton Roads, Honolulu, Houston, Jacksonville, Los Angeles,
  New Orleans, New York, Philadelphia, Port Canaveral, Portland
  (Oregon), Prudhoe Bay, San Francisco, Savannah, Seattle, Tampa,
  Toledo

Uruguay:
  Fray Bentos, Montevideo, Nueva Palmira, Paysandu, Punta del
  Este, Colonia, Piriapolis

Uzbekistan:
  Termiz (Amu Darya river)

Vanuatu:
  Forari, Port-Vila, Santo (Espiritu Santo)

Venezuela:
  Amuay, Bajo Grande, El Tablazo, La Guaira, La Salina,
  Maracaibo, Matanzas, Palua, Puerto Cabello, Puerto la Cruz, Puerto
  Ordaz, Puerto Sucre, Punta Cardon

Vietnam:
  Cam Ranh, Da Nang, Haiphong, Ho Chi Minh City, Ha Long, Quy
  Nhon, Nha Trang, Vinh, Vung Tau

Virgin Islands:
  Charlotte Amalie, Christiansted, Cruz Bay, Port
  Alucroix

Wake Island:
  none; two offshore anchorages for large ships

Wallis and Futuna:
  Leava, Mata-Utu

West Bank:
  none

Western Sahara:
  Ad Dakhla, Cabo Bojador, Laayoune (El Aaiun)

World:
  Chiba, Houston, Kawasaki, Kobe, Marseille, Mina' al Ahmadi
  (Kuwait), New Orleans, New York, Rotterdam, Yokohama

Yemen:
  Aden, Al Hudaydah, Al Mukalla, As Salif, Mocha, Nishtun

Yugoslavia:
  Bar, Belgrade, Kotor, Novi Sad, Pancevo, Tivat, Zelenika

Zambia:
  Mpulungu

Zimbabwe:
  Binga, Kariba

Taiwan:
  Chi-lung (Keelung), Hua-lien, Kao-hsiung, Su-ao, T'ai-chung

======================================================================

@Radio broadcast stations



Afghanistan:
  AM 7 (6 are inactive; the active station is in Kabul),
  FM 1, shortwave 1 (broadcasts in Pushtu, Dari, Urdu, and English)
  (1999)

Albania:
  AM 16, FM 3, shortwave 2 (1999)

Algeria:
  AM 25, FM 1, shortwave 8 (1999)

American Samoa:
  AM 1, FM 1, shortwave 0 (1998)

Andorra:
  AM 0, FM 15, shortwave 0 (1998)

Angola:
  AM 34, FM 7, shortwave 9 (1999)

Anguilla:
  AM 5, FM 6, shortwave 1 (1998)

Antarctica:
  AM NA, FM 2, shortwave 1

  note:  information for US bases only (1998)

Antigua and Barbuda:
  AM 4, FM 2, shortwave 0 (1998)

Argentina:
  AM 260 (including 10 inactive stations), FM NA (probably
  more than 1,000, mostly unlicensed), shortwave 6 (1998)

Armenia:
  AM 9, FM 6, shortwave 1 (1998)

Aruba:
  AM 4, FM 6, shortwave 0 (1998)

Australia:
  AM 262, FM 345, shortwave 1 (1998)

Austria:
  AM 1, FM 61 (plus several hundred repeaters), shortwave 1
  (1998)

Azerbaijan:
  AM 10, FM 17, shortwave 1 (1998)

Bahamas, The:
  AM 3, FM 4, shortwave 0 (1998)

Bahrain:
  AM 2, FM 3, shortwave 0 (1998)

Bangladesh:
  AM 12, FM 12, shortwave 2 (1999)

Barbados:
  AM 2, FM 3, shortwave 0 (1998)

Belarus:
  AM 28, FM 37, shortwave 11 (1998)

Belgium:
  FM 79, AM 7, shortwave 1 (1998)

Belize:
  AM 1, FM 12, shortwave 0 (1998)

Benin:
  AM 2, FM 9, shortwave 4 (1998)

Bermuda:
  AM 5, FM 3, shortwave 0 (1998)

Bhutan:
  AM 0, FM 1, shortwave 1 (1998)

Bolivia:
  AM 171, FM 73, shortwave 77 (1999)

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  AM 8, FM 16, shortwave 1 (1998)

Botswana:
  AM 7, FM 15, shortwave 5 (1998)

Brazil:
  AM 1,365, FM 296, shortwave 161 (of which 91 are collocated
  with AM stations) (1999)

British Indian Ocean Territory:
  AM 1, FM 2, shortwave 0 (1998)

British Virgin Islands:
  AM 1, FM 4, shortwave 0 (1998)

Brunei:
  AM 3, FM 10, shortwave 0 (1998)

Bulgaria:
  AM 24, FM 93, shortwave 2 (1998)

Burkina Faso:
  AM 2, FM 17, shortwave 1 (1998)

Burma:
  AM 2, FM 3, shortwave 3 (1998)

Burundi:
  AM 2, FM 2, shortwave 0 (1998)

Cambodia:
  AM 7, FM 3, shortwave 3 (1999)

Cameroon:
  AM 11, FM 8, shortwave 3 (1998)

Canada:
  AM 535, FM 53, shortwave 6 (1998)

Cape Verde:
  AM 0, FM 11 (and 14 repeaters), shortwave 0 (1998)

Cayman Islands:
  AM 1, FM 5, shortwave 0 (1998)

Central African Republic:
  AM 1, FM 3, shortwave 1 (1998)

Chad:
  AM 2, FM 3, shortwave 5 (1998)

Chile:
  AM 180 (eight inactive), FM 64, shortwave 17 (one inactive)
  (1998)

China:
  AM 369, FM 259, shortwave 45 (1998)

Christmas Island:
  AM 1, FM 1, shortwave 0 (1998)

Cocos (Keeling) Islands:
  AM 1, FM 0, shortwave 0 (1998)

Colombia:
  AM 454, FM 34, shortwave 27 (1999)

Comoros:
  AM 1, FM 2, shortwave 1 (1998)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  AM 3, FM 12, shortwave 1 (1999)

Congo, Republic of the:
  AM 1, FM 5, shortwave 1 (1999)

Cook Islands:
  AM 1, FM 2, shortwave 0 (1998)

Costa Rica:
  AM 50, FM 43, shortwave 19 (1998)

Cote d'Ivoire:
  AM 2, FM 8, shortwave 3 (1998)

Croatia:
  AM 16, FM 98, shortwave 5 (1999)

Cuba:
  AM 169, FM 55, shortwave 1 (1998)

Cyprus:
  Greek Cypriot area: AM 7, FM 60, shortwave 1 (1998); Turkish
  Cypriot area: AM 3, FM 11, shortwave 1 (1998)

Czech Republic:
  AM 31, FM 304, shortwave 17 (2000)

Denmark:
  AM 2, FM 355, shortwave 0 (1998)

Djibouti:
  AM 2, FM 2, shortwave 0 (1998)

Dominica:
  AM 3, FM 10, shortwave 0 (1998)

Dominican Republic:
  AM 120, FM 56, shortwave 4 (1998)

Ecuador:
  AM 392, FM 27, shortwave 29 (1998)

Egypt:
  AM 42 (plus 15 repeaters), FM 14, shortwave 3 (1999)

El Salvador:
  AM 61 (plus 24 repeaters), FM 30, shortwave 0 (1998)

Equatorial Guinea:
  AM 0, FM 2, shortwave 4 (1998)

Eritrea:
  AM 2, FM 1, shortwave 2 (2000)

Estonia:
  AM 3 (all AM stations inactive since July 1998), FM 82,
  shortwave 1 (1998)

Ethiopia:
  AM 5, FM 0, shortwave 2 (1999)

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas):
  AM 1, FM 7, shortwave 0 (1998)

Faroe Islands:
  AM 1, FM 13, shortwave 0 (1998)

Fiji:
  AM 13, FM 40, shortwave 0 (1998)

Finland:
  AM 2, FM 186, shortwave 1 (1998)

France:
  AM 41, FM about 3,500 (this figure is an approximation and
  includes many repeaters), shortwave 2 (1998)

French Guiana:
  AM 2, FM 14 (including 6 repeaters), shortwave 6
  (including 5 repeaters) (1998)

French Polynesia:
  AM 2, FM 14, shortwave 2 (1998)

Gabon:
  AM 6, FM 7, shortwave 6 (1998)

Gambia, The:
  AM 3, FM 5, shortwave 0 (2000)

Gaza Strip:
  AM 0, FM 0, shortwave 0 (1998)

Georgia:
  AM 7, FM 12, shortwave 4 (1998)

Germany:
  AM 51, FM 767, shortwave 4 (1998)

Ghana:
  AM 0, FM 18, shortwave 3 (1999)

Gibraltar:
  AM 1, FM 5, shortwave 0 (1998)

Greece:
  AM 26, FM 88, shortwave 4 (1998)

Greenland:
  AM 5, FM 12, shortwave 0 (1998)

Grenada:
  AM 2, FM 1, shortwave 0 (1998)

Guadeloupe:
  AM 1, FM 17, shortwave 0 (1998)

Guam:
  AM 4, FM 7, shortwave 0 (1998)

Guatemala:
  AM 130, FM 487, shortwave 15 (2000)

Guernsey:
  AM 1, FM 1, shortwave 0 (1998)

Guinea:
  AM 4, FM 8, shortwave 3 (1998)

Guinea-Bissau:
  AM 1, FM 2, shortwave 0 (1998)

Guyana:
  AM 3, FM 3, shortwave 1 (1998)

Haiti:
  AM 41, FM 26, shortwave 0 (1999)

Holy See (Vatican City):
  AM 3, FM 4, shortwave 2 (1998)

Honduras:
  AM 241, FM 53, shortwave 12 (1998)

Hong Kong:
  AM 7, FM 13, shortwave 0 (1998)

Hungary:
  AM 17, FM 57, shortwave 3 (1998)

Iceland:
  AM 3, FM about 70 (including repeaters), shortwave 1 (1998)

India:
  AM 153, FM 91, shortwave 68 (1998)

Indonesia:
  AM 678, FM 43, shortwave 82 (1998)

Iran:
  AM 72, FM 5, shortwave 5 (1998)

Iraq:
  AM 19 (5 are inactive), FM 51, shortwave 4 (1998)

Ireland:
  AM 9, FM 106, shortwave 0 (1998)

Israel:
  AM 23, FM 15, shortwave 2 (1998)

Italy:
  AM about 100, FM about 4,600, shortwave 9 (1998)

Jamaica:
  AM 10, FM 13, shortwave 0 (1998)

Jan Mayen:
  AM NA, FM NA, shortwave NA

  note:  there is one radio and meteorological station (1998)

Japan:
  AM 190, FM 88, shortwave 24 (1999)

Jersey:
  AM NA, FM 1, shortwave 0 (1998)

Johnston Atoll:
  AM NA, FM NA, shortwave NA

Jordan:
  AM 6, FM 5, shortwave 1 (1999)

Kazakhstan:
  AM 60, FM 17, shortwave 9 (1998)

Kenya:
  AM 24, FM 8, shortwave 6 (1999)

Kiribati:
  AM 1, FM 1, shortwave 1 (1998)

Korea, North:
  AM 16, FM 14, shortwave 12 (1999)

Korea, South:
  AM 106, FM 97, shortwave 6 (1999)

Kuwait:
  AM 6, FM 11, shortwave 1 (1998)

Kyrgyzstan:
  AM 12 (plus 10 repeater stations), FM 14, shortwave 2
  (1998)

Laos:
  AM 12, FM 1, shortwave 4 (1998)

Latvia:
  AM 8, FM 56, shortwave 1 (1998)

Lebanon:
  AM 20, FM 22, shortwave 4 (1998)

Lesotho:
  AM 1, FM 2, shortwave 1 (1998)

Liberia:
  AM 0, FM 6, shortwave 4 (1999)

Libya:
  AM 17, FM 4, shortwave 3 (1998)

Liechtenstein:
  AM 0, FM 4, shortwave 0 (1998)

Lithuania:
  AM 3, FM 112, shortwave 1 (1998)

Luxembourg:
  AM 2, FM 9, shortwave 2 (1999)

Macau:
  AM 0, FM 2, shortwave 0 (1998)

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  AM 29, FM 20, shortwave
  0 (1998)

Madagascar:
  AM 2 (plus 8 repeater stations), FM 7, shortwave 5 (1998)

Malawi:
  AM 9, FM 4 (plus 15 repeater stations), shortwave 3 (1998)

Malaysia:
  AM 56, FM 31 (plus 13 repeater stations), shortwave 5
  (1999)

Maldives:
  AM 1, FM 1, shortwave 1 (1998)

Mali:
  AM 1, FM 14, shortwave 7 (1998)

Malta:
  AM 1, FM 18, shortwave 6 (1999)

Man, Isle of:
  AM 1, FM 1, shortwave 0 (1998)

Marshall Islands:
  AM 3, FM 4, shortwave 0 (1998)

Martinique:
  AM 0, FM 14, shortwave 0 (1998)

Mauritania:
  AM 1, FM 2, shortwave 1 (1998)

Mauritius:
  AM 5, FM 9, shortwave 2 (1998)

Mayotte:
  AM 1, FM 4, shortwave 0 (1998)

Mexico:
  AM 865, FM about 500, shortwave 13 (1999)

Micronesia, Federated States of:
  AM 5, FM 1, shortwave 0 (1998)

Moldova:
  AM 7, FM 50, shortwave 3 (1998)

Monaco:
  AM 1, FM NA, shortwave 8 (1998)

Mongolia:
  AM 7, FM 9, shortwave 4 (2001)

Montserrat:
  AM 1, FM 2, shortwave 0 (1998)

Morocco:
  AM 27, FM 25, shortwave 6 (1998)

Mozambique:
  AM 13, FM 16, shortwave 12 (2000)

Namibia:
  AM 2, FM 34, shortwave 5 (1998)

Nauru:
  AM 1, FM 0, shortwave 0 (1998)

Nepal:
  AM 6, FM 5, shortwave 1 (January 2000)

Netherlands:
  AM 4, FM 58, shortwave 3 (1998)

Netherlands Antilles:
  AM 9, FM 4, shortwave 0 (1998)

New Caledonia:
  AM 1, FM 5, shortwave 0 (1998)

New Zealand:
  AM 124, FM 290, shortwave 4 (1998)

Nicaragua:
  AM 63, FM 32, shortwave 1 (1998)

Niger:
  AM 5, FM 5, shortwave 4 (1998)

Nigeria:
  AM 82, FM 35, shortwave 11 (1998)

Niue:
  AM 1, FM 1, shortwave 0 (1998)

Norfolk Island:
  AM 0, FM 3, shortwave 0 (1998)

Northern Mariana Islands:
  AM 2, FM 3, shortwave 1 (1998)

Norway:
  AM 5, FM at least 650, shortwave 1 (1998)

Oman:
  AM 3, FM 9, shortwave 2 (1999)

Pakistan:
  AM 27, FM 1, shortwave 21 (1998)

Palau:
  AM 1, FM 0, shortwave 1 (1998)

Panama:
  AM 101, FM 134, shortwave 0 (1998)

Papua New Guinea:
  AM 8, FM 19, shortwave 28 (1998)

Paraguay:
  AM 46, FM 27, shortwave 6 (three inactive) (1998)

Peru:
  AM 472, FM 198, shortwave 189 (1999)

Philippines:
  AM 366, FM 290, shortwave 3 (1999)

Pitcairn Islands:
  AM 1, FM 0, shortwave 0 (1998)

Poland:
  AM 14, FM 777, shortwave 1 (1998)

Portugal:
  AM 47, FM 172 (many are repeaters), shortwave 2 (1998)

Puerto Rico:
  AM 72, FM 17, shortwave 0 (1998)

Qatar:
  AM 6, FM 5, shortwave 1 (1998)

Reunion:
  AM 2, FM 55, shortwave 0 (1998)

Romania:
  AM 40, FM 202, shortwave 3 (1998)

Russia:
  AM 420, FM 447, shortwave 56 (1998)

Rwanda:
  AM 0, FM 3, shortwave 1 (1998)

Saint Helena:
  AM 1, FM 0, shortwave 0 (1998)

Saint Kitts and Nevis:
  AM 3, FM 1, shortwave 0 (1998)

Saint Lucia:
  AM 2, FM 7 (plus 3 repeaters), shortwave 0 (1998)

Saint Pierre and Miquelon:
  AM 1, FM 4, shortwave 0 (1998)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:
  AM 1, FM 3, shortwave 0 (1998)

Samoa:
  AM 1, FM 3, shortwave 0 (1998)

San Marino:
  AM 0, FM 3, shortwave 0 (1998)

Sao Tome and Principe:
  AM 2, FM 4, shortwave 0 (1998)

Saudi Arabia:
  AM 43, FM 31, shortwave 2 (1998)

Senegal:
  AM 10, FM 14, shortwave 0 (1998)

Seychelles:
  AM 1, FM 2, shortwave 2 (1998)

Sierra Leone:
  AM 1, FM 9, shortwave 1 (1999)

Singapore:
  AM 0, FM 16, shortwave 2 (1998)

Slovakia:
  AM 15, FM 78, shortwave 2 (1998)

Slovenia:
  AM 17, FM 160, shortwave 0 (1998)

Solomon Islands:
  AM 3, FM 0, shortwave 0 (1998)

Somalia:
  AM 0, FM 0, shortwave 4 (1988)

South Africa:
  AM 14, FM 347 (plus 243 repeaters), shortwave 1 (1998)

South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands:
  none

Spain:
  AM 208, FM 715, shortwave 1 (1998)

Sri Lanka:
  AM 26, FM 45, shortwave 1 (1998)

Sudan:
  AM 12, FM 1, shortwave 1 (1998)

Suriname:
  AM 4, FM 13, shortwave 1 (1998)

Svalbard:
  AM 1, FM 1 (plus 2 repeaters), shortwave 0 (1998)

Swaziland:
  AM 7, FM 6 (2000)

Sweden:
  AM 1, FM 265, shortwave 1 (1998)

Switzerland:
  AM 4, FM 113 (plus many low power stations), shortwave
  2 (1998)

Syria:
  AM 14, FM 2, shortwave 1 (1998)

Tajikistan:
  AM 9, FM 6, shortwave 5 (1998)

Tanzania:
  AM 12, FM 11, shortwave 2 (1998)

Thailand:
  AM 204, FM 334, shortwave 6 (1999)

Togo:
  AM 2, FM 9, shortwave 4 (1998)

Tokelau:
  AM NA, FM NA, shortwave NA

  note:  each atoll has a radio broadcast station of unknown type that
  broadcasts shipping and weather reports (1998)

Tonga:
  AM 1, FM 2, shortwave 1 (2001)

Trinidad and Tobago:
  AM 2, FM 12, shortwave 0 (1998)

Tunisia:
  AM 7, FM 20, shortwave 2 (1998)

Turkey:
  AM 16, FM 72, shortwave 6 (1998)

Turkmenistan:
  AM 16, FM 8, shortwave 2 (1998)

Turks and Caicos Islands:
  AM 3 (one inactive), FM 6, shortwave 0
  (1998)

Tuvalu:
  AM 1, FM 0, shortwave 0 (1998)

Uganda:
  AM 19, FM 4, shortwave 5 (1998)

Ukraine:
  AM 134, FM 289, shortwave 4 (1998)

United Arab Emirates:
  AM 13, FM 7, shortwave 2 (1998)

United Kingdom:
  AM 219, FM 431, shortwave 3 (1998)

United States:
  AM 4,762, FM 5,542, shortwave 18 (1998)

Uruguay:
  AM 94, FM 115, shortwave 14 (seven are inactive) (1998)

Uzbekistan:
  AM 20, FM 7, shortwave 10 (1998)

Vanuatu:
  AM 2, FM 2, shortwave 1 (1998)

Venezuela:
  AM 201, FM NA (20 in Caracas), shortwave 11 (1998)

Vietnam:
  AM 65, FM 7, shortwave 29 (1999)

Virgin Islands:
  AM 5, FM 11, shortwave 0 (1998)

Wake Island:
  AM 0, FM NA, shortwave NA

  note:  Armed Forces Radio/Television Service (AFRTS) radio service
  provided by satellite (1998)

Wallis and Futuna:
  AM 1, FM 0, shortwave 0 (2000)

West Bank:
  AM 1, FM 0, shortwave 0

  note:  the Palestinian Broadcasting Corporation broadcasts from an
  AM station in Ramallah on 675 kHz; numerous local, private stations
  are reported to be in operation (2000)

Western Sahara:
  AM 2, FM 0, shortwave 0 (1998)

World:
  AM NA, FM NA, shortwave NA

Yemen:
  AM 6, FM 1, shortwave 2 (1998)

Yugoslavia:
  AM 113, FM 194, shortwave 2 (1998)

Zambia:
  AM 19, FM 5, shortwave 4 (1998)

Zimbabwe:
  AM 7, FM 20 (plus 17 repeater stations), shortwave 1 (1998)

Taiwan:
  AM 218, FM 333, shortwave 50 (1999)

======================================================================

@Radios



Afghanistan:
  167,000 (1999)

Albania:
  810,000 (1997)

Algeria:
  7.1 million (1997)

American Samoa:
  57,000 (1997)

Andorra:
  16,000 (1997)

Angola:
  630,000 (1997)

Anguilla:
  3,000 (1997)

Antarctica:
  NA

Antigua and Barbuda:
  36,000 (1997)

Argentina:
  24.3 million (1997)

Armenia:
  850,000 (1997)

Aruba:
  50,000 (1997)

Australia:
  25.5 million (1997)

Austria:
  6.08 million (1997)

Azerbaijan:
  175,000 (1997)

Bahamas, The:
  215,000 (1997)

Bahrain:
  338,000 (1997)

Bangladesh:
  6.15 million (1997)

Barbados:
  237,000 (1997)

Belarus:
  3.02 million (1997)

Belgium:
  8.075 million (1997)

Belize:
  133,000 (1997)

Benin:
  620,000 (1997)

Bermuda:
  82,000 (1997)

Bhutan:
  37,000 (1997)

Bolivia:
  5.25 million (1997)

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  940,000 (1997)

Botswana:
  237,000 (1997)

Brazil:
  71 million (1997)

British Indian Ocean Territory:
  NA

British Virgin Islands:
  9,000 (1997)

Brunei:
  329,000 (1998)

Bulgaria:
  4.51 million (1997)

Burkina Faso:
  370,000 (1997)

Burma:
  4.2 million (1997)

Burundi:
  440,000 (1997)

Cambodia:
  1.34 million (1997)

Cameroon:
  2.27 million (1997)

Canada:
  32.3 million (1997)

Cape Verde:
  73,000 (1997)

Cayman Islands:
  36,000 (1997)

Central African Republic:
  283,000 (1997)

Chad:
  1.67 million (1997)

Chile:
  5.18 million (1997)

China:
  417 million (1997)

Christmas Island:
  1,000 (1997)

Cocos (Keeling) Islands:
  300 (1992)

Colombia:
  21 million (1997)

Comoros:
  90,000 (1997)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  18.03 million (1997)

Congo, Republic of the:
  341,000 (1997)

Cook Islands:
  14,000 (1997)

Costa Rica:
  980,000 (1997)

Cote d'Ivoire:
  2.26 million (1997)

Croatia:
  1.51 million (1997)

Cuba:
  3.9 million (1997)

Cyprus:
  Greek Cypriot area: 310,000 (1997); Turkish Cypriot area:
  56,450 (1994)

Czech Republic:
  3,159,134 (December 2000)

Denmark:
  6.02 million (1997)

Djibouti:
  52,000 (1997)

Dominica:
  46,000 (1997)

Dominican Republic:
  1.44 million (1997)

Ecuador:
  4.15 million (1997)

Egypt:
  20.5 million (1997)

El Salvador:
  2.75 million (1997)

Equatorial Guinea:
  180,000 (1997)

Eritrea:
  345,000 (1997)

Estonia:
  1.01 million (1997)

Ethiopia:
  11.75 million (1997)

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas):
  1,000 (1997)

Faroe Islands:
  26,000 (1997)

Fiji:
  500,000 (1997)

Finland:
  7.7 million (1997)

France:
  55.3 million (1997)

French Guiana:
  104,000 (1997)

French Polynesia:
  128,000 (1997)

Gabon:
  208,000 (1997)

Gambia, The:
  196,000 (1997)

Gaza Strip:
  NA; note - most Palestinian households have radios (1999)

Georgia:
  3.02 million (1997)

Germany:
  77.8 million (1997)

Ghana:
  4.4 million (1997)

Gibraltar:
  37,000 (1997)

Greece:
  5.02 million (1997)

Greenland:
  30,000 (1998 est.)

Grenada:
  57,000 (1997)

Guadeloupe:
  113,000 (1997)

Guam:
  221,000 (1997)

Guatemala:
  835,000 (1997)

Guernsey:
  NA

Guinea:
  357,000 (1997)

Guinea-Bissau:
  49,000 (1997)

Guyana:
  420,000 (1997)

Haiti:
  415,000 (1997)

Holy See (Vatican City):
  NA

Honduras:
  2.45 million (1997)

Hong Kong:
  4.45 million (1997)

Hungary:
  7.01 million (1997)

Iceland:
  260,000 (1997)

India:
  116 million (1997)

Indonesia:
  31.5 million (1997)

Iran:
  17 million (1997)

Iraq:
  4.85 million (1997)

Ireland:
  2.55 million (1997)

Israel:
  3.07 million (1997)

Italy:
  50.5 million (1997)

Jamaica:
  1.215 million (1997)

Japan:
  120.5 million (1997)

Jersey:
  NA

Jordan:
  1.66 million (1997)

Kazakhstan:
  6.47 million (1997)

Kenya:
  3.07 million (1997)

Kiribati:
  17,000 (1997)

Korea, North:
  3.36 million (1997)

Korea, South:
  47.5 million (1997)

Kuwait:
  1.175 million (1997)

Kyrgyzstan:
  520,000 (1997)

Laos:
  730,000 (1997)

Latvia:
  1.76 million (1997)

Lebanon:
  2.85 million (1997)

Lesotho:
  104,000 (1997)

Liberia:
  790,000 (1997)

Libya:
  1.35 million (1997)

Liechtenstein:
  21,000 (1997)

Lithuania:
  1.9 million (1997)

Luxembourg:
  285,000 (1997)

Macau:
  160,000 (1997)

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  410,000 (1997)

Madagascar:
  3.05 million (1997)

Malawi:
  2.6 million (1997)

Malaysia:
  10.9 million (1999)

Maldives:
  35,000 (1999)

Mali:
  570,000 (1997)

Malta:
  255,000 (1997)

Man, Isle of:
  NA

Marshall Islands:
  NA

Martinique:
  82,000 (1997)

Mauritania:
  360,000 (1997)

Mauritius:
  420,000 (1997)

Mayotte:
  NA

Mexico:
  31 million (1997)

Micronesia, Federated States of:
  NA

Moldova:
  3.22 million (1997)

Monaco:
  34,000 (1997)

Mongolia:
  155,900 (1999)

Montserrat:
  7,000 (1997)

Morocco:
  6.64 million (1997)

Mozambique:
  730,000 (1997)

Namibia:
  232,000 (1997)

Nauru:
  7,000 (1997)

Nepal:
  840,000 (1997)

Netherlands:
  15.3 million (1996)

Netherlands Antilles:
  217,000 (1997)

New Caledonia:
  107,000 (1997)

New Zealand:
  3.75 million (1997)

Nicaragua:
  1.24 million (1997)

Niger:
  680,000 (1997)

Nigeria:
  23.5 million (1997)

Niue:
  1,000 (1997)

Norfolk Island:
  2,500 (1996)

Northern Mariana Islands:
  NA

Norway:
  4.03 million (1997)

Oman:
  1.4 million (1997)

Pakistan:
  13.5 million (1997)

Palau:
  12,000 (1997)

Panama:
  815,000 (1997)

Papua New Guinea:
  410,000 (1997)

Paraguay:
  925,000 (1997)

Peru:
  6.65 million (1997)

Philippines:
  11.5 million (1997)

Pitcairn Islands:
  NA

Poland:
  20.2 million (1997)

Portugal:
  3.02 million (1997)

Puerto Rico:
  2.7 million (1997)

Qatar:
  256,000 (1997)

Reunion:
  173,000 (1997)

Romania:
  7.2 million (1997)

Russia:
  61.5 million (1997)

Rwanda:
  601,000 (1997)

Saint Helena:
  3,000 (1997)

Saint Kitts and Nevis:
  28,000 (1997)

Saint Lucia:
  111,000 (1997)

Saint Pierre and Miquelon:
  4,000 (1997)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:
  77,000 (1997)

Samoa:
  178,000 (1997)

San Marino:
  16,000 (1997)

Sao Tome and Principe:
  38,000 (1997)

Saudi Arabia:
  6.25 million (1997)

Senegal:
  1.24 million (1997)

Seychelles:
  42,000 (1997)

Sierra Leone:
  1.12 million (1997)

Singapore:
  2.6 million (2000)

Slovakia:
  3.12 million (1997)

Slovenia:
  805,000 (1997)

Solomon Islands:
  57,000 (1997)

Somalia:
  470,000 (1997)

South Africa:
  13.75 million (1997)

Spain:
  13.1 million (1997)

Sri Lanka:
  3.85 million (1997)

Sudan:
  7.55 million (1997)

Suriname:
  300,000 (1997)

Svalbard:
  NA

Swaziland:
  155,000 (1997)

Sweden:
  8.25 million (1997)

Switzerland:
  7.1 million (1997)

Syria:
  4.15 million (1997)

Tajikistan:
  1.291 million (1991)

Tanzania:
  8.8 million (1997)

Thailand:
  13.96 million (1997)

Togo:
  940,000 (1997)

Tokelau:
  1,000 (1997)

Tonga:
  61,000 (1997)

Trinidad and Tobago:
  680,000 (1997)

Tunisia:
  2.06 million (1997)

Turkey:
  11.3 million (1997)

Turkmenistan:
  1.225 million (1997)

Turks and Caicos Islands:
  8,000 (1997)

Tuvalu:
  4,000 (1997)

Uganda:
  2.6 million (1997)

Ukraine:
  45.05 million (1997)

United Arab Emirates:
  820,000 (1997)

United Kingdom:
  84.5 million (1997)

United States:
  575 million (1997)

Uruguay:
  1.97 million (1997)

Uzbekistan:
  10.8 million (1997)

Vanuatu:
  62,000 (1997)

Venezuela:
  10.75 million (1997)

Vietnam:
  8.2 million (1997)

Virgin Islands:
  107,000 (1997)

Wallis and Futuna:
  NA

West Bank:
  NA; note - most Palestinian households have radios (1999)

Western Sahara:
  56,000 (1997)

World:
  NA

Yemen:
  1.05 million (1997)

Yugoslavia:
  3.15 million (1997)

Zambia:
  1.03 million (1997)

Zimbabwe:
  1.14 million (1997)

Taiwan:
  16 million (1994)

======================================================================

@Railways



Afghanistan:
  total:  24.6 km

  broad gauge:  9.6 km 1.524-m gauge from Gushgy (Turkmenistan) to
  Towraghondi; 15 km 1.524-m gauge from Termiz (Uzbekistan) to
  Kheyrabad transshipment point on south bank of Amu Darya

Albania:
  total:  447 km

  standard gauge:  447 km 1.435-m gauge (2001)

Algeria:
  total:  4,820 km

  standard gauge:  3,664 km 1.435-m gauge (301 km electrified; 215 km
  double track)

  narrow gauge:  1,156 km 1.055-m gauge (1996)

American Samoa:
  0 km

Andorra:
  0 km

Angola:
  total:  2,771 km (inland, much of the track is unusable
  because of land mines still in place from the civil war)

  narrow gauge:  2,648 km 1.067-m gauge; 123 km 0.600-m gauge (2000)

Anguilla:
  0 km

Antigua and Barbuda:
  total:  77 km

  narrow gauge:  64 km 0.760-m gauge; 13 km 0.610-m gauge (used almost
  exclusively for handling sugarcane)

Argentina:
  total:  33,744 km (167 km electrified)

  broad gauge:  20,594 km 1.676-m gauge (141 km electrified)

  standard gauge:  2,739 km 1.435-m gauge (26 km electrified)

  narrow gauge:  10,154 km 1.000-m gauge; 257 km 0.750-m gauge (2000)

Armenia:
  total:  852 km in common carrier service; does not include
  industrial lines

  broad gauge:  852 km 1.520-m gauge (779 km electrified) (2001)

Aruba:
  0 km

Australia:
  total:  33,819 km (2,540 km electrified)

  broad gauge:  3,719 km 1.600-m gauge

  standard gauge:  15,422 km 1.435-m gauge

  narrow gauge:  14,506 km 1.067-m gauge

  dual gauge:  172 km NA gauges (1999)

Austria:
  total:  6,095.2 km (3,643.3 km electrified)

  standard gauge:  5,564.2 km 1.435-m gauge (3,521.2 km electrified)

  narrow gauge:  497.1 km (33.9 km 1.000-m gauge - 28.1 km
  electrified, 497.1 km 0.760-m gauge - 94 km electrified) (2001)

Azerbaijan:
  total:  2,125 km in common carrier service; does not
  include industrial lines

  broad gauge:  2,125 km 1.520-m gauge (1,278 km electrified) (1993)

Bahamas, The:
  0 km

Bahrain:
  0 km

Bangladesh:
  total:  2,745 km

  broad gauge:  923 km 1.676-m gauge

  narrow gauge:  1,822 km 1.000-m gauge (2000)

Barbados:
  0 km

Belarus:
  total:  5,523 km

  broad gauge:  5,523 km 1.520-m gauge (875 km electrified) (2000)

Belgium:
  total:  3,437 km (2,446 km electrified; 2,563 km double
  track)

  standard gauge:  3,437 km 1.435-m gauge (1998)

Belize:
  0 km

Benin:
  total:  578 km (single track)

  narrow gauge:  578 km 1.000-m gauge (2000)

Bermuda:
  0 km

Bhutan:
  0 km

Bolivia:
  total:  3,691 km (single track)

  narrow gauge:  3,652 km 1.000-m gauge; 39 km 0.760-m gauge (13 km
  electrified) (1995)

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  total:  1,021 km (electrified 795 km;
  operating as diesel or steam until grids are repaired)

  standard gauge:  1,021 km 1.435-m gauge; note - many segments still
  need repair and/or reconstruction (2000)

Botswana:
  total:  888 km

  narrow gauge:  888 km 1.067-m gauge (2000)

Brazil:
  total:  30,539 km (2,129 km electrified); note - excludes
  urban rail

  broad gauge:  5,679 km 1.600-m gauge (1199 km electrified)

  standard gauge:  194 km 1.440-m gauge

  narrow gauge:  24,666 km 1.000-m gauge (930 km electrified)

  dual gauge:  336 km 1.000-m and 1.600-m gauges (three rails) (1999
  est.)

British Virgin Islands:
  0 km

Brunei:
  total:  13 km (private line)

  narrow gauge:  13 km 0.610-m gauge

Bulgaria:
  total:  4,294 km

  standard gauge:  4,049 km 1.435-m gauge (2,710 km electrified; 917
  km double track)

  narrow gauge:  245 km 0.760-m gauge (1998)

Burkina Faso:
  total:  622 km (517 km from Ouagadougou to the Cote
  d'Ivoire border and 105 km from Ouagadougou to Kaya)

  narrow gauge:  622 km 1.000-m gauge (1995 est.)

Burma:
  total:  3,991 km

  narrow gauge:  3,991 km 1.000-m gauge

Burundi:
  0 km

Cambodia:
  total:  603 km

  narrow gauge:  603 km 1.000-m gauge

Cameroon:
  total:  1,104 km

  narrow gauge:  1,104 km 1.000-m gauge (1995 est.)

Canada:
  total:  36,114 km; note - there are two major
  transcontinental freight railway systems: Canadian National
  (privatized November 1995) and Canadian Pacific Railway; passenger
  service provided by government-operated firm VIA, which has no
  trackage of its own

  standard gauge:  36,114 km 1.435-m gauge (156 km electrified) (1998)

Cape Verde:
  0 km

Cayman Islands:
  0 km

Central African Republic:
  0 km

Chad:
  0 km

Chile:
  total:  6,701 km

  broad gauge:  2,831 km 1.676-m gauge (1317 km electrified)

  narrow gauge:  117 km 1.067-m gauge (28 km electrified); 3,754 km
  1.000-m gauge (37 km electrified) (2000)

China:
  total:  67,524 km (including 5,400 km of provincial "local"
  rails)

  standard gauge:  63,924 km 1.435-m gauge (13,362 km electrified;
  20,250 km double track)

  narrow gauge:  3,600 km 0.750-m and 1.000-m gauge local industrial
  lines (1998 est.)

  note:  a new total of 68,000 km was estimated for early 1999 to take
  new construction programs into account (1999)

Christmas Island:
  24 km to serve phosphate mines

Cocos (Keeling) Islands:
  0 km

Colombia:
  total:  3,304 km

  standard gauge:  150 km 1.435-m gauge (connects Cerrejon coal mines
  to maritime port at Bahia de Portete)

  narrow gauge:  3,154 km 0.914-m gauge (major sections not in use)
  (2000)

Comoros:
  0 km

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  total:  5,138 km (1995)

  note:  severely reduced route-distance in use because of damage to
  facilities by civil strife

  narrow gauge:  3,987 km 1.067-m gauge (858 km electrified); 125 km
  1.000-m gauge; 1,026 km 0.600-m gauge (2000)

Congo, Republic of the:
  total:  894 km

  narrow gauge:  894 km 1.067-m gauge (2000)

Cook Islands:
  0 km

Costa Rica:
  total:  950 km

  narrow gauge:  950 km 1.067-m gauge (260 km electrified) (2000)

Cote d'Ivoire:
  total:  660 km

  narrow gauge:  660 km 1.000-meter gauge; 25 km double track

  note:  an additional 600 km of this railroad extends into Burkina
  Faso, ending at Kaya, north of Ouagadougou (2000)

Croatia:
  total:  2,296 km

  standard gauge:  2,296 km 1.435-m gauge (983 km electrified) (2000)

Cuba:
  total:  11,969 km

  standard gauge:  4,807 km 1.435-m gauge (147 km electrified)

  note:  in addition to the 4,807 km of standard gauge track in public
  use, 7,162 km of track is in private use by sugar plantations; about
  90% of the private use track is standard gauge and the rest is
  narrow gauge (2000)

Cyprus:
  0 km

Czech Republic:
  total:  9,444 km

  standard gauge:  9,350 km 1.435-m standard gauge (2,843 km
  electrified; 1,929 km double track)

  narrow gauge:  94 km 0.760-m narrow gauge (2000)

Denmark:
  total:  2,859 km (508 km privately owned and operated)

  standard gauge:  2,859 km 1.435-m gauge (600 km electrified; 760 km
  double track) (1998)

Djibouti:
  total:  100 km (Djibouti segment of the Addis
  Ababa-Djibouti railroad)

  narrow gauge:  100 km 1.000-m gauge

  note:  Djibouti and Ethiopia plan to revitalize the century-old
  railroad that links their capitals by 2003

Dominica:
  0 km

Dominican Republic:
  total:  757 km

  standard gauge:  375 km 1.435-m gauge (Central Romana Railroad)

  narrow gauge:  142 km 0.762-m gauge (Dominican Republic Government
  Railway)

  note:  240 km operated by sugar companies in various gauges
  (0.558-m, 0.762-m, 1.067-m gauges) (2000)

Ecuador:
  total:  965 km

  narrow gauge:  965 km 1.067-m gauge (2000)

Egypt:
  total:  4,955 km

  standard gauge:  4,955 km 1,435-m gauge (42 km electrified; 1,560 km
  double track) (2000)

El Salvador:
  total:  562 km

  narrow gauge:  562 km 0.914-m gauge

  note:  length of route which is operational is reduced to 283 km by
  disuse and lack of maintainance (2001)

Equatorial Guinea:
  total:  0 km

Eritrea:
  total:  317 km

  narrow gauge:  317 km 0.950-m gauge (1999)

  note:  links Ak'ordat and Asmara with the port of Massawa;
  nonoperational since 1978 except for about a 5 km stretch that was
  reopened in Massawa in 1994; rehabilitation of the remainder and of
  the rolling stock is under way

Estonia:
  total:  1,018 km common carrier lines only; does not
  include dedicated industrial lines

  broad gauge:  1,018 km 1.520-m gauge (132 km electrified) (1995)

Ethiopia:
  total:  681 km (Ethiopian segment of the Addis
  Ababa-Djibouti railroad)

  narrow gauge:  681 km 1.000-m gauge

  note:  in April 1998, Djibouti and Ethiopia announced plans to
  revitalize the century-old railroad that links their capitals; since
  May 1998 Ethiopia has expended considerable effort to repair and
  maintain the lines

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas):
  0 km

Faroe Islands:
  0 km

Fiji:
  total:  597 km; note - belongs to the government-owned Fiji
  Sugar Corporation

  narrow gauge:  597 km 0.610-m gauge (1995)

Finland:
  total:  5,865 km

  broad gauge:  5,865 km 1.524-m gauge (2,192 km electrified; 480 km
  double or multiple track) (1998)

France:
  total:  31,939 km (31,939 km are operated by French National
  Railways (SNCF); 14,176 km of SNCF routes are electrified and 12,132
  km are double- or multiple-tracked)

  standard gauge:  31,840 km 1.435-m gauge

  narrow gauge:  99 km 1.000-m gauge (1998)

French Guiana:
  0 km (1995)

French Polynesia:
  0 km

Gabon:
  total:  649 km (Gabon State Railways or OCTRA)

  standard gauge:  649 km 1.435-m gauge; single track (1994)

Gambia, The:
  0 km

Gaza Strip:
  total:  NA km; note - one line, abandoned and in
  disrepair, little trackage remains

Georgia:
  total:  1,583 km in common carrier service; does not
  include industrial lines

  broad gauge:  1,583 km 1.520-m gauge (1993)

Germany:
  total:  40,826 km including at least 14,253 km electrified
  and 14,768 km double- or multiple-tracked (1998)

  note:  since privatization in 1994, Deutsche Bahn AG (DBAG) no
  longer publishes details of the tracks it owns; in addition to the
  DBAG system there are 102 privately owned railway companies which
  own an approximate 3,000 km to 4,000 km of the total tracks

Ghana:
  total:  953 km (undergoing major rehabilitation)

  narrow gauge:  953 km 1.067-m gauge (32 km double track) (1997 est.)

Gibraltar:
  total:  NA km; 1.000-m gauge system in dockyard area only

Greece:
  total:  2,548 km

  standard gauge:  1,565 km 1.435-m gauge (36 km electrified; 23 km
  double track)

  narrow gauge:  961 km 1.000-m gauge; 22 km 0.750-m gauge (a
  rack-type railway for steep grades)

Greenland:
  0 km

Grenada:
  0 km

Guadeloupe:
  total:  NA km; privately owned, narrow-gauge plantation
  lines

Guam:
  0 km

Guatemala:
  total:  884 km (102 km privately owned)

  narrow gauge:  884 km 0.914-m gauge (single track)

Guernsey:
  0 km

Guinea:
  total:  1,086 km

  standard gauge:  279 km 1.435-m gauge

  narrow gauge:  807 km 1.000-m gauge (includes 662 km in common
  carrier service from Kankan to Conakry)

Guinea-Bissau:
  0 km

Guyana:
  total:  187 km (all dedicated to ore transport)

  standard gauge:  139 km 1.435-m gauge

  narrow gauge:  48 km 0.914-m gauge

Haiti:
  total:  40 km (single track; privately owned industrial line)
  - closed in early 1990s

  narrow gauge:  40 km 0.760-m gauge

Holy See (Vatican City):
  total:  862 m; note - a spur of the Italian
  Railways system, serving Rome's Saint Peter's station

  standard gauge:  862 m 1.435-m gauge (1999)

Honduras:
  total:  595 km

  narrow gauge:  349 km 1.067-m gauge; 246 km 0.914-m gauge (1999)

Hong Kong:
  total:  34 km

  standard gauge:  34 km 1.435-m gauge (all electrified) (1996 est.)

Hungary:
  total:  7,606 km

  broad gauge:  36 km 1.524-m gauge

  standard gauge:  7,394 km 1.435-m gauge (2,270 km electrified; 1,236
  km double track)

  narrow gauge:  176 km 0.760-m gauge (1998)

  note:  Hungary and Austria jointly manage the cross-border
  standard-gauge railway connecting Gyor, Sopron, and Ebenfurt (Gysev
  railroad) a distance of about 101 km in Hungary and 65 km in Austria

Iceland:
  0 km

India:
  total:  62,915 km (12,307 km electrified; 12,617 km double
  track)

  broad gauge:  40,620 km 1.676-m gauge

  narrow gauge:  18,501 km 1.000-m gauge; 3,794 km 0.762-m and 0.610-m
  gauge (1998 est.)

Indonesia:
  total:  6,458 km

  narrow gauge:  5,961 km 1.067-m gauge (101 km electrified; 101 km
  double track); 497 km 0.750-m gauge (1995)

Iran:
  total:  5,600 km

  broad gauge:  94 km 1.676-m gauge

  standard gauge:  5,506 km 1.435-m gauge (146 km electrified)

  note:  broad gauge track is employed at the borders with Azerbaijan
  and Turkmenistan which have broad-gauge rail systems (2001)

Iraq:
  total:  2,032 km

  standard gauge:  2,032 km 1.435-m gauge

  note:  rail link between Iraq and Syria restored in 2000 after 19
  years

Ireland:
  total:  1,947 km

  broad gauge:  1,947 km 1.600-m gauge (38 km electrified; 485 km
  double track) (1998)

Israel:
  total:  610 km

  standard gauge:  610 km 1.435-m gauge (1996)

Italy:
  total:  19,394 km

  standard gauge:  18,071 km 1.435-m gauge; Italian Railways (FS)
  operates 16,014 km of the total standard gauge routes (11,322 km
  electrified)

  narrow gauge:  112 km 1.000-m gauge (112 km electrified); 1,211 km
  0.950-m gauge (153 km electrified) (1998)

Jamaica:
  total:  370 km

  standard gauge:  370 km 1.435-m gauge; note - 207 km belong to the
  Jamaica Railway Corporation in common carrier service, but are no
  longer operational; the remaining track is privately owned and used
  to transport bauxite

Japan:
  total:  23,670.7 km

  standard gauge:  2,893.1 km 1.435-m gauge (entirely electrified)

  narrow gauge:  89.8 km 1.372-m gauge (89.8 km electrified); 20,656.8
  km 1.067-m gauge (10,383.6 km electrified); 31 km 0.762-m gauge (3.6
  km electrified) (1994)

Jersey:
  0 km

Jordan:
  total:  677 km

  narrow gauge:  677 km 1.050-m gauge (2000)

Juan de Nova Island:
  total:  NA km; short line going to a jetty

Kazakhstan:
  total:  14,400 km in common carrier service; does not
  include industrial lines

  broad gauge:  14,400 km 1.520-m gauge (3,299 km electrified) (1997)

Kenya:
  total:  2,778 km

  narrow gauge:  2,778 km 1.000-m gauge

  note:  the line connecting Nairobi with the port of Mombasa is the
  most important in the country

Kiribati:
  0 km

Korea, North:
  total:  5,000 km

  standard gauge:  4,095 km 1.435-m gauge (3,500 km electrified; 159
  km double track)

  narrow gauge:  665 km 0.762-m gauge

  dual gauge:  240 km 1.435-m and 1.600-m gauges (four rails
  interlaced) (1996 est.)

Korea, South:
  total:  6,240 km

  standard gauge:  6,240 km 1.435-m gauge (525 km electrified) (1998
  est.)

Kuwait:
  0 km

Kyrgyzstan:
  total:  370 km in common carrier service; does not
  include industrial lines

  broad gauge:  370 km 1.520-m gauge (1990)

Laos:
  0 km

Latvia:
  total:  2,412 km

  broad gauge:  2,379 km 1.520-m gauge (271 km electrified) (1992)

  narrow gauge:  33 km 0.750-m gauge (1994)

Lebanon:
  total:  399 km (mostly unusable because of damage in civil
  war)

  standard gauge:  317 km 1.435-m

  narrow gauge:  82 km (1999)

Lesotho:
  total:  2.6 km; note - owned by, operated by, and included
  in the statistics of South Africa

  narrow gauge:  2.6 km 1.067-m gauge (1995)

Liberia:
  total:  490 km (328 km single track); note - three rail
  systems owned and operated by foreign steel and financial interests
  in conjunction with the Liberian Government; one of these, the Lamco
  Railroad, closed in 1989 after iron ore production ceased; the other
  two were shut down by the civil war; large sections of the rail
  lines have been dismantled; approximately 60 km of railroad track
  was exported for scrap

  standard gauge:  345 km 1.435-m gauge

  narrow gauge:  145 km 1.067-m gauge

Libya:
  note:  Libya has had no railroad in operation since 1965, all
  previous systems having been dismantled; current plans are to
  construct a 1.435-m standard gauge line from the Tunisian frontier
  to Tripoli and Misratah, then inland to Sabha, center of a
  mineral-rich area, but there has been little progress; other plans
  made jointly with Egypt would establish a rail line from As Sallum,
  Egypt, to Tobruk with completion originally set for mid-1994; Libya
  signed contracts with two private companies - Bahne of Egypt and Jez
  Sistemas Ferroviarios of Spain - in 1998 for the supply of crossings
  and pointwork (1001)

Liechtenstein:
  total:  18.5 km; note - owned, operated, and included
  in statistics of Austrian Federal Railways

  standard gauge:  18.5 km 1.435-m gauge (electrified)

Lithuania:
  total:  2,002 km

  broad gauge:  2,002 km 1.524-m gauge (122 km electrified) (1994)

Luxembourg:
  total:  274 km

  standard gauge:  274 km 1.435-m gauge (242 km electrified; 178 km
  double track) (1998)

Macau:
  0 km

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  total:  699 km

  standard gauge:  699 km 1.435-m gauge (233 km electrified)

  note:  a 56-km extension of the Kumanovo-Beljakovci line to the
  Bulgarian border at Gyveshevo is under construction (2001)

Madagascar:
  total:  883 km

  narrow gauge:  883 km 1.000-m gauge (1994)

Malawi:
  total:  789 km

  narrow gauge:  789 km 1.067-m gauge

Malaysia:
  total:  1,801 km

  narrow gauge:  1,801 km 1.000-m gauge (148 km electrified) (2000)

Maldives:
  0 km

Mali:
  total:  729 km (linked to Senegal's rail system through Kayes)

  narrow gauge:  729 km 1.000-m gauge

Malta:
  0 km

Man, Isle of:
  total:  68.5 km (43.5 km electrified)

Marshall Islands:
  0 km

Martinique:
  0 km

Mauritania:
  total:  750 km (single track); note - owned and operated
  by government mining company

  standard gauge:  750 km 1.435-m gauge (1995)

Mauritius:
  0 km

Mayotte:
  0 km

Mexico:
  total:  31,048 km

  standard gauge:  30,958 km 1.435-m gauge (246 km electrified)

  narrow gauge:  90 km 0.914-m gauge (1998 est.)

Micronesia, Federated States of:
  0 km

Moldova:
  total:  1,328 km

  broad gauge:  1,328 km 1.520-m gauge (1992)

Monaco:
  total:  1.7 km

  standard gauge:  1.7 km 1.435-m gauge

Mongolia:
  1,815 km

  broad gauge:  1,815 km 1.524-m gauge (2001)

Montserrat:
  0 km

Morocco:
  total:  1,907 km

  standard gauge:  1,907 km 1.435-m gauge (1,003 km electrified; 540
  km double track)

Mozambique:
  total:  3,131 km

  narrow gauge:  2,988 km 1.067-m gauge; 143 km 0.762-m gauge (1994)

Namibia:
  total:  2,382 km

  narrow gauge:  2,382 km 1.067-m gauge; single track (1995)

Nauru:
  total:  5 km; note - used to haul phosphates from the center
  of the island to processing facilities on the southwest coast

Nepal:
  total:  59 km; note - all in Kosi close to Indian border

  narrow gauge:  59 km 0.762-m gauge (2000)

Netherlands:
  total:  2,739 km

  standard gauge:  2,739 km 1.435-m gauge; (1,991 km electrified)
  (1998)

Netherlands Antilles:
  0 km

New Caledonia:
  0 km

New Zealand:
  total:  3,913 km

  narrow gauge:  3,913 km 1.067-m gauge (519 km electrified) (1999)

Niger:
  0 km

Nigeria:
  total:  3,557 km

  narrow gauge:  3,505 km 1.067-m gauge

  standard gauge:  52 km 1.435-m gauge

  note:  years of neglect of both the rolling stock and the
  right-of-way have seriously reduced the capacity and utility of the
  system; a project to restore Nigeria's railways is now underway

Niue:
  0 km

Norfolk Island:
  0 km

Northern Mariana Islands:
  0 km

Norway:
  total:  4,012 km

  standard gauge:  4,012 km 1.435-m gauge (2,530 km electrified; 96 km
  double track) (1998)

Oman:
  0 km

Pakistan:
  total:  8,163 km

  broad gauge:  7,718 km 1.676-m gauge (293 km electrified; 1,037 km
  double track)

  narrow gauge:  445 km 1.000-m gauge (1996 est.) (2000)

Palau:
  0 km

Panama:
  total:  355 km

  broad gauge:  76 km 1.524-m gauge

  narrow gauge:  279 km 0.914-m gauge

Papua New Guinea:
  0 km

Paraguay:
  total:  971 km

  standard gauge:  441 km 1.435-m gauge

  narrow gauge:  60 km 1.000-m gauge

  note:  there are 470 km of various gauges that are privately owned

Peru:
  total:  1,988 km

  standard gauge:  1,608 km 1.435-m gauge

  narrow gauge:  380 km 0.914-m gauge

Philippines:
  total:  492 km (an additional 405 km are not in
  operation)

  narrow gauge:  492 km 1.067-m gauge (1996)

Pitcairn Islands:
  0 km

Poland:
  total:  23,420 km

  broad gauge:  646 km 1.524-m gauge

  standard gauge:  21,639 km 1.435-m gauge (11,626 km electrified;
  8,978 km double track)

  narrow gauge:  1,135 km various gauges including 1.000-m, 0.785-m,
  0.750-m, and 0.600-m (1998)

Portugal:
  total:  2,850 km

  broad gauge:  2,576 km 1.668-m gauge (623 km electrified; 426 km
  double track)

  narrow gauge:  274 km 1.000-m gauge (1998)

Puerto Rico:
  total:  96 km

  narrow gauge:  96 km 1.000-m gauge, rural, narrow-gauge system for
  hauling sugarcane; no passenger service

Qatar:
  0 km

Reunion:
  0 km

Romania:
  total:  11,385 km (3,888 km electrified)

  standard gauge:  10,898 km

  narrow gauge:  487 km (1996)

Russia:
  total:  149,000 km

  note:  86,000 km are in common carrier service; 63,000 km serve
  specific industries and are not available for common carrier use;
  40,000 km of the railway in common carrier use are electrified

  broad gauge:  149,000 km 1.520-m gauge (1998)

Rwanda:
  0 km

Saint Helena:
  0 km

Saint Kitts and Nevis:
  total:  58 km

  narrow gauge:  58 km 0.762-m gauge on Saint Kitts to serve sugarcane
  plantations (1995)

Saint Lucia:
  0 km

Saint Pierre and Miquelon:
  0 km

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:
  0 km

Samoa:
  0 km

San Marino:
  0 km; note - there is a 1.5 km cable railway connecting
  the city of San Marino to Borgo Maggiore

Sao Tome and Principe:
  0 km

Saudi Arabia:
  total:  1,390 km

  standard gauge:  1,390 km 1.435-m gauge (448 km double track) (1992)

Senegal:
  total:  906 km

  narrow gauge:  906 km 1.000-meter gauge (70 km double track)

Seychelles:
  0 km

Sierra Leone:
  total:  84 km used on a limited basis because the mine
  at Marampa is closed

  narrow gauge:  84 km 1.067-m gauge

Singapore:
  total:  38.6 km

  narrow gauge:  38.6 km 1.000-m gauge

  note:  there is a 83 km mass transit system with 48 stations

Slovakia:
  total:  3,660 km

  broad gauge:  102 km 1.520-m gauge

  standard gauge:  3,507 km 1.435-m gauge (1,505 km electrified; 1,011
  km double track)

  narrow gauge:  51 km (46 km 1,000-m gauge; 5 km 0.750-m gauge) (1998)

Slovenia:
  total:  1,201 km

  standard gauge:  1,201 km 1.435-m gauge (489 km electrified) (1999)

Solomon Islands:
  0 km

Somalia:
  0 km

South Africa:
  total:  21,431 km

  narrow gauge:  20,995 km 1.067-m gauge (9,087 km electrified); 436
  km 0.610-m gauge (1995)

Spain:
  total:  13,950 km

  broad gauge:  12,781 km 1.668-m gauge (6,358 km electrified; 2,295
  km double track)

  standard gauge:  525 km 1.435-m gauge (525 km electrified)

  narrow gauge:  644 km 1.000-m gauge (438 km electrified) (1998)

Sri Lanka:
  total:  1,463 km

  broad gauge:  1,404 km 1.676-m gauge

  narrow gauge:  59 km 0.762-m gauge (1996)

Sudan:
  total:  5,311 km

  narrow gauge:  4,595 km 1.067-m gauge; 716 km 1.6096-m gauge
  plantation line

  note:  the main line linking Khartoum to Port Sudan carries over
  two-thirds of Sudan's rail traffic

Suriname:
  total:  166 km (single track)

  standard gauge:  80 km 1.435-m gauge

  narrow gauge:  86 km 1.000-m gauge

  note:  Suriname railroads are not in operation (2000)

Svalbard:
  0 km

Swaziland:
  total:  297 km; note - includes 71 km which are not in use

  narrow gauge:  297 km 1.067-m gauge

Sweden:
  total:  12,821 km (includes 3,594 km of privately owned
  railways)

  standard gauge:  12,821 km 1.435-m gauge (7,918 km electrified and
  1,152 km double track) (1998)

Switzerland:
  total:  4,492 km (1,564 km double track)

  standard gauge:  3,317 km 1.435-m gauge (3,288 km electrified)

  narrow gauge:  1,165 km 1.000-m gauge (1,165 km electrified); 10 km
  0.800-m gauge (1998)

Syria:
  total:  2,750 km

  standard gauge:  2,423 km 1.435-m gauge

  narrow gauge:  327 km 1.050-m gauge

  note:  rail link between Syria and Iraq replaced in 2000 (2000)

Tajikistan:
  total:  480 km in common carrier service; does not
  include industrial lines (1990)

Tanzania:
  total:  3,569 km (1995)

  narrow gauge:  2,600 km 1.000-m gauge; 969 km 1.067-m gauge

  note:  the Tanzania-Zambia Railway Authority (TAZARA), which
  operates 1,860 km of 1.067-m narrow gauge track between Dar es
  Salaam and Kapiri Mposhi in Zambia (of which 969 km are in Tanzania
  and 891 km are in Zambia) is not a part of Tanzania Railways
  Corporation; because of the difference in gauge, this system does
  not connect to Tanzania Railways

Thailand:
  total:  3,940 km

  narrow gauge:  3,940 km 1.000-m gauge (99 km double track)

Togo:
  total:  525 km (1995)

  narrow gauge:  525 km 1.000-m gauge

Tokelau:
  0 km

Tonga:
  0 km

Trinidad and Tobago:
  minimal agricultural railroad system near San
  Fernando; railway service was discontinued in 1968

Tunisia:
  total:  2,168 km

  standard gauge:  471 km 1.435-m gauge

  narrow gauge:  1,687 km 1.000-m gauge

  dual gauge:  10 km 1.000-m and 1.435-m gauges (three rails)

Turkey:
  total:  8,607 km

  standard gauge:  8,607 km 1.435-m gauge (1,524 km electrified) (1999)

Turkmenistan:
  total:  2,187 km

  broad gauge:  2,187 km 1.520-m gauge (1996 est.)

Turks and Caicos Islands:
  0 km

Tuvalu:
  0 km

Uganda:
  total:  1,241 km

  narrow gauge:  1,241 km 1.000-m gauge

  note:  a program to rehabilitate the railroad is underway (1995)

Ukraine:
  total:  23,350 km

  broad gauge:  23,350 km 1.524-m gauge (8,600 km electrified)

United Arab Emirates:
  0 km

United Kingdom:
  total:  16,878 km

  broad gauge:  342 km 1.600-m gauge (190 km double track); note - all
  1.600-m gauge track, of which 342 km is in common carrier use, and
  is in Northern Ireland

  standard gauge:  16,536 km 1.435-m gauge (4,928 km electrified;
  12,591 km double or multiple track) (1996)

United States:
  total:  225,750 km mainline routes

  standard gauge:  225,750 km 1.435-m gauge (1999)

Uruguay:
  total:  2,073 km

  standard gauge:  2,073 km 1.435-m gauge (2000)

Uzbekistan:
  total:  3,380 km in common carrier service; does not
  include industrial lines

  broad gauge:  3,380 km 1.520-m gauge (300 km electrified) (1993)

Vanuatu:
  0 km

Venezuela:
  total:  584 km (248 km privately owned)

  standard gauge:  584 km 1.435-m gauge

Vietnam:
  total:  2,652 km

  standard gauge:  166 km 1.435-m gauge

  narrow gauge:  2,249 km 1.000-m gauge

  dual gauge:  237 km NA-m gauges (three rails) (1998)

Virgin Islands:
  0 km

Wallis and Futuna:
  0 km

West Bank:
  0 km

Western Sahara:
  0 km

World:
  total:  1,201,337 km includes about 190,000 to 195,000 km of
  electrified routes of which 147,760 km are in Europe, 24,509 km in
  the Far East, 11,050 km in Africa, 4,223 km in South America, and
  4,160 km in North America; note - fastest speed in daily service is
  300 km/hr attained by France's Societe Nationale des Chemins-de-Fer
  Francais (SNCF) Le Train a Grande Vitesse (TGV) - Atlantique line

  broad gauge:  251,153 km

  standard gauge:  710,754 km

  narrow gauge:  239,430 km

Yemen:
  0 km

Yugoslavia:
  total:  4,095 km

  standard gauge:  4,095 km 1.435-m gauge (1,377 km partially
  electrified since 1992)

  note:  during to the 1999 Kosovo conflict, the Serbian rail system
  suffered significant damage due to bridge destruction; many rail
  bridges have been rebuilt, but the bridge over the Danube at Novi
  Sad was still down in early 2000; however, a by-pass is available;
  Montenegrin rail lines remain intact

Zambia:
  total:  2,164 km (1995)

  narrow gauge:  2,164 km 1.067-m gauge (13 km double track)

  note:  the total includes 891 km of the Tanzania-Zambia Railway
  Authority (TAZARA), which operates 1,860 km of 1.067-m narrow gauge
  track between Dar es Salaam and Kapiri Mposhi where it connects to
  the Zambia Railways system; TAZARA is not a part of the Zambia
  Railways system; Zambia Railways assets are scheduled for
  concessioning in 2001

Zimbabwe:
  total:  2,759 km (1995)

  narrow gauge:  2,759 km 1.067-m gauge (313 km electrified; 42 km
  double track) (1995 est.)

Taiwan:
  total:  4,600 km (519 km electrified)

  narrow gauge:  4,600 km 1.067-m

  note:  only 1,108 km of route length (including the electrified
  part) is used in common carrier service by the Taiwan Railway
  Administration; the remaining 3,492 km is dedicated to industrial
  use (1999)

======================================================================

@Religions



Afghanistan:
  Sunni Muslim 84%, Shi'a Muslim 15%, other 1%

Albania:
  Muslim 70%, Albanian Orthodox 20%, Roman Catholic 10%

  note:  all mosques and churches were closed in 1967 and religious
  observances prohibited; in November 1990, Albania began allowing
  private religious practice

Algeria:
  Sunni Muslim (state religion) 99%, Christian and Jewish 1%

American Samoa:
  Christian Congregationalist 50%, Roman Catholic 20%,
  Protestant and other 30%

Andorra:
  Roman Catholic (predominant)

Angola:
  indigenous beliefs 47%, Roman Catholic 38%, Protestant 15%
  (1998 est.)

Anguilla:
  Anglican 40%, Methodist 33%, Seventh-Day Adventist 7%,
  Baptist 5%, Roman Catholic 3%, other 12%

Antigua and Barbuda:
  Anglican (predominant), other Protestant, some
  Roman Catholic

Argentina:
  nominally Roman Catholic 92% (less than 20% practicing),
  Protestant 2%, Jewish 2%, other 4%

Armenia:
  Armenian Orthodox 94%

Aruba:
  Roman Catholic 82%, Protestant 8%, Hindu, Muslim, Confucian,
  Jewish

Australia:
  Anglican 26.1%, Roman Catholic 26%, other Christian
  24.3%, non-Christian 11%

Austria:
  Roman Catholic 78%, Protestant 5%, Muslim and other 17%

Azerbaijan:
  Muslim 93.4%, Russian Orthodox 2.5%, Armenian Orthodox
  2.3%, other 1.8% (1995 est.)

  note:  religious affiliation is still nominal in Azerbaijan;
  percentages for actual practicing adherents are much lower

Bahamas, The:
  Baptist 32%, Anglican 20%, Roman Catholic 19%,
  Methodist 6%, Church of God 6%, other Protestant 12%, none or
  unknown 3%, other 2%

Bahrain:
  Shi'a Muslim 70%, Sunni Muslim 30%

Bangladesh:
  Muslim 83%, Hindu 16%, other 1% (1998)

Barbados:
  Protestant 67% (Anglican 40%, Pentecostal 8%, Methodist
  7%, other 12%), Roman Catholic 4%, none 17%, other 12%

Belarus:
  Eastern Orthodox 80%, other (including Roman Catholic,
  Protestant, Jewish, and Muslim) 20% (1997 est.)

Belgium:
  Roman Catholic 75%, Protestant or other 25%

Belize:
  Roman Catholic 62%, Protestant 30% (Anglican 12%, Methodist
  6%, Mennonite 4%, Seventh-Day Adventist 3%, Pentecostal 2%,
  Jehovah's Witnesses 1%, other 2%), none 2%, other 6% (1980)

Benin:
  indigenous beliefs 50%, Christian 30%, Muslim 20%

Bermuda:
  non-Anglican Protestant 39%, Anglican 27%, Roman Catholic
  15%, other 19%

Bhutan:
  Lamaistic Buddhist 75%, Indian- and Nepalese-influenced
  Hinduism 25%

Bolivia:
  Roman Catholic 95%, Protestant (Evangelical Methodist)

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  Muslim 40%, Orthodox 31%, Roman Catholic
  15%, Protestant 4%, other 10%

Botswana:
  indigenous beliefs 50%, Christian 50%

Brazil:
  Roman Catholic (nominal) 80%

British Virgin Islands:
  Protestant 86% (Methodist 45%, Anglican 21%,
  Church of God 7%, Seventh-Day Adventist 5%, Baptist 4%, Jehovah's
  Witnesses 2%, other 2%), Roman Catholic 6%, none 2%, other 6% (1981)

Brunei:
  Muslim (official) 67%, Buddhist 13%, Christian 10%,
  indigenous beliefs and other 10%

Bulgaria:
  Bulgarian Orthodox 83.5%, Muslim 13%, Roman Catholic 1.5%,
  Uniate Catholic 0.2%, Jewish 0.8%, Protestant, Gregorian-Armenian,
  and other 1% (1998)

Burkina Faso:
  indigenous beliefs 40%, Muslim 50%, Christian (mainly
  Roman Catholic) 10%

Burma:
  Buddhist 89%, Christian 4% (Baptist 3%, Roman Catholic 1%),
  Muslim 4%, animist 1%, other 2%

Burundi:
  Christian 67% (Roman Catholic 62%, Protestant 5%),
  indigenous beliefs 23%, Muslim 10%

Cambodia:
  Theravada Buddhist 95%, other 5%

Cameroon:
  indigenous beliefs 40%, Christian 40%, Muslim 20%

Canada:
  Roman Catholic 42%, Protestant 40%, other 18%

Cape Verde:
  Roman Catholic (infused with indigenous beliefs);
  Protestant (mostly Church of the Nazarene)

Cayman Islands:
  United Church (Presbyterian and Congregational),
  Anglican, Baptist, Roman Catholic, Church of God, other Protestant

Central African Republic:
  indigenous beliefs 24%, Protestant 25%,
  Roman Catholic 25%, Muslim 15%, other 11%

  note:  animistic beliefs and practices strongly influence the
  Christian majority

Chad:
  Muslim 50%, Christian 25%, indigenous beliefs (mostly animism)
  25%

Chile:
  Roman Catholic 89%, Protestant 11%, Jewish NEGL%

China:
  Daoist (Taoist), Buddhist, Muslim 2%-3%, Christian 1% (est.)

  note:  officially atheist

Christmas Island:
  Buddhist 55%, Christian 15%, Muslim 10%, other 20%
  (1991)

Cocos (Keeling) Islands:
  Sunni Muslim 57%, Christian 22%, other 21%
  (1981 est.)

Colombia:
  Roman Catholic 90%

Comoros:
  Sunni Muslim 98%, Roman Catholic 2%

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  Roman Catholic 50%, Protestant
  20%, Kimbanguist 10%, Muslim 10%, other syncretic sects and
  indigenous beliefs 10%

Congo, Republic of the:
  Christian 50%, animist 48%, Muslim 2%

Cook Islands:
  Christian (majority of populace are members of the
  Cook Islands Christian Church)

Costa Rica:
  Roman Catholic 76.3%, Evangelical 13.7%, other
  Protestant 0.7%, Jehovah's Witnesses 1.3%, other 4.8%, none 3.2%

Cote d'Ivoire:
  Christian 34%, Muslim 27%, no religion 21%, animist
  15%, other 3% (1998)

  note:  the majority of foreigners (migratory workers) are Muslim
  (70%) and Christian (20%)

Croatia:
  Roman Catholic 76.5%, Orthodox 11.1%, Muslim 1.2%,
  Protestant 0.4%, others and unknown 10.8% (1991)

Cuba:
  nominally 85% Roman Catholic prior to CASTRO assuming power;
  Protestants, Jehovah's Witnesses, Jews, and Santeria are also
  represented

Cyprus:
  Greek Orthodox 78%, Muslim 18%, Maronite, Armenian
  Apostolic, and other 4%

Czech Republic:
  atheist 39.8%, Roman Catholic 39.2%, Protestant
  4.6%, Orthodox 3%, other 13.4%

Denmark:
  Evangelical Lutheran 95%, other Protestant and Roman
  Catholic 3%, Muslims 2%

Djibouti:
  Muslim 94%, Christian 6%

Dominica:
  Roman Catholic 77%, Protestant 15% (Methodist 5%,
  Pentecostal 3%, Seventh-Day Adventist 3%, Baptist 2%, other 2%),
  none 2%, other 6%

Dominican Republic:
  Roman Catholic 95%

Ecuador:
  Roman Catholic 95%

Egypt:
  Muslim (mostly Sunni) 94%, Coptic Christian and other 6%

El Salvador:
  Roman Catholic 86%

  note:  there is extensive activity by Protestant groups throughout
  the country; by the end of 1992, there were an estimated 1 million
  Protestant evangelicals in El Salvador

Equatorial Guinea:
  nominally Christian and predominantly Roman
  Catholic, pagan practices

Eritrea:
  Muslim, Coptic Christian, Roman Catholic, Protestant

Estonia:
  Evangelical Lutheran, Russian Orthodox, Estonian Orthodox,
  Baptist, Methodist, Seventh-Day Adventist, Roman Catholic,
  Pentecostal, Word of Life, Jewish

Ethiopia:
  Muslim 45%-50%, Ethiopian Orthodox 35%-40%, animist 12%,
  other 3%-8%

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas):
  primarily Anglican, Roman
  Catholic, United Free Church, Evangelist Church, Jehovah's
  Witnesses, Lutheran, Seventh-Day Adventist

Faroe Islands:
  Evangelical Lutheran

Fiji:
  Christian 52% (Methodist 37%, Roman Catholic 9%), Hindu 38%,
  Muslim 8%, other 2%

  note:  Fijians are mainly Christian, Indians are Hindu, and there is
  a Muslim minority (1986)

Finland:
  Evangelical Lutheran 89%, Greek Orthodox 1%, none 9%, other
  1%

France:
  Roman Catholic 90%, Protestant 2%, Jewish 1%, Muslim (North
  African workers) 3%, unaffiliated 4%

French Guiana:
  Roman Catholic

French Polynesia:
  Protestant 54%, Roman Catholic 30%, other 16%

Gabon:
  Christian 55%-75%, animist, Muslim less than 1%

Gambia, The:
  Muslim 90%, Christian 9%, indigenous beliefs 1%

Gaza Strip:
  Muslim (predominantly Sunni) 98.7%, Christian 0.7%,
  Jewish 0.6%

Georgia:
  Georgian Orthodox 65%, Muslim 11%, Russian Orthodox 10%,
  Armenian Apostolic 8%, unknown 6%

Germany:
  Protestant 38%, Roman Catholic 34%, Muslim 1.7%,
  unaffiliated or other 26.3%

Ghana:
  indigenous beliefs 38%, Muslim 30%, Christian 24%, other 8%

Gibraltar:
  Roman Catholic 76.9%, Church of England 6.9%, Muslim
  6.9%, Jewish 2.3%, none or other 7% (1991)

Greece:
  Greek Orthodox 98%, Muslim 1.3%, other 0.7%

Greenland:
  Evangelical Lutheran

Grenada:
  Roman Catholic 53%, Anglican 13.8%, other Protestant 33.2%

Guadeloupe:
  Roman Catholic 95%, Hindu and pagan African 4%,
  Protestant 1%

Guam:
  Roman Catholic 85%, other 15% (1999 est.)

Guatemala:
  Roman Catholic, Protestant, indigenous Mayan beliefs

Guernsey:
  Anglican, Roman Catholic, Presbyterian, Baptist,
  Congregational, Methodist

Guinea:
  Muslim 85%, Christian 8%, indigenous beliefs 7%

Guinea-Bissau:
  indigenous beliefs 50%, Muslim 45%, Christian 5%

Guyana:
  Christian 50%, Hindu 33%, Muslim 9%, other 8%

Haiti:
  Roman Catholic 80%, Protestant 16% (Baptist 10%, Pentecostal
  4%, Adventist 1%, other 1%), none 1%, other 3% (1982)

  note:  roughly one-half of the population also practices Voodoo

Holy See (Vatican City):
  Roman Catholic

Honduras:
  Roman Catholic 97%, Protestant minority

Hong Kong:
  eclectic mixture of local religions 90%, Christian 10%

Hungary:
  Roman Catholic 67.5%, Calvinist 20%, Lutheran 5%, atheist
  and other 7.5%

Iceland:
  Evangelical Lutheran 93%, other Protestant and Roman
  Catholic, none (1997)

India:
  Hindu 81.3%, Muslim 12%, Christian 2.3%, Sikh 1.9%, other
  groups including Buddhist, Jain, Parsi 2.5% (2000)

Indonesia:
  Muslim 88%, Protestant 5%, Roman Catholic 3%, Hindu 2%,
  Buddhist 1%, other 1% (1998)

Iran:
  Shi'a Muslim 89%, Sunni Muslim 10%, Zoroastrian, Jewish,
  Christian, and Baha'i 1%

Iraq:
  Muslim 97% (Shi'a 60%-65%, Sunni 32%-37%), Christian or other
  3%

Ireland:
  Roman Catholic 91.6%, Church of Ireland 2.5%, other 5.9%
  (1998)

Israel:
  Jewish 80.1%, Muslim 14.6% (mostly Sunni Muslim), Christian
  2.1%, other 3.2% (1996 est.)

Italy:
  predominately Roman Catholic with mature Protestant and
  Jewish communities and a growing Muslim immigrant community

Jamaica:
  Protestant 61.3% (Church of God 21.2%, Baptist 8.8%,
  Anglican 5.5%, Seventh-Day Adventist 9%, Pentecostal 7.6%, Methodist
  2.7%, United Church 2.7%, Brethren 1.1%, Jehovah's Witness 1.6%,
  Moravian 1.1%), Roman Catholic 4%, other, including some spiritual
  cults 34.7%

Japan:
  observe both Shinto and Buddhist 84%, other 16% (including
  Christian 0.7%)

Jersey:
  Anglican, Roman Catholic, Baptist, Congregational New
  Church, Methodist, Presbyterian

Jordan:
  Sunni Muslim 92%, Christian 6% (majority Greek Orthodox, but
  some Greek Catholics, Roman Catholics, Syrian Orthodox, Coptic
  Orthodox, Armenian Orthodox, and Protestant denominations), other 2%
  (several small Shi'a Muslim and Druze populations) (2000 est.)

Kazakhstan:
  Muslim 47%, Russian Orthodox 44%, Protestant 2%, other 7%

Kenya:
  Protestant 38%, Roman Catholic 28%, indigenous beliefs 26%,
  Muslim 7%, other 1%

  note:  a large majority of Kenyans are Christian, but estimates for
  the percentage of the population that adheres to Islam or indigenous
  beliefs vary widely

Kiribati:
  Roman Catholic 54%, Protestant (Congregational) 30%, some
  Seventh-Day Adventist, Baha'i, Latter-day Saints, and Church of God
  (1996)

Korea, North:
  traditionally Buddhist and Confucianist, some
  Christian and syncretic Chondogyo (Religion of the Heavenly Way)

  note:  autonomous religious activities now almost nonexistent;
  government-sponsored religious groups exist to provide illusion of
  religious freedom

Korea, South:
  Christian 49%, Buddhist 47%, Confucianist 3%,
  Shamanist, Chondogyo (Religion of the Heavenly Way), and other 1%

Kuwait:
  Muslim 85% (Sunni 45%, Shi'a 40%), Christian, Hindu, Parsi,
  and other 15%

Kyrgyzstan:
  Muslim 75%, Russian Orthodox 20%, other 5%

Laos:
  Buddhist 60%, animist and other 40%

Latvia:
  Lutheran, Roman Catholic, Russian Orthodox

Lebanon:
  Muslim 70% (including Shi'a, Sunni, Druze, Isma'ilite,
  Alawite or Nusayri), Christian 30% (including Orthodox Christian,
  Catholic, Protestant), Jewish NEGL%

Lesotho:
  Christian 80%, indigenous beliefs 20%

Liberia:
  indigenous beliefs 40%, Christian 40%, Muslim 20%

Libya:
  Sunni Muslim 97%

Liechtenstein:
  Roman Catholic 80%, Protestant 7.4%, unknown 7.7%,
  other 4.9% (1996)

Lithuania:
  Roman Catholic (primarily), Lutheran, Russian Orthodox,
  Protestant, Evangelical Christian Baptist, Muslim, Jewish

Luxembourg:
  the greatest preponderance of the population is Roman
  Catholic with a very few Protestants, Jews, and Muslims

  note:  1979 legislation forbids the collection of religious
  statistics

Macau:
  Buddhist 50%, Roman Catholic 15%, none and other 35% (1997
  est.)

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  Macedonian Orthodox 67%,
  Muslim 30%, other 3%

Madagascar:
  indigenous beliefs 52%, Christian 41%, Muslim 7%

Malawi:
  Protestant 55%, Roman Catholic 20%, Muslim 20%, indigenous
  beliefs

Malaysia:
  Islam, Buddhism, Daoism, Hinduism, Christianity, Sikhism;
  note - in addition, Shamanism is practiced in East Malaysia

Maldives:
  Sunni Muslim

Mali:
  Muslim 90%, indigenous beliefs 9%, Christian 1%

Malta:
  Roman Catholic 91%

Man, Isle of:
  Anglican, Roman Catholic, Methodist, Baptist,
  Presbyterian, Society of Friends

Marshall Islands:
  Christian (mostly Protestant)

Martinique:
  Roman Catholic 95%, Hindu and pagan African 5%

Mauritania:
  Muslim 100%

Mauritius:
  Hindu 52%, Christian 28.3% (Roman Catholic 26%,
  Protestant 2.3%), Muslim 16.6%, other 3.1%

Mayotte:
  Muslim 97%, Christian (mostly Roman Catholic)

Mexico:
  nominally Roman Catholic 89%, Protestant 6%, other 5%

Micronesia, Federated States of:
  Roman Catholic 50%, Protestant 47%,
  other and none 3%

Moldova:
  Eastern Orthodox 98.5%, Jewish 1.5%, Baptist (only about
  1,000 members) (1991)

Monaco:
  Roman Catholic 90%

Mongolia:
  Tibetan Buddhist Lamaism 96%, Muslim (primarily in the
  southwest), Shamanism, and Christian 4% (1998)

Montserrat:
  Anglican, Methodist, Roman Catholic, Pentecostal,
  Seventh-Day Adventist, other Christian denominations

Morocco:
  Muslim 98.7%, Christian 1.1%, Jewish 0.2%

Mozambique:
  indigenous beliefs 50%, Christian 30%, Muslim 20%

Namibia:
  Christian 80% to 90% (Lutheran 50% at least), indigenous
  beliefs 10% to 20%

Nauru:
  Christian (two-thirds Protestant, one-third Roman Catholic)

Nepal:
  Hinduism 86.2%, Buddhism 7.8%, Islam 3.8%, other 2.2%

  note:  only official Hindu state in the world (1995)

Netherlands:
  Roman Catholic 31%, Protestant 21%, Muslim 4.4%, other
  3.6%, unaffiliated 40% (1998)

Netherlands Antilles:
  Roman Catholic, Protestant, Jewish,
  Seventh-Day Adventist

New Caledonia:
  Roman Catholic 60%, Protestant 30%, other 10%

New Zealand:
  Anglican 24%, Presbyterian 18%, Roman Catholic 15%,
  Methodist 5%, Baptist 2%, other Protestant 3%, unspecified or none
  33% (1986)

Nicaragua:
  Roman Catholic 85%, Protestant

Niger:
  Muslim 80%, remainder indigenous beliefs and Christians

Nigeria:
  Muslim 50%, Christian 40%, indigenous beliefs 10%

Niue:
  Ekalesia Niue (Niuean Church - a Protestant church closely
  related to the London Missionary Society) 75%, Latter-Day Saints
  10%, other 15% (mostly Roman Catholic, Jehovah's Witnesses,
  Seventh-Day Adventist)

Norfolk Island:
  Anglican 39%, Roman Catholic 11.7%, Uniting Church
  in Australia 16.4%, Seventh-Day Adventist 4.4%, none 9.2%, unknown
  16.9%, other 2.4% (1986)

Northern Mariana Islands:
  Christian (Roman Catholic majority,
  although traditional beliefs and taboos may still be found)

Norway:
  Evangelical Lutheran 86% (state church), other Protestant
  and Roman Catholic 3%, other 1%, none and unknown 10% (1997)

Oman:
  Ibadhi Muslim 75%, Sunni Muslim, Shi'a Muslim, Hindu

Pakistan:
  Muslim 97% (Sunni 77%, Shi'a 20%), Christian, Hindu, and
  other 3%

Palau:
  Christian (Catholics, Seventh-Day Adventists, Jehovah's
  Witnesses, the Assembly of God, the Liebenzell Mission, and
  Latter-Day Saints), Modekngei religion (one-third of the population
  observes this religion which is indigenous to Palau)

Panama:
  Roman Catholic 85%, Protestant 15%

Papua New Guinea:
  Roman Catholic 22%, Lutheran 16%,
  Presbyterian/Methodist/London Missionary Society 8%, Anglican 5%,
  Evangelical Alliance 4%, Seventh-Day Adventist 1%, other Protestant
  10%, indigenous beliefs 34%

Paraguay:
  Roman Catholic 90%, Mennonite, and other Protestant

Peru:
  Roman Catholic 90%

Philippines:
  Roman Catholic 83%, Protestant 9%, Muslim 5%, Buddhist
  and other 3%

Pitcairn Islands:
  Seventh-Day Adventist 100%

Poland:
  Roman Catholic 95% (about 75% practicing), Eastern Orthodox,
  Protestant, and other 5%

Portugal:
  Roman Catholic 94%, Protestant (1995)

Puerto Rico:
  Roman Catholic 85%, Protestant and other 15%

Qatar:
  Muslim 95%

Reunion:
  Roman Catholic 86%, Hindu, Muslim, Buddhist (1995)

Romania:
  Romanian Orthodox 70%, Roman Catholic 3%, Uniate Catholic
  3%, Protestant 6%, unaffiliated 18%

Russia:
  Russian Orthodox, Muslim, other

Rwanda:
  Roman Catholic 52.7%, Protestant 24%, Adventist 10.4%,
  Muslim 1.9%, indigenous beliefs and other 6.5%, none 4.5% (1996)

Saint Helena:
  Anglican (majority), Baptist, Seventh-Day Adventist,
  Roman Catholic

Saint Kitts and Nevis:
  Anglican, other Protestant, Roman Catholic

Saint Lucia:
  Roman Catholic 90%, Protestant 7%, Anglican 3%

Saint Pierre and Miquelon:
  Roman Catholic 99%

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:
  Anglican 47%, Methodist 28%, Roman
  Catholic 13%, Seventh-Day Adventist, Hindu, other Protestant

Samoa:
  Christian 99.7% (about one-half of population associated with
  the London Missionary Society; includes Congregational, Roman
  Catholic, Methodist, Latter-Day Saints, Seventh-Day Adventist)

San Marino:
  Roman Catholic

Sao Tome and Principe:
  Christian 80% (Roman Catholic, Evangelical
  Protestant, Seventh-Day Adventist)

Saudi Arabia:
  Muslim 100%

Senegal:
  Muslim 92%, indigenous beliefs 6%, Christian 2% (mostly
  Roman Catholic)

Seychelles:
  Roman Catholic 90%, Anglican 8%, other 2%

Sierra Leone:
  Muslim 60%, indigenous beliefs 30%, Christian 10%

Singapore:
  Buddhist (Chinese), Muslim (Malays), Christian, Hindu,
  Sikh, Taoist, Confucianist

Slovakia:
  Roman Catholic 60.3%, atheist 9.7%, Protestant 8.4%,
  Orthodox 4.1%, other 17.5%

Slovenia:
  Roman Catholic 68.8%, Uniate Catholic 2%, Lutheran 1%,
  Muslim 1%, atheist 4.3%, other 22.9%

Solomon Islands:
  Anglican 34%, Roman Catholic 19%, Baptist 17%,
  United (Methodist/Presbyterian) 11%, Seventh-Day Adventist 10%,
  other Protestant 5%, indigenous beliefs 4%

Somalia:
  Sunni Muslim

South Africa:
  Christian 68% (includes most whites and Coloreds,
  about 60% of blacks and about 40% of Indians), Muslim 2%, Hindu 1.5%
  (60% of Indians), indigenous beliefs and animist 28.5%

Spain:
  Roman Catholic 99%, other 1%

Sri Lanka:
  Buddhist 70%, Hindu 15%, Christian 8%, Muslim 7% (1999)

Sudan:
  Sunni Muslim 70% (in north), indigenous beliefs 25%,
  Christian 5% (mostly in south and Khartoum)

Suriname:
  Hindu 27.4%, Muslim 19.6%, Roman Catholic 22.8%,
  Protestant 25.2% (predominantly Moravian), indigenous beliefs 5%

Swaziland:
  Protestant 55%, Muslim 10%, Roman Catholic 5%, indigenous
  beliefs 30%

Sweden:
  Lutheran 87%, Roman Catholic, Orthodox, Baptist, Muslim,
  Jewish, Buddhist

Switzerland:
  Roman Catholic 46.1%, Protestant 40%, other 5%, none
  8.9% (1990)

Syria:
  Sunni Muslim 74%, Alawite, Druze, and other Muslim sects 16%,
  Christian (various sects) 10%, Jewish (tiny communities in Damascus,
  Al Qamishli, and Aleppo)

Tajikistan:
  Sunni Muslim 80%, Shi'a Muslim 5%

Tanzania:
  mainland - Christian 45%, Muslim 35%, indigenous beliefs
  20%; Zanzibar - more than 99% Muslim

Thailand:
  Buddhism 95%, Muslim 3.8%, Christianity 0.5%, Hinduism
  0.1%, other 0.6% (1991)

Togo:
  indigenous beliefs 59%, Christian 29%, Muslim 12%

Tokelau:
  Congregational Christian Church 70%, Roman Catholic 28%,
  other 2%

  note:  on Atafu, all Congregational Christian Church of Samoa; on
  Nukunonu, all Roman Catholic; on Fakaofo, both denominations, with
  the Congregational Christian Church predominant

Tonga:
  Christian (Free Wesleyan Church claims over 30,000 adherents)

Trinidad and Tobago:
  Roman Catholic 29.4%, Hindu 23.8%, Anglican
  10.9%, Muslim 5.8%, Presbyterian 3.4%, other 26.7%

Tunisia:
  Muslim 98%, Christian 1%, Jewish and other 1%

Turkey:
  Muslim 99.8% (mostly Sunni), other 0.2% (Christian and Jews)

Turkmenistan:
  Muslim 89%, Eastern Orthodox 9%, unknown 2%

Turks and Caicos Islands:
  Baptist 41.2%, Methodist 18.9%, Anglican
  18.3%, Seventh-Day Adventist 1.7%, other 19.9% (1980)

Tuvalu:
  Church of Tuvalu (Congregationalist) 97%, Seventh-Day
  Adventist 1.4%, Baha'i 1%, other 0.6%

Uganda:
  Roman Catholic 33%, Protestant 33%, Muslim 16%, indigenous
  beliefs 18%

Ukraine:
  Ukrainian Orthodox - Moscow Patriarchate, Ukrainian
  Orthodox - Kiev Patriarchate, Ukrainian Autocephalous Orthodox,
  Ukrainian Catholic (Uniate), Protestant, Jewish

United Arab Emirates:
  Muslim 96% (Shi'a 16%), Christian, Hindu, and
  other 4%

United Kingdom:
  Anglican 27 million, Roman Catholic 9 million,
  Muslim 1 million, Presbyterian 800,000, Methodist 760,000, Sikh
  400,000, Hindu 350,000, Jewish 300,000 (1991 est.)

United States:
  Protestant 56%, Roman Catholic 28%, Jewish 2%, other
  4%, none 10% (1989)

Uruguay:
  Roman Catholic 66% (less than one-half of the adult
  population attends church regularly), Protestant 2%, Jewish 1%,
  nonprofessing or other 31%

Uzbekistan:
  Muslim 88% (mostly Sunnis), Eastern Orthodox 9%, other 3%

Vanuatu:
  Presbyterian 36.7%, Anglican 15%, Roman Catholic 15%,
  indigenous beliefs 7.6%, Seventh-Day Adventist 6.2%, Church of
  Christ 3.8%, other 15.7%

Venezuela:
  nominally Roman Catholic 96%, Protestant 2%, other 2%

Vietnam:
  Buddhist, Hoa Hao, Cao Dai, Christian (predominantly Roman
  Catholic, some Protestant), indigenous beliefs, Muslim

Virgin Islands:
  Baptist 42%, Roman Catholic 34%, Episcopalian 17%,
  other 7%

Wallis and Futuna:
  Roman Catholic 100%

West Bank:
  Muslim 75% (predominantly Sunni), Jewish 17%, Christian
  and other 8%

Western Sahara:
  Muslim

Yemen:
  Muslim including Shaf'i (Sunni) and Zaydi (Shi'a), small
  numbers of Jewish, Christian, and Hindu

Yugoslavia:
  Orthodox 65%, Muslim 19%, Roman Catholic 4%, Protestant
  1%, other 11%

Zambia:
  Christian 50%-75%, Muslim and Hindu 24%-49%, indigenous
  beliefs 1%

Zimbabwe:
  syncretic (part Christian, part indigenous beliefs) 50%,
  Christian 25%, indigenous beliefs 24%, Muslim and other 1%

Taiwan:
  mixture of Buddhist, Confucian, and Taoist 93%, Christian
  4.5%, other 2.5%

======================================================================

@Sex ratio



Afghanistan:
  at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1.08 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  1.12 male(s)/female

  total population:  1.06 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Albania:
  at birth:  1.08 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.07 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  0.93 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.78 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.96 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Algeria:
  at birth:  1.04 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1.02 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.86 male(s)/female

  total population:  1.02 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

American Samoa:
  at birth:  1.06 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.06 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  0.98 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  1.13 male(s)/female

  total population:  1.02 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Andorra:
  at birth:  1.07 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.1 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1.11 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  1.01 male(s)/female

  total population:  1.1 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Angola:
  at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.02 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.83 male(s)/female

  total population:  1.02 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Anguilla:
  at birth:  1.03 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.03 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.8 male(s)/female

  total population:  1.03 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Antigua and Barbuda:
  at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.71 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.99 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Argentina:
  at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.7 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.98 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Armenia:
  at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.03 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  0.96 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.72 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.95 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Aruba:
  at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.07 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  0.93 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.71 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.93 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Australia:
  at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1.02 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.78 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.99 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Austria:
  at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1.02 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.62 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.95 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Azerbaijan:
  at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  0.95 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.66 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.95 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Bahamas, The:
  at birth:  1.02 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.02 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  0.97 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.72 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.96 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Bahrain:
  at birth:  1.03 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.03 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1.45 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  1.03 male(s)/female

  total population:  1.29 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Bangladesh:
  at birth:  1.06 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  1.19 male(s)/female

  total population:  1.05 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Barbados:
  at birth:  1.01 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.02 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  0.95 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.63 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.93 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Belarus:
  at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  0.94 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.49 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.88 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Belgium:
  at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1.02 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.69 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.96 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Belize:
  at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1.02 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.95 male(s)/female

  total population:  1.03 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Benin:
  at birth:  1.03 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.02 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  0.94 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.75 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.97 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Bermuda:
  at birth:  0.94 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  0.98 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  0.98 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.76 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.95 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Bhutan:
  at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.08 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1.06 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  1.03 male(s)/female

  total population:  1.07 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Bolivia:
  at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  0.96 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.82 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.98 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  at birth:  1.07 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.06 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.73 male(s)/female

  total population:  1.02 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Botswana:
  at birth:  1.03 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.01 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  0.93 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.68 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.95 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Brazil:
  at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  0.97 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.68 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.97 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

British Virgin Islands:
  at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.03 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1.06 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  1.18 male(s)/female

  total population:  1.06 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Brunei:
  at birth:  1.06 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1.14 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.92 male(s)/female

  total population:  1.1 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Bulgaria:
  at birth:  1.06 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  0.97 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.73 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.94 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Burkina Faso:
  at birth:  1.03 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.02 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  0.91 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.73 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.95 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Burma:
  at birth:  1.06 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  0.99 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.81 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.99 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Burundi:
  at birth:  1.03 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.02 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  0.97 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.7 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.98 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Cambodia:
  at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  0.89 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.69 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.94 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Cameroon:
  at birth:  1.03 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.02 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1.01 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.86 male(s)/female

  total population:  1.01 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Canada:
  at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1.01 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.74 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.98 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Cape Verde:
  at birth:  1.03 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.02 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  0.91 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.64 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.93 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Cayman Islands:
  at birth:  0.86 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  0.93 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  0.95 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.86 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.94 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Central African Republic:
  at birth:  1.03 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.01 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  0.96 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.79 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.98 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Chad:
  at birth:  1.04 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.01 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  0.9 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.71 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.94 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Chile:
  at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  0.99 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.71 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.98 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

China:
  at birth:  1.09 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.1 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1.06 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.89 male(s)/female

  total population:  1.06 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Colombia:
  at birth:  1.03 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.02 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  0.95 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.81 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.97 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Comoros:
  at birth:  1.03 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.01 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  0.97 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.91 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.98 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  at birth:  1.03 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.01 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  0.96 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.73 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.98 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Congo, Republic of the:
  at birth:  1.03 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.01 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  0.95 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.67 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.97 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Costa Rica:
  at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1.02 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.87 male(s)/female

  total population:  1.02 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Cote d'Ivoire:
  at birth:  1.03 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.01 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1.06 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.99 male(s)/female

  total population:  1.03 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Croatia:
  at birth:  1.06 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1.01 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.59 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.94 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Cuba:
  at birth:  1.06 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.06 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1.01 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.86 male(s)/female

  total population:  1 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Cyprus:
  at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1.02 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.77 male(s)/female

  total population:  1 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Czech Republic:
  at birth:  1.06 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.63 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.95 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Denmark:
  at birth:  1.06 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1.03 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.72 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.98 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Djibouti:
  at birth:  1.03 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1.12 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  1.08 male(s)/female

  total population:  1.07 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Dominica:
  at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.03 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.69 male(s)/female

  total population:  1.01 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Dominican Republic:
  at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.9 male(s)/female

  total population:  1.03 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Ecuador:
  at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.03 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  0.98 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.87 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.99 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Egypt:
  at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1.02 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.78 male(s)/female

  total population:  1.02 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

El Salvador:
  at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  0.9 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.82 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.95 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Equatorial Guinea:
  at birth:  1.03 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.01 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  0.92 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.81 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.95 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Eritrea:
  at birth:  1.03 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  0.98 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  1.02 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.99 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Estonia:
  at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  0.93 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.49 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.86 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Ethiopia:
  at birth:  1.03 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.01 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1.01 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.83 male(s)/female

  total population:  1.01 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Faroe Islands:
  at birth:  1 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.01 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1.14 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.81 male(s)/female

  total population:  1.06 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Fiji:
  at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.87 male(s)/female

  total population:  1.01 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Finland:
  at birth:  1.03 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1.02 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.63 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.95 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

France:
  at birth:  1.06 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.68 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.95 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

French Guiana:
  at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1.18 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  1.03 male(s)/female

  total population:  1.13 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

French Polynesia:
  at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1.09 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  1.01 male(s)/female

  total population:  1.07 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Gabon:
  at birth:  1.03 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1.02 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.98 male(s)/female

  total population:  1.01 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Gambia, The:
  at birth:  1.03 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.01 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  0.98 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  1.1 male(s)/female

  total population:  1 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Gaza Strip:
  at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1.03 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.75 male(s)/female

  total population:  1.03 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Georgia:
  at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  0.93 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.63 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.91 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Germany:
  at birth:  1.06 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1.03 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.63 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.96 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Ghana:
  at birth:  1.03 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.01 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  0.98 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.91 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.99 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Gibraltar:
  at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1.07 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.72 male(s)/female

  total population:  1 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Greece:
  at birth:  1.07 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.06 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.8 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.97 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Greenland:
  at birth:  1.02 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.03 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1.2 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.82 male(s)/female

  total population:  1.13 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Grenada:
  at birth:  1 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.03 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1.12 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.83 male(s)/female

  total population:  1.07 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Guadeloupe:
  at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  0.98 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.72 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.97 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Guam:
  at birth:  1.14 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.1 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1.11 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  1.01 male(s)/female

  total population:  1.1 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Guatemala:
  at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.88 male(s)/female

  total population:  1.01 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Guernsey:
  at birth:  1.04 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.03 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  0.98 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.7 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.94 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Guinea:
  at birth:  1.03 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  0.99 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  0.95 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.7 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.96 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Guinea-Bissau:
  at birth:  1.03 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  0.91 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.81 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.94 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Guyana:
  at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1.02 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.81 male(s)/female

  total population:  1.01 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Haiti:
  at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.03 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  0.94 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.94 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.97 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Honduras:
  at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  0.98 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.9 male(s)/female

  total population:  1 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Hong Kong:
  at birth:  1.07 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.13 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  0.98 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.84 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.99 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Hungary:
  at birth:  1.07 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  0.96 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.58 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.91 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Iceland:
  at birth:  1.08 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.07 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1.02 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.81 male(s)/female

  total population:  1 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

India:
  at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.06 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1.07 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  1.03 male(s)/female

  total population:  1.07 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Indonesia:
  at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.03 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.78 male(s)/female

  total population:  1 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Iran:
  at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1.01 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  1.11 male(s)/female

  total population:  1.03 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Iraq:
  at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.03 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1.03 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.88 male(s)/female

  total population:  1.02 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Ireland:
  at birth:  1.07 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.76 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.98 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Israel:
  at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1.01 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.75 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.99 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Italy:
  at birth:  1.07 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.06 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  0.99 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.7 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.94 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Jamaica:
  at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.81 male(s)/female

  total population:  1 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Japan:
  at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1.01 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.73 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.96 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Jersey:
  at birth:  1.08 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.07 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  0.99 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.75 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.96 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Jordan:
  at birth:  1.06 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1.14 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.98 male(s)/female

  total population:  1.1 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Kazakhstan:
  at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.03 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  0.94 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.52 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.93 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Kenya:
  at birth:  1.03 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.02 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1.01 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.78 male(s)/female

  total population:  1.01 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Kiribati:
  at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.03 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  0.97 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.75 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.99 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Korea, North:
  at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  0.97 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.48 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.94 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Korea, South:
  at birth:  1.11 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.13 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1.03 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.63 male(s)/female

  total population:  1.01 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Kuwait:
  at birth:  1.04 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1.77 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  1.81 male(s)/female

  total population:  1.51 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Kyrgyzstan:
  at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.02 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  0.96 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.61 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.95 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Laos:
  at birth:  1.03 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.01 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  0.97 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.85 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.98 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Latvia:
  at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  0.91 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.48 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.85 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Lebanon:
  at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  0.91 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.84 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.94 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Lesotho:
  at birth:  1.03 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.01 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  0.93 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.73 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.95 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Liberia:
  at birth:  1.03 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  0.95 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  1.01 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.98 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Libya:
  at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1.07 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.97 male(s)/female

  total population:  1.06 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Liechtenstein:
  at birth:  1.01 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.67 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.95 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Lithuania:
  at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  0.94 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.51 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.88 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Luxembourg:
  at birth:  1.07 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.06 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1.02 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.67 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.97 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Macau:
  at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.07 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  0.9 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.68 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.92 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  at birth:  1.08
  male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.08 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1.01 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.8 male(s)/female

  total population:  1 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Madagascar:
  at birth:  1.03 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.01 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  0.98 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.88 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.99 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Malawi:
  at birth:  1.03 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  0.97 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.68 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.98 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Malaysia:
  at birth:  1.07 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.06 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.78 male(s)/female

  total population:  1.01 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Maldives:
  at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.06 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  1.07 male(s)/female

  total population:  1.05 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Mali:
  at birth:  1.03 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.01 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  0.91 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.88 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.96 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Malta:
  at birth:  1.09 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.07 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1.01 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.72 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.98 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Man, Isle of:
  at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1.01 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.66 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.94 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Marshall Islands:
  at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.91 male(s)/female

  total population:  1.04 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Martinique:
  at birth:  1.02 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.03 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  0.99 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.8 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.98 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Mauritania:
  at birth:  1.03 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  0.97 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.71 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.98 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Mauritius:
  at birth:  1.02 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.02 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  0.99 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.67 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.98 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Mayotte:
  at birth:  1.03 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.01 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1.2 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.98 male(s)/female

  total population:  1.1 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Mexico:
  at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  0.95 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.8 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.97 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Moldova:
  at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  0.92 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.59 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.91 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Monaco:
  at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  0.97 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.69 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.91 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Mongolia:
  at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.03 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.76 male(s)/female

  total population:  1 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Montserrat:
  at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.01 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  0.92 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  1.14 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.96 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Morocco:
  at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  0.99 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.82 male(s)/female

  total population:  1 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Mozambique:
  at birth:  1.03 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  0.99 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  0.98 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.71 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.98 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Namibia:
  at birth:  1.03 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.03 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.77 male(s)/female

  total population:  1 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Nauru:
  at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.06 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  0.98 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  1.01 male(s)/female

  total population:  1.01 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Nepal:
  at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.07 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.98 male(s)/female

  total population:  1.05 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Netherlands:
  at birth:  1.04 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1.03 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.7 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.98 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Netherlands Antilles:
  at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  0.91 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.71 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.92 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

New Caledonia:
  at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1.02 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.89 male(s)/female

  total population:  1.02 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

New Zealand:
  at birth:  1.04 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1.01 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.77 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.99 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Nicaragua:
  at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  0.99 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.77 male(s)/female

  total population:  1 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Niger:
  at birth:  1.03 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  0.96 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  1.1 male(s)/female

  total population:  1 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Nigeria:
  at birth:  1.03 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.01 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  1 male(s)/female

  total population:  1.02 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Northern Mariana Islands:
  at birth:  1.06 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.03 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  0.89 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.98 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.92 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Norway:
  at birth:  1.07 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.06 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1.03 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.71 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.98 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Oman:
  at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1.55 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  1.12 male(s)/female

  total population:  1.3 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Pakistan:
  at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.06 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.96 male(s)/female

  total population:  1.05 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Palau:
  at birth:  1.06 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.06 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1.2 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.9 male(s)/female

  total population:  1.14 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Panama:
  at birth:  1.04 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1.03 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.91 male(s)/female

  total population:  1.02 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Papua New Guinea:
  at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.03 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1.07 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.9 male(s)/female

  total population:  1.05 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Paraguay:
  at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.03 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1.01 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.85 male(s)/female

  total population:  1.01 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Peru:
  at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.03 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1.01 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.85 male(s)/female

  total population:  1.01 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Philippines:
  at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  0.98 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.8 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.99 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Poland:
  at birth:  1.06 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  0.99 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.62 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.94 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Portugal:
  at birth:  1.07 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.06 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  0.96 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.68 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.92 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Puerto Rico:
  at birth:  1.06 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  0.92 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.74 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.93 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Qatar:
  at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  2.43 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  2.5 male(s)/female

  total population:  1.92 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Reunion:
  at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  0.97 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.68 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.97 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Romania:
  at birth:  1.06 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  0.99 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.71 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.95 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Russia:
  at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  0.94 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.47 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.88 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Rwanda:
  at birth:  1.03 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.01 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  0.99 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.67 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.99 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Saint Helena:
  at birth:  1.04 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.02 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1.08 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.75 male(s)/female

  total population:  1.04 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Saint Kitts and Nevis:
  at birth:  1.06 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.7 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.98 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Saint Lucia:
  at birth:  1.07 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  0.96 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.6 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.96 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Saint Pierre and Miquelon:
  at birth:  1.06 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.73 male(s)/female

  total population:  1.01 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:
  at birth:  1.03 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.75 male(s)/female

  total population:  1.03 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Samoa:
  at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.03 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1.71 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.87 male(s)/female

  total population:  1.39 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

San Marino:
  at birth:  1.09 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.07 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  0.95 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.75 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.93 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Sao Tome and Principe:
  at birth:  1.03 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.03 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  0.93 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.84 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.97 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Saudi Arabia:
  at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1.41 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  1.22 male(s)/female

  total population:  1.23 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Senegal:
  at birth:  1.03 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.01 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  0.92 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.98 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.96 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Seychelles:
  at birth:  1.03 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.02 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  0.95 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.5 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.93 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Sierra Leone:
  at birth:  1.03 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  0.96 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  0.91 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.98 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.94 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Singapore:
  at birth:  1.08 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.07 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  0.95 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.78 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.96 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Slovakia:
  at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  0.99 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.61 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.95 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Slovenia:
  at birth:  1.06 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1.03 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.58 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.95 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Solomon Islands:
  at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1.03 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.96 male(s)/female

  total population:  1.03 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Somalia:
  at birth:  1.03 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1.02 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.79 male(s)/female

  total population:  1.01 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

South Africa:
  at birth:  1.02 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.01 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  0.93 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.6 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.94 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Spain:
  at birth:  1.07 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.06 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1.01 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.72 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.96 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Sri Lanka:
  at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  0.95 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.92 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.97 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Sudan:
  at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  1.29 male(s)/female

  total population:  1.03 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Suriname:
  at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.84 male(s)/female

  total population:  1.03 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Swaziland:
  at birth:  1.03 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  0.99 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  0.93 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.69 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.95 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Sweden:
  at birth:  1.06 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1.03 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.73 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.98 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Switzerland:
  at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1.03 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.69 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.97 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Syria:
  at birth:  1.06 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.06 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.95 male(s)/female

  total population:  1.05 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Tajikistan:
  at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.02 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  0.99 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.76 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.99 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Tanzania:
  at birth:  1.03 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.01 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  0.98 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.83 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.99 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Thailand:
  at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  0.97 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.78 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.97 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Togo:
  at birth:  1.03 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.01 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  0.95 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.76 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.97 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Tonga:
  at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  0.97 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.81 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.99 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Trinidad and Tobago:
  at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1.06 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.8 male(s)/female

  total population:  1.03 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Tunisia:
  at birth:  1.08 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.07 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.99 male(s)/female

  total population:  1.02 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Turkey:
  at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1.03 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.85 male(s)/female

  total population:  1.02 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Turkmenistan:
  at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  0.97 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.62 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.98 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Turks and Caicos Islands:
  at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.03 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1.11 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.8 male(s)/female

  total population:  1.07 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Tuvalu:
  at birth:  1.04 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  0.92 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.72 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.94 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Uganda:
  at birth:  1.03 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.01 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.91 male(s)/female

  total population:  1 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Ukraine:
  at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  0.91 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.49 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.86 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

United Arab Emirates:
  at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1.73 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  2.36 male(s)/female

  total population:  1.5 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

United Kingdom:
  at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1.02 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.71 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.97 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

United States:
  at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  0.98 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.71 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.96 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Uruguay:
  at birth:  1.06 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  0.98 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.7 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.95 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Uzbekistan:
  at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.03 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  0.98 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.67 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.98 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Vanuatu:
  at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  1.17 male(s)/female

  total population:  1.05 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Venezuela:
  at birth:  1.08 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.07 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1.01 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.84 male(s)/female

  total population:  1.02 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Vietnam:
  at birth:  1.07 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.07 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  0.95 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.66 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.97 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Virgin Islands:
  at birth:  1.06 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.06 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  0.83 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.76 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.88 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

West Bank:
  at birth:  1.06 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.77 male(s)/female

  total population:  1.04 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

World:
  at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.05 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1.02 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.78 male(s)/female

  total population:  1.05 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Yemen:
  at birth:  1.05 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.03 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1.04 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  1.02 male(s)/female

  total population:  1.04 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Yugoslavia:
  at birth:  1.08 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.08 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  0.96 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.75 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.95 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Zambia:
  at birth:  1.03 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.01 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  0.99 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  0.77 male(s)/female

  total population:  0.99 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Zimbabwe:
  at birth:  1.03 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.02 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1.03 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  1.02 male(s)/female

  total population:  1.02 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

Taiwan:
  at birth:  1.09 male(s)/female

  under 15 years:  1.09 male(s)/female

  15-64 years:  1.03 male(s)/female

  65 years and over:  1.1 male(s)/female

  total population:  1.05 male(s)/female (2001 est.)

======================================================================

@Suffrage



Afghanistan:
  NA; previously males 15-50 years of age

Albania:
  18 years of age; universal and compulsory

Algeria:
  18 years of age; universal

American Samoa:
  18 years of age; universal

Andorra:
  18 years of age; universal

Angola:
  18 years of age; universal

Anguilla:
  18 years of age; universal

Antigua and Barbuda:
  18 years of age; universal

Argentina:
  18 years of age; universal and mandatory

Armenia:
  18 years of age; universal

Aruba:
  18 years of age; universal

Australia:
  18 years of age; universal and compulsory

Austria:
  19 years of age; universal; compulsory for presidential
  elections

Azerbaijan:
  18 years of age; universal

Bahamas, The:
  18 years of age; universal

Bahrain:
  none

Bangladesh:
  18 years of age; universal

Barbados:
  18 years of age; universal

Belarus:
  18 years of age; universal

Belgium:
  18 years of age; universal and compulsory

Belize:
  18 years of age; universal

Benin:
  18 years of age; universal

Bermuda:
  18 years of age; universal

Bhutan:
  each family has one vote in village-level elections

Bolivia:
  18 years of age, universal and compulsory (married); 21
  years of age, universal and compulsory (single)

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  16 years of age, if employed; 18 years of
  age, universal

Botswana:
  18 years of age; universal

Brazil:
  voluntary between 16 and 18 years of age and over 70;
  compulsory over 18 and under 70 years of age

British Virgin Islands:
  18 years of age; universal

Brunei:
  none

Bulgaria:
  18 years of age; universal

Burkina Faso:
  universal

Burma:
  18 years of age; universal

Burundi:
  NA years of age; universal adult

Cambodia:
  18 years of age; universal

Cameroon:
  20 years of age; universal

Canada:
  18 years of age; universal

Cape Verde:
  18 years of age; universal

Cayman Islands:
  18 years of age; universal

Central African Republic:
  21 years of age; universal

Chad:
  18 years of age; universal

Chile:
  18 years of age; universal and compulsory

China:
  18 years of age; universal

Cocos (Keeling) Islands:
  NA

Colombia:
  18 years of age; universal

Comoros:
  18 years of age; universal

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  18 years of age; universal and
  compulsory

Congo, Republic of the:
  18 years of age; universal

Cook Islands:
  NA years of age; universal adult

Costa Rica:
  18 years of age; universal and compulsory

Cote d'Ivoire:
  18 years of age; universal

Croatia:
  18 years of age; universal (16 years of age, if employed)

Cuba:
  16 years of age; universal

Cyprus:
  18 years of age; universal

Czech Republic:
  18 years of age; universal

Denmark:
  18 years of age; universal

Djibouti:
  NA years of age; universal adult

Dominica:
  18 years of age; universal

Dominican Republic:
  18 years of age, universal and compulsory;
  married persons regardless of age

  note:  members of the armed forces and police cannot vote

Ecuador:
  18 years of age; universal, compulsory for literate persons
  ages 18-65, optional for other eligible voters

Egypt:
  18 years of age; universal and compulsory

El Salvador:
  18 years of age; universal

Equatorial Guinea:
  18 years of age; universal adult

Eritrea:
  18 years of age; universal

Estonia:
  18 years of age; universal for all Estonian citizens

Ethiopia:
  18 years of age; universal

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas):
  18 years of age; universal

Faroe Islands:
  18 years of age; universal

Fiji:
  21 years of age; universal

Finland:
  18 years of age; universal

France:
  18 years of age; universal

French Guiana:
  18 years of age; universal

French Polynesia:
  18 years of age; universal

Gabon:
  21 years of age; universal

Gambia, The:
  18 years of age; universal

Georgia:
  18 years of age; universal

Germany:
  18 years of age; universal

Ghana:
  18 years of age; universal

Gibraltar:
  18 years of age; universal, plus other UK subjects who
  have been residents six months or more

Greece:
  18 years of age; universal and compulsory

Greenland:
  18 years of age; universal

Grenada:
  18 years of age; universal

Guadeloupe:
  18 years of age; universal

Guam:
  18 years of age; universal; US citizens, but do not vote in US
  presidential elections

Guatemala:
  18 years of age; universal (active duty members of the
  armed forces may not vote)

Guernsey:
  18 years of age; universal

Guinea:
  18 years of age; universal

Guinea-Bissau:
  18 years of age; universal

Guyana:
  18 years of age; universal

Haiti:
  18 years of age; universal

Holy See (Vatican City):
  limited to cardinals less than 80 years old

Honduras:
  18 years of age; universal and compulsory

Hong Kong:
  direct election 18 years of age; universal for permanent
  residents living in the territory of Hong Kong for the past seven
  years; indirect election limited to about 100,000 members of
  functional constituencies and an 800-member election committee drawn
  from broad regional groupings, municipal organizations, and central
  government bodies

Hungary:
  18 years of age; universal

Iceland:
  18 years of age; universal

India:
  18 years of age; universal

Indonesia:
  17 years of age; universal and married persons regardless
  of age

Iran:
  15 years of age; universal

Iraq:
  18 years of age; universal

Ireland:
  18 years of age; universal

Israel:
  18 years of age; universal

Italy:
  18 years of age; universal (except in senatorial elections,
  where minimum age is 25)

Jamaica:
  18 years of age; universal

Japan:
  20 years of age; universal

Jersey:
  NA years of age; universal adult

Jordan:
  20 years of age; universal

Kazakhstan:
  18 years of age; universal

Kenya:
  18 years of age; universal

Kiribati:
  18 years of age; universal

Korea, North:
  17 years of age; universal

Korea, South:
  20 years of age; universal

Kuwait:
  adult males who have been naturalized for 30 years or more
  or have resided in Kuwait since before 1920 and their male
  descendants at age 21

  note:  only 10% of all citizens are eligible to vote; in 1996,
  naturalized citizens who do not meet the pre-1920 qualification but
  have been naturalized for 30 years were eligible to vote for the
  first time

Kyrgyzstan:
  18 years of age; universal

Laos:
  18 years of age; universal

Latvia:
  18 years of age; universal for Latvian citizens

Lebanon:
  21 years of age; compulsory for all males; authorized for
  women at age 21 with elementary education

Lesotho:
  18 years of age; universal

Liberia:
  18 years of age; universal

Libya:
  18 years of age; universal and compulsory

Liechtenstein:
  20 years of age; universal

Lithuania:
  18 years of age; universal

Luxembourg:
  18 years of age; universal and compulsory

Macau:
  direct election 18 years of age, universal for permanent
  residents living in Macau for the past seven years; indirect
  election limited to organizations registered as "corporate voters"
  (257 are currently registered) and a 300-member Election Committee
  drawn from broad regional groupings, municipal organizations, and
  central government bodies

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  18 years of age;
  universal

Madagascar:
  18 years of age; universal

Malawi:
  18 years of age; universal

Malaysia:
  21 years of age; universal

Maldives:
  21 years of age; universal

Mali:
  21 years of age; universal

Malta:
  18 years of age; universal

Man, Isle of:
  18 years of age; universal

Marshall Islands:
  18 years of age; universal

Martinique:
  18 years of age; universal

Mauritania:
  18 years of age; universal

Mauritius:
  18 years of age; universal

Mayotte:
  18 years of age; universal

Mexico:
  18 years of age; universal and compulsory (but not enforced)

Micronesia, Federated States of:
  18 years of age; universal

Moldova:
  18 years of age; universal

Monaco:
  21 years of age; universal

Mongolia:
  18 years of age; universal

Montserrat:
  18 years of age; universal

Morocco:
  21 years of age; universal

Mozambique:
  18 years of age; universal

Namibia:
  18 years of age; universal

Nauru:
  20 years of age; universal and compulsory

Nepal:
  18 years of age; universal

Netherlands:
  18 years of age; universal

Netherlands Antilles:
  18 years of age; universal

New Caledonia:
  18 years of age; universal

New Zealand:
  18 years of age; universal

Nicaragua:
  16 years of age; universal

Niger:
  18 years of age; universal

Nigeria:
  18 years of age; universal

Niue:
  18 years of age; universal

Norfolk Island:
  18 years of age; universal

Northern Mariana Islands:
  18 years of age; universal; indigenous
  inhabitants are US citizens but do not vote in US presidential
  elections

Norway:
  18 years of age; universal

Oman:
  in Oman's most recent elections in 2000, limited to
  approximately 175,000 Omanis chosen by the government to vote in
  elections for the Majlis ash-Shura

Pakistan:
  21 years of age; universal; separate electorates and
  reserved parliamentary seats for non-Muslims

Palau:
  18 years of age; universal

Panama:
  18 years of age; universal and compulsory

Papua New Guinea:
  18 years of age; universal

Paraguay:
  18 years of age; universal and compulsory up to age 75

Peru:
  18 years of age; universal

Philippines:
  18 years of age; universal

Pitcairn Islands:
  18 years of age; universal with three years
  residency

Poland:
  18 years of age; universal

Portugal:
  18 years of age; universal

Puerto Rico:
  18 years of age; universal; indigenous inhabitants are
  US citizens but do not vote in US presidential elections

Qatar:
  suffrage is limited to municipal elections

Reunion:
  18 years of age; universal

Romania:
  18 years of age; universal

Russia:
  18 years of age; universal

Rwanda:
  18 years of age; universal adult

Saint Helena:
  NA years of age

Saint Kitts and Nevis:
  18 years of age; universal

Saint Lucia:
  18 years of age; universal

Saint Pierre and Miquelon:
  18 years of age; universal

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:
  18 years of age; universal

Samoa:
  21 years of age; universal

San Marino:
  18 years of age; universal

Sao Tome and Principe:
  18 years of age; universal

Saudi Arabia:
  none

Senegal:
  18 years of age; universal

Seychelles:
  17 years of age; universal

Sierra Leone:
  18 years of age; universal

Singapore:
  21 years of age; universal and compulsory

Slovakia:
  18 years of age; universal

Slovenia:
  18 years of age; universal (16 years of age, if employed)

Solomon Islands:
  21 years of age; universal

Somalia:
  18 years of age; universal

South Africa:
  18 years of age; universal

Spain:
  18 years of age; universal

Sri Lanka:
  18 years of age; universal

Sudan:
  17 years of age; universal, but noncompulsory

Suriname:
  18 years of age; universal

Swaziland:
  18 years of age

Sweden:
  18 years of age; universal

Switzerland:
  18 years of age; universal

Syria:
  18 years of age; universal

Tajikistan:
  18 years of age; universal

Tanzania:
  18 years of age; universal

Thailand:
  18 years of age; universal and compulsory

Togo:
  NA years of age; universal adult

Tokelau:
  21 years of age; universal

Tonga:
  21 years of age; universal

Trinidad and Tobago:
  18 years of age; universal

Tunisia:
  20 years of age; universal

Turkey:
  18 years of age; universal

Turkmenistan:
  18 years of age; universal

Turks and Caicos Islands:
  18 years of age; universal

Tuvalu:
  18 years of age; universal

Uganda:
  18 years of age; universal

Ukraine:
  18 years of age; universal

United Arab Emirates:
  none

United Kingdom:
  18 years of age; universal

United States:
  18 years of age; universal

Uruguay:
  18 years of age; universal and compulsory

Uzbekistan:
  18 years of age; universal

Vanuatu:
  18 years of age; universal

Venezuela:
  18 years of age; universal

Vietnam:
  18 years of age; universal

Virgin Islands:
  18 years of age; universal; note - indigenous
  inhabitants are US citizens but do not vote in US presidential
  elections

Wallis and Futuna:
  18 years of age; universal

Western Sahara:
  none; a UN-sponsored voter identification campaign
  has yet to be completed

Yemen:
  18 years of age; universal

Yugoslavia:
  16 years of age, if employed; 18 years of age, universal

Zambia:
  18 years of age; universal

Zimbabwe:
  18 years of age; universal

Taiwan:
  20 years of age; universal

======================================================================

@Telephone system



Afghanistan:
  general assessment:  very limited telephone and
  telegraph service

  domestic:  in 1997, telecommunications links were established
  between Mazar-e Sharif, Herat, Kandahar, Jalalabad, and Kabul
  through satellite and microwave systems

  international:  satellite earth stations - 1 Intelsat (Indian Ocean)
  linked only to Iran and 1 Intersputnik (Atlantic Ocean region);
  commercial satellite telephone center in Ghazni

Albania:
  general assessment:  Albania has the poorest telephone
  service in Europe with fewer than two telephones per 100
  inhabitants; it is doubtful that every village has telephone service

  domestic:  obsolete wire system; no longer provides a telephone for
  every village; in 1992, following the fall of the communist
  government, peasants cut the wire to about 1,000 villages and used
  it to build fences

  international:  inadequate; international traffic carried by
  microwave radio relay from the Tirana exchange to Italy and Greece

Algeria:
  general assessment:  telephone density in Algeria is very
  low, not exceeding five telephones per 100 persons; the number of
  fixed main lines has been increased in the last few years to a
  little more than 2,000,000, but only about two-thirds of these have
  subscribers; much of the infrastructure is outdated and inefficient

  domestic:  good service in north but sparse in south; domestic
  satellite system with 12 earth stations (20 additional domestic
  earth stations are planned)

  international:  5 submarine cables; microwave radio relay to Italy,
  France, Spain, Morocco, and Tunisia; coaxial cable to Morocco and
  Tunisia; participant in Medarabtel; satellite earth stations - 2
  Intelsat (1 Atlantic Ocean and 1 Indian Ocean), 1 Intersputnik, and
  1 Arabsat (1998)

American Samoa:
  general assessment:  NA

  domestic:  good telex, telegraph, facsimile and cellular telephone
  services; domestic satellite system with 1 Comsat earth station

  international:  satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (Pacific Ocean)

Andorra:
  general assessment:  NA

  domestic:  modern system with microwave radio relay connections
  between exchanges

  international:  landline circuits to France and Spain

Angola:
  general assessment:  telephone service limited mostly to
  government and business use; HF radiotelephone used extensively for
  military links

  domestic:  limited system of wire, microwave radio relay, and
  tropospheric scatter

  international:  satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat (Atlantic
  Ocean)

Anguilla:
  general assessment:  NA

  domestic:  modern internal telephone system

  international:  microwave radio relay to island of Saint Martin
  (Guadeloupe and Netherlands Antilles)

Antarctica:
  general assessment:  NA

  domestic:  NA

  international:  NA

Antigua and Barbuda:
  general assessment:  NA

  domestic:  good automatic telephone system

  international:  1 coaxial submarine cable; satellite earth station -
  1 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean); tropospheric scatter to Saba
  (Netherlands Antilles) and Guadeloupe

Argentina:
  general assessment:  by opening the telecommunications
  market to competition and foreign investment with the
  "Telecommunications Liberalization Plan of 1998", Argentina
  encouraged the growth of modern telecommunication technology;
  fiber-optic cable trunk lines are being installed between all major
  cities; the major networks are entirely digital and the availability
  of telephone service is being improved; however, telephone density
  is presently minimal, and making telephone service universally
  available will take some time

  domestic:  microwave radio relay, fiber-optic cable, and a domestic
  satellite system with 40 earth stations serve the trunk network;
  more than 110,000 pay telephones are installed and mobile telephone
  use is rapidly expanding

  international:  satellite earth stations - 8 Intelsat (Atlantic
  Ocean); Atlantis II and Unisur submarine cables; two international
  gateways near Buenos Aires (1999)

Armenia:
  general assessment:  system inadequate; now 90% privately
  owned and undergoing modernization and expansion

  domestic:  the majority of subscribers and the most modern equipment
  are in Yerevan (this includes paging and mobile cellular service)

  international:  Yerevan is connected to the Trans-Asia-Europe
  fiber-optic cable through Iran; additional international service is
  available by microwave radio relay and landline connections to the
  other countries of the Commonwealth of Independent States and
  through the Moscow international switch and by satellite to the rest
  of the world; satellite earth stations - 1 Intelsat

Aruba:
  general assessment:  NA

  domestic:  more than adequate

  international:  1 submarine cable to Sint Maarten (Netherlands
  Antilles); extensive interisland microwave radio relay links

Australia:
  general assessment:  excellent domestic and international
  service

  domestic:  domestic satellite system; much use of radiotelephone in
  areas of low population density; rapid growth of mobile cellular
  telephones

  international:  submarine cables to New Zealand, Papua New Guinea,
  and Indonesia; satellite earth stations - 10 Intelsat (4 Indian
  Ocean and 6 Pacific Ocean), 2 Inmarsat (Indian and Pacific Ocean
  regions) (1998)

Austria:
  general assessment:  highly developed and efficient

  domestic:  there are 48 main lines for every 100 persons and the
  system is nearly 100% digital; the fiber optic net is very
  extensive; all telephone applications and Internet services are
  available

  international:  satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat (1 Atlantic
  Ocean and 1 Indian Ocean) and 2 Eutelsat (1999)

Azerbaijan:
  general assessment:  inadequate; requires considerable
  expansion and modernization; teledensity of 8.6 main lines per 100
  persons is very low

  domestic:  the majority of telephones are in Baku and other
  industrial centers - about 700 villages still do not have public
  telephone service; satellite service connects Baku to a modern
  switch in its exclave of Naxcivan

  international:  the old Soviet system of cable and microwave is
  still serviceable; a satellite connection to Turkey enables Baku to
  reach about 200 additional countries, some of which are directly
  connected to Baku by satellite providers other than Turkey (1997)

Bahamas, The:
  general assessment:  modern facilities

  domestic:  totally automatic system; highly developed

  international:  tropospheric scatter and submarine cable to Florida;
  3 coaxial submarine cables; satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat
  (Atlantic Ocean) (1997)

Bahrain:
  general assessment:  modern system

  domestic:  modern fiber-optic integrated services; digital network
  with rapidly growing use of mobile cellular telephones

  international:  tropospheric scatter to Qatar and UAE; microwave
  radio relay to Saudi Arabia; submarine cable to Qatar, UAE, and
  Saudi Arabia; satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat (1 Atlantic
  Ocean and 1 Indian Ocean) and 1 Arabsat (1997)

Bangladesh:
  general assessment:  totally inadequate for a modern
  country

  domestic:  modernizing; introducing digital systems; trunk systems
  include VHF and UHF microwave radio relay links, and some
  fiber-optic cable in cities

  international:  satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat (Indian
  Ocean); international radiotelephone communications and landline
  service to neighboring countries (2000)

Barbados:
  general assessment:  NA

  domestic:  island-wide automatic telephone system

  international:  satellite earth stations - 4 Intelsat (Atlantic
  Ocean); tropospheric scatter to Trinidad and Saint Lucia

Belarus:
  general assessment:  the Ministry of Telecommunications
  controls all telecommunications through its carrier (a joint stock
  company) Beltelcom which is a monopoly

  domestic:  local - Minsk has a digital metropolitan network and a
  cellular NMT-450 network; waiting lists for telephones are long;
  local service outside Minsk is neglected and poor; intercity -
  Belarus has a partly developed fiber-optic backbone system presently
  serving at least 13 major cities (1998); Belarus's fiber optics form
  synchronous digital hierarchy rings through other countries'
  systems; an inadequate analog system remains operational

  international:  Belarus is a member of the Trans-European Line
  (TEL), Trans-Asia-Europe (TAE) fiber-optic line, and has access to
  the Trans-Siberia Line (TSL); three fiber-optic segments provide
  connectivity to Latvia, Poland, Russia, and Ukraine; worldwide
  service is available to Belarus through this infrastructure;
  additional analog lines to Russia; Intelsat, Eutelsat, and
  Intersputnik earth stations

Belgium:
  general assessment:  highly developed, technologically
  advanced, and completely automated domestic and international
  telephone and telegraph facilities

  domestic:  nationwide cellular telephone system; extensive cable
  network; limited microwave radio relay network

  international:  5 submarine cables; satellite earth stations - 2
  Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean) and 1 Eutelsat

Belize:
  general assessment:  above-average system

  domestic:  trunk network depends primarily on microwave radio relay

  international:  satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean)

Benin:
  general assessment:  NA

  domestic:  fair system of open wire, microwave radio relay, and
  cellular connections

  international:  satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (Atlantic
  Ocean); submarine cable

Bermuda:
  general assessment:  NA

  domestic:  modern, fully automatic telephone system

  international:  3 submarine cables; satellite earth stations - 3
  Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean)

Bhutan:
  general assessment:  NA

  domestic:  domestic telephone service is very poor with few
  telephones in use

  international:  international telephone and telegraph service is by
  landline through India; a satellite earth station was planned (1990)

Bolivia:
  general assessment:  new subscribers face bureaucratic
  difficulties; most telephones are concentrated in La Paz and other
  cities; mobile cellular telephone use expanding rapidly

  domestic:  primary trunk system, which is being expanded, employs
  digital microwave radio relay; some areas are served by fiber-optic
  cable; mobile cellular systems are being expanded

  international:  satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean)

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  general assessment:  telephone and telegraph
  network is in need of modernization and expansion; many urban areas
  are below average when compared with services in other former
  Yugoslav republics

  domestic:  NA

  international:  no satellite earth stations

Botswana:
  general assessment:  sparse system

  domestic:  small system of open-wire lines, microwave radio relay
  links, and a few radiotelephone communication stations

  international:  two international exchanges; digital microwave radio
  relay links to Zambia, Zimbabwe, and South Africa; satellite earth
  station - 1 Intelsat (Indian Ocean)

Brazil:
  general assessment:  good working system

  domestic:  extensive microwave radio relay system and a domestic
  satellite system with 64 earth stations

  international:  3 coaxial submarine cables; satellite earth stations
  - 3 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean), 1 Inmarsat (Atlantic Ocean region
  east), connected by microwave relay system to MERCOSUR Brazilsat B3
  satellite earth station

British Indian Ocean Territory:
  general assessment:  separate
  facilities for military and public needs are available

  domestic:  all commercial telephone services are available,
  including connection to the Internet

  international:  international telephone service is carried by
  satellite (2000)

British Virgin Islands:
  general assessment:  worldwide telephone
  service

  domestic:  NA

  international:  submarine cable to Bermuda

Brunei:
  general assessment:  service throughout country is
  excellent; international service good to Europe, US, and East Asia

  domestic:  every service available

  international:  satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat (1 Indian
  Ocean and 1 Pacific Ocean); digital submarine cable links to
  Malaysia, Singapore, and Philippines (2001)

Bulgaria:
  general assessment:  extensive but antiquated

  domestic:  more than two-thirds of the lines are residential;
  telephone service is available in most villages; a fairly modern
  digital cable trunk line now connects switching centers in most of
  the regions, the others are connected by digital microwave radio
  relay

  international:  direct dialing to 58 countries; satellite earth
  stations - 1 Intersputnik (Atlantic Ocean region); 2 Intelsat
  (Atlantic and Indian Ocean regions)

Burkina Faso:
  general assessment:  all services only fair

  domestic:  microwave radio relay, open wire, and radiotelephone
  communication stations

  international:  satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean)

Burma:
  general assessment:  meets minimum requirements for local and
  intercity service for business and government; international service
  is good

  domestic:  NA

  international:  satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (Indian Ocean)

Burundi:
  general assessment:  primitive system

  domestic:  sparse system of open wire, radiotelephone
  communications, and low-capacity microwave radio relay

  international:  satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (Indian Ocean)

Cambodia:
  general assessment:  adequate landline and/or cellular
  service in Phnom Penh and other provincial cities; rural areas have
  little telephone service

  domestic:  NA

  international:  adequate but expensive landline and cellular service
  available to all countries from Phnom Penh and major provincial
  cities; satellite earth station - 1 Intersputnik (Indian Ocean
  region)

Cameroon:
  general assessment:  available only to business and
  government

  domestic:  cable, microwave radio relay, and tropospheric scatter

  international:  satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat (Atlantic
  Ocean)

Canada:
  general assessment:  excellent service provided by modern
  technology

  domestic:  domestic satellite system with about 300 earth stations

  international:  5 coaxial submarine cables; satellite earth stations
  - 5 Intelsat (4 Atlantic Ocean and 1 Pacific Ocean) and 2
  Intersputnik (Atlantic Ocean region)

Cape Verde:
  general assessment:  effective system, being improved

  domestic:  interisland microwave radio relay system with both analog
  and digital exchanges; work is in progress on a submarine
  fiber-optic cable system which was scheduled for completion in 1998

  international:  2 coaxial submarine cables; HF radiotelephone to
  Senegal and Guinea-Bissau; satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat
  (Atlantic Ocean)

Cayman Islands:
  general assessment:  NA

  domestic:  NA

  international:  1 submarine coaxial cable; satellite earth station -
  1 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean)

Central African Republic:
  general assessment:  fair system

  domestic:  network consists principally of microwave radio relay and
  low-capacity, low-powered radiotelephone communication

  international:  satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean)

Chad:
  general assessment:  primitive system

  domestic:  fair system of radiotelephone communication stations

  international:  satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean)

Chile:
  general assessment:  modern system based on extensive
  microwave radio relay facilities

  domestic:  extensive microwave radio relay links; domestic satellite
  system with 3 earth stations

  international:  satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat (Atlantic
  Ocean)

China:
  general assessment:  domestic and international services are
  increasingly available for private use; unevenly distributed
  domestic system serves principal cities, industrial centers, and
  many towns

  domestic:  interprovincial fiber-optic trunk lines and cellular
  telephone systems have been installed; a domestic satellite system
  with 55 earth stations is in place

  international:  satellite earth stations - 5 Intelsat (4 Pacific
  Ocean and 1 Indian Ocean), 1 Intersputnik (Indian Ocean region) and
  1 Inmarsat (Pacific and Indian Ocean regions); several international
  fiber-optic links to Japan, South Korea, Hong Kong, Russia, and
  Germany (2000)

Christmas Island:
  general assessment:  NA

  domestic:  NA

  international:  satellite earth stations - one Intelsat earth
  station provides telephone and telex service

Cocos (Keeling) Islands:
  general assessment:  NA

  domestic:  NA

  international:  telephone, telex, and facsimile communications with
  Australia and elsewhere via satellite; 1 satellite earth station of
  NA type

Colombia:
  general assessment:  modern system in many respects

  domestic:  nationwide microwave radio relay system; domestic
  satellite system with 41 earth stations; fiber-optic network linking
  50 cities

  international:  satellite earth stations - 6 Intelsat, 1 Inmarsat; 3
  fully digitalized international switching centers; 8 submarine cables

Comoros:
  general assessment:  sparse system of microwave radio relay
  and HF radiotelephone communication stations

  domestic:  HF radiotelephone communications and microwave radio relay

  international:  HF radiotelephone communications to Madagascar and
  Reunion

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  general assessment:  NA

  domestic:  barely adequate wire and microwave radio relay service in
  and between urban areas; domestic satellite system with 14 earth
  stations

  international:  satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean)

Congo, Republic of the:
  general assessment:  services barely
  adequate for government use; key exchanges are in Brazzaville,
  Pointe-Noire, and Loubomo; intercity lines frequently out-of-order

  domestic:  primary network consists of microwave radio relay and
  coaxial cable

  international:  satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean)

Cook Islands:
  general assessment:  NA

  domestic:  the individual islands are connected by a combination of
  satellite earth stations, microwave systems, and VHF and HF
  radiotelephone; within the islands, service is provided by small
  exchanges connected to subscribers by open wire, cable, and
  fiber-optic cable

  international:  satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (Pacific Ocean)

Costa Rica:
  general assessment:  very good domestic telephone service

  domestic:  point-to-point and point-to-multi-point microwave,
  fiber-optic, and coaxial cable link rural areas; Internet service is
  available

  international:  connected to Central American Microwave System;
  satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean); two
  submarine cables (1999)

Cote d'Ivoire:
  general assessment:  well developed by African
  standards but operating well below capacity

  domestic:  open-wire lines and microwave radio relay; 90% digitalized

  international:  satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat (1 Atlantic
  Ocean and 1 Indian Ocean); 2 coaxial submarine cables (June 1999)

Croatia:
  general assessment:  NA

  domestic:  reconstruction plan calls for replacement of all analog
  circuits with digital and enlarging the network; a backup will be
  included in the plan for the main trunk

  international:  digital international service is provided through
  the main switch in Zagreb; Croatia participates in the
  Trans-Asia-Europe (TEL) fiber-optic project which consists of two
  fiber-optic trunk connections with Slovenia and a fiber-optic trunk
  line from Rijeka to Split and Dubrovnik; Croatia is also investing
  in ADRIA 1, a joint fiber-optic project with Germany, Albania, and
  Greece (2000)

Cuba:
  general assessment:  NA

  domestic:  principal trunk system, end to end of country, is coaxial
  cable; fiber-optic distribution in Havana and on Isla de la
  Juventud; 2 microwave radio relay installations (one is old,
  US-built; the other newer, Soviet-built); both analog and digital
  mobile cellular service established

  international:  satellite earth station - 1 Intersputnik (Atlantic
  Ocean region)

Cyprus:
  general assessment:  excellent in both the Greek Cypriot and
  Turkish Cypriot areas

  domestic:  open wire, fiber-optic cable, and microwave radio relay

  international:  tropospheric scatter; 3 coaxial and 5 fiber-optic
  submarine cables; satellite earth stations - 3 Intelsat (1 Atlantic
  Ocean and 2 Indian Ocean), 2 Eutelsat, 2 Intersputnik, and 1 Arabsat

Czech Republic:
  general assessment:  privatization and modernization
  of the Czech telecommunication system got a late start but is
  advancing steadily; growth in the use of mobile cellular telephones
  is particularly vigorous

  domestic:  86% of exchanges now digital; existing copper subscriber
  systems now being enhanced with Asymmetric Digital Subscriber Line
  (ADSL) equipment to accommodate Internet and other digital signals;
  trunk systems include fiber-optic cable and microwave radio relay

  international:  satellite earth stations - 2 Intersputnik (Atlantic
  and Indian Ocean regions), 1 Intelsat, 1 Eutelsat, 1 Inmarsat, 1
  Globalstar

Denmark:
  general assessment:  excellent telephone and telegraph
  services

  domestic:  buried and submarine cables and microwave radio relay
  form trunk network, 4 cellular mobile communications systems

  international:  18 submarine fiber-optic cables linking Denmark with
  Norway, Sweden, Russia, Poland, Germany, Netherlands, UK, Faroe
  Islands, Iceland, and Canada; satellite earth stations - 6 Intelsat,
  10 Eutelsat, 1 Orion, 1 Inmarsat (Blaavand-Atlantic-East); note -
  the Nordic countries (Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway, and Sweden)
  share the Danish earth station and the Eik, Norway, station for
  worldwide Inmarsat access (1997)

Djibouti:
  general assessment:  telephone facilities in the city of
  Djibouti are adequate as are the microwave radio relay connections
  to outlying areas of the country

  domestic:  microwave radio relay network

  international:  submarine cable to Jiddah, Suez, Sicily, Marseilles,
  Colombo, and Singapore; satellite earth stations - 1 Intelsat
  (Indian Ocean) and 1 Arabsat; Medarabtel regional microwave radio
  relay telephone network

Dominica:
  general assessment:  NA

  domestic:  fully automatic network

  international:  microwave radio relay and SHF radiotelephone links
  to Martinique and Guadeloupe; VHF and UHF radiotelephone links to
  Saint Lucia

Dominican Republic:
  general assessment:  NA

  domestic:  relatively efficient system based on islandwide microwave
  radio relay network

  international:  1 coaxial submarine cable; satellite earth station -
  1 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean)

Ecuador:
  general assessment:  NA

  domestic:  facilities generally inadequate and unreliable

  international:  satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean)

Egypt:
  general assessment:  large system; underwent extensive
  upgrading during 1990s and is reasonably modern; Internet access and
  cellular service are available

  domestic:  principal centers at Alexandria, Cairo, Al Mansurah,
  Ismailia, Suez, and Tanta are connected by coaxial cable and
  microwave radio relay

  international:  satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat (Atlantic
  Ocean and Indian Ocean), 1 Arabsat, and 1 Inmarsat; 5 coaxial
  submarine cables; tropospheric scatter to Sudan; microwave radio
  relay to Israel; a participant in Medarabtel and a signatory to
  Project Oxygen (a global submarine fiber-optic cable system)

El Salvador:
  general assessment:  NA

  domestic:  nationwide microwave radio relay system

  international:  satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (Atlantic
  Ocean); connected to Central American Microwave System

Equatorial Guinea:
  general assessment:  poor system with adequate
  government services

  domestic:  NA

  international:  international communications from Bata and Malabo to
  African and European countries; satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat
  (Indian Ocean)

Eritrea:
  general assessment:  NA

  domestic:  very inadequate; most telephones are in Asmara;
  government is seeking international tenders to improve the system

  international:  NA

Estonia:
  general assessment:  foreign investment in the form of
  joint business ventures greatly improved telephone service; Internet
  services available throughout most of the country; about 150,000
  unfilled subscriber requests

  domestic:  local - the Ministry of Transport and Communications is
  expanding cellular telephone services to form rural networks;
  intercity - highly developed fiber-optic backbone (double loop)
  system presently serving at least 16 major cities (1998)

  international:  fiber-optic cables to Finland, Sweden, Latvia, and
  Russia provide worldwide packet-switched service; two international
  switches are located in Tallinn

Ethiopia:
  general assessment:  open wire and microwave radio relay
  system adequate for government use

  domestic:  open wire; microwave radio relay; radio communication in
  the HF, VHF, and UHF frequencies; two domestic satellites provide
  the national trunk service

  international:  open wire to Sudan and Djibouti; microwave radio
  relay to Kenya and Djibouti; satellite earth stations - 3 Intelsat
  (1 Atlantic Ocean and 2 Pacific Ocean)

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas):
  general assessment:  NA

  domestic:  government-operated radiotelephone and private VHF/CB
  radiotelephone networks provide effective service to almost all
  points on both islands

  international:  satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (Atlantic
  Ocean) with links through London to other countries

Faroe Islands:
  general assessment:  good international
  communications; good domestic facilities

  domestic:  digitalization was completed in 1998; both NMT (analog)
  and GSM (digital) mobile telephone systems are installed

  international:  satellite earth stations - 1 Orion; 1 fiber-optic
  submarine cable to the Shetland Islands, linking the Faroe Islands
  with Denmark and Iceland; fiber-optic submarine cable connection to
  Canada-Europe cable

Fiji:
  general assessment:  modern local, interisland, and
  international (wire/radio integrated) public and special-purpose
  telephone, telegraph, and teleprinter facilities; regional radio
  communications center

  domestic:  NA

  international:  access to important cable links between US and
  Canada as well as between NZ and Australia; satellite earth station
  - 1 Intelsat (Pacific Ocean)

Finland:
  general assessment:  modern system with excellent service

  domestic:  cable, microwave radio relay, and an extensive cellular
  net provide domestic needs

  international:  1 submarine cable; satellite earth stations - access
  to Intelsat transmission service via a Swedish satellite earth
  station, 1 Inmarsat (Atlantic and Indian Ocean regions); note -
  Finland shares the Inmarsat earth station with the other Nordic
  countries (Denmark, Iceland, Norway, and Sweden)

France:
  general assessment:  highly developed

  domestic:  extensive cable and microwave radio relay; extensive
  introduction of fiber-optic cable; domestic satellite system

  international:  satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat (with total of
  5 antennas - 2 for Indian Ocean and 3 for Atlantic Ocean), NA
  Eutelsat, 1 Inmarsat (Atlantic Ocean region); HF radiotelephone
  communications with more than 20 countries

French Guiana:
  general assessment:  NA

  domestic:  fair open wire and microwave radio relay system

  international:  satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean)

French Polynesia:
  general assessment:  NA

  domestic:  NA

  international:  satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (Pacific Ocean)

Gabon:
  general assessment:  NA

  domestic:  adequate system of cable, microwave radio relay,
  tropospheric scatter, radiotelephone communication stations, and a
  domestic satellite system with 12 earth stations

  international:  satellite earth stations - 3 Intelsat (Atlantic
  Ocean)

Gambia, The:
  general assessment:  adequate; a packet switched data
  network is available

  domestic:  adequate network of microwave radio relay and open wire

  international:  microwave radio relay links to Senegal and
  Guinea-Bissau; satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean)

Gaza Strip:
  general assessment:  NA

  domestic:  rudimentary telephone services provided by an open wire
  system

  international:  NA

Georgia:
  general assessment:  NA

  domestic:  local - T'bilisi and K'ut'aisi have cellular telephone
  networks; urban telephone density is about 20 per 100 people; rural
  telephone density is about 4 per 100 people; intercity facilities
  include a fiber-optic line between T'bilisi and K'ut'aisi;
  nationwide pager service is available

  international:  Georgia and Russia are working on a fiber-optic line
  between P'ot'i and Sochi (Russia); present international service is
  available by microwave, landline, and satellite through the Moscow
  switch; international electronic mail and telex service are available

Germany:
  general assessment:  Germany has one of the world's most
  technologically advanced telecommunications systems; as a result of
  intensive capital expenditures since reunification, the formerly
  backward system of the eastern part of the country has been
  modernized and integrated with that of the western part

  domestic:  Germany is served by an extensive system of automatic
  telephone exchanges connected by modern networks of fiber-optic
  cable, coaxial cable, microwave radio relay, and a domestic
  satellite system; cellular telephone service is widely available and
  includes roaming service to many foreign countries

  international:  satellite earth stations - 14 Intelsat (12 Atlantic
  Ocean and 2 Indian Ocean), 1 Eutelsat, 1 Inmarsat (Atlantic Ocean
  region), 2 Intersputnik (1 Atlantic Ocean region and 1 Indian Ocean
  region); 7 submarine cable connections; 2 HF radiotelephone
  communication centers; tropospheric scatter links

Ghana:
  general assessment:  poor to fair system; Internet
  accessible; many rural communities not yet connected; expansion of
  services is underway

  domestic:  primarily microwave radio relay; wireless local loop has
  been installed

  international:  satellite earth stations - 4 Intelsat (Atlantic
  Ocean); microwave radio relay link to Panaftel system connects Ghana
  to its neighbors

Gibraltar:
  general assessment:  adequate, automatic domestic system
  and adequate international facilities

  domestic:  automatic exchange facilities

  international:  radiotelephone; microwave radio relay; satellite
  earth station - 1 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean)

Greece:
  general assessment:  adequate, modern networks reach all
  areas; good mobile telephone and international service

  domestic:  microwave radio relay trunk system; extensive open wire
  connections; submarine cable to offshore islands

  international:  tropospheric scatter; 8 submarine cables; satellite
  earth stations - 2 Intelsat (1 Atlantic Ocean and 1 Indian Ocean), 1
  Eutelsat, and 1 Inmarsat (Indian Ocean region)

Greenland:
  general assessment:  adequate domestic and international
  service provided by satellite, cables and microwave radio relay;
  totally digitalized in 1995

  domestic:  microwave radio relay and satellite

  international:  satellite earth stations - 12 Intelsat, 1 Eutelsat,
  2 Americom GE-2 (all Atlantic Ocean)

Grenada:
  general assessment:  automatic, islandwide telephone system

  domestic:  interisland VHF and UHF radiotelephone links

  international:  new SHF radiotelephone links to Trinidad and Tobago
  and Saint Vincent; VHF and UHF radio links to Trinidad

Guadeloupe:
  general assessment:  domestic facilities inadequate

  domestic:  NA

  international:  satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (Atlantic
  Ocean); microwave radio relay to Antigua and Barbuda, Dominica, and
  Martinique

Guam:
  general assessment:  modern system, integrated with US
  facilities for direct dialing, including free use of 800 numbers

  domestic:  modern digital system, including cellular mobile service
  and local access to the Internet

  international:  satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat (Pacific
  Ocean); submarine cables to US and Japan (Guam is a trans-Pacific
  communications hub for MCI, Sprint, AT&T, IT&E, and GTE, linking the
  US and Asia)

Guatemala:
  general assessment:  fairly modern network centered in
  the city of Guatemala

  domestic:  NA

  international:  connected to Central American Microwave System;
  satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean)

Guernsey:
  general assessment:  NA

  domestic:  NA

  international:  1 submarine cable

Guinea:
  general assessment:  poor to fair system of open-wire lines,
  small radiotelephone communication stations, and new microwave radio
  relay system

  domestic:  microwave radio relay and radiotelephone communication

  international:  satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean)

Guinea-Bissau:
  general assessment:  small system

  domestic:  combination of microwave radio relay, open-wire lines,
  radiotelephone, and cellular communications

  international:  NA

Guyana:
  general assessment:  fair system for long-distance calling

  domestic:  microwave radio relay network for trunk lines

  international:  tropospheric scatter to Trinidad; satellite earth
  station - 1 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean)

Haiti:
  general assessment:  domestic facilities barely adequate;
  international facilities slightly better

  domestic:  coaxial cable and microwave radio relay trunk service

  international:  satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean)

Holy See (Vatican City):
  general assessment:  automatic exchange

  domestic:  tied into Italian system

  international:  uses Italian system

Honduras:
  general assessment:  inadequate system

  domestic:  NA

  international:  satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat (Atlantic
  Ocean); connected to Central American Microwave System

Hong Kong:
  general assessment:  modern facilities provide excellent
  domestic and international services

  domestic:  microwave radio relay links and extensive fiber-optic
  network

  international:  satellite earth stations - 3 Intelsat (1 Pacific
  Ocean and 2 Indian Ocean); coaxial cable to Guangzhou, China; access
  to 5 international submarine cables providing connections to ASEAN
  member nations, Japan, Taiwan, Australia, Middle East, and Western
  Europe

Hungary:
  general assessment:  the telephone system has been
  modernized and is capable of satisfying all requests for
  telecommunication service

  domestic:  the system is digitalized and highly automated; trunk
  services are carried by fiber-optic cable and digital microwave
  radio relay; a program for fiber-optic subscriber connections was
  initiated in 1996; heavy use is made of mobile cellular telephones

  international:  Hungary has fiber-optic cable connections with all
  neighboring countries; the international switch is in Budapest;
  satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean and Indian
  Ocean regions), 1 Inmarsat, 1 very small aperture terminal (VSAT)
  system of ground terminals

Iceland:
  general assessment:  adequate domestic service

  domestic:  the trunk network consists of coaxial and fiber-optic
  cables and microwave radio relay links

  international:  satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat (Atlantic
  Ocean), 1 Inmarsat (Atlantic and Indian Ocean regions); note -
  Iceland shares the Inmarsat earth station with the other Nordic
  countries (Denmark, Finland, Norway, and Sweden)

India:
  general assessment:  mediocre service; local and long
  distance service provided throughout all regions of the country,
  with services primarily concentrated in the urban areas; major
  objective is to continue to expand and modernize long-distance
  network in order to keep pace with rapidly growing number of local
  subscriber lines; steady improvement is taking place with the recent
  admission of private and private-public investors, but, with
  telephone density at about two for each 100 persons and a waiting
  list of over 2 million, demand for main line telephone service will
  not be satisfied for a very long time

  domestic:  local service is provided by microwave radio relay and
  coaxial cable, with open wire and obsolete electromechanical and
  manual switchboard systems still in use in rural areas; starting in
  the 1980s, a substantial amount of digital switch gear has been
  introduced for local and long-distance service; long-distance
  traffic is carried mostly by coaxial cable and low-capacity
  microwave radio relay; since 1985 significant trunk capacity has
  been added in the form of fiber-optic cable and a domestic satellite
  system with 254 earth stations; mobile cellular service is provided
  in four metropolitan cities

  international:  satellite earth stations - 8 Intelsat (Indian Ocean)
  and 1 Inmarsat (Indian Ocean region); nine gateway exchanges
  operating from Mumbai (Bombay), New Delhi, Kolkata (Calcutta),
  Chennai (Madras), Jalandhar, Kanpur, Gaidhinagar, Hyderabad, and
  Ernakulam; 4 submarine cables - LOCOM linking Chennai (Madras) to
  Penang; Indo-UAE-Gulf cable linking Mumbai (Bombay) to Al Fujayrah,
  UAE; India-SEA-ME-WE-3, SEA-ME-WE-2 with landing sites at Cochin and
  Mumbai (Bombay); Fiber-Optic Link Around the Globe (FLAG) with
  landing site at Mumbai (Bombay) (2000)

Indonesia:
  general assessment:  domestic service fair, international
  service good

  domestic:  interisland microwave system and HF radio police net;
  domestic satellite communications system

  international:  satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat (1 Indian
  Ocean and 1 Pacific Ocean)

Iran:
  general assessment:  inadequate but currently being modernized
  and expanded with the goal of not only improving the efficiency and
  increasing the volume of the urban service but also bringing
  telephone service to several thousand villages, not presently
  connected

  domestic:  as a result of heavy investing in the telephone system
  since 1994, the number of long-distance channels in the microwave
  radio relay trunk has grown substantially; many villages have been
  brought into the net; the number of main lines in the urban systems
  has approximately doubled; and thousands of mobile cellular
  subscribers are being served; moreover, the technical level of the
  system has been raised by the installation of thousands of digital
  switches

  international:  HF radio and microwave radio relay to Turkey,
  Azerbaijan, Pakistan, Afghanistan, Turkmenistan, Syria, Kuwait,
  Tajikistan, and Uzbekistan; submarine fiber-optic cable to UAE with
  access to Fiber-Optic Link Around the Globe (FLAG);
  Trans-Asia-Europe (TAE) fiber-optic line runs from Azerbaijan
  through the northern portion of Iran to Turkmenistan with expansion
  to Georgia and Azerbaijan; satellite earth stations - 9 Intelsat and
  4 Inmarsat; Internet service available but limited to electronic
  mail to promote Iranian culture

Iraq:
  general assessment:  reconstitution of damaged
  telecommunication facilities began after the Gulf war; most damaged
  facilities have been rebuilt

  domestic:  the network consists of coaxial cables and microwave
  radio relay links

  international:  satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat (1 Atlantic
  Ocean and 1 Indian Ocean), 1 Intersputnik (Atlantic Ocean region),
  and 1 Arabsat (inoperative); coaxial cable and microwave radio relay
  to Jordan, Kuwait, Syria, and Turkey; Kuwait line is probably
  nonoperational

Ireland:
  general assessment:  modern digital system using cable and
  microwave radio relay

  domestic:  microwave radio relay

  international:  satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean)

Israel:
  general assessment:  most highly developed system in the
  Middle East although not the largest

  domestic:  good system of coaxial cable and microwave radio relay;
  all systems are digital

  international:  3 submarine cables; satellite earth stations - 3
  Intelsat (2 Atlantic Ocean and 1 Indian Ocean)

Italy:
  general assessment:  modern, well developed, fast; fully
  automated telephone, telex, and data services

  domestic:  high-capacity cable and microwave radio relay trunks

  international:  satellite earth stations - 3 Intelsat (with a total
  of 5 antennas - 3 for Atlantic Ocean and 2 for Indian Ocean), 1
  Inmarsat (Atlantic Ocean region), and NA Eutelsat; 21 submarine
  cables

Jamaica:
  general assessment:  fully automatic domestic telephone
  network

  domestic:  NA

  international:  satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat (Atlantic
  Ocean); 3 coaxial submarine cables

Japan:
  general assessment:  excellent domestic and international
  service

  domestic:  high level of modern technology and excellent service of
  every kind

  international:  satellite earth stations - 5 Intelsat (4 Pacific
  Ocean and 1 Indian Ocean), 1 Intersputnik (Indian Ocean region), and
  1 Inmarsat (Pacific and Indian Ocean regions); submarine cables to
  China, Philippines, Russia, and US (via Guam) (1999)

Jersey:
  general assessment:  NA

  domestic:  NA

  international:  3 submarine cables

Johnston Atoll:
  general assessment:  13 outgoing and 10 incoming
  commercial lines; adequate telecommunications

  domestic:  60-channel submarine cable, 22 DSN circuits by satellite,
  Autodin with standard remote terminal, digital telephone switch,
  Military Affiliated Radio System (MARS station), UHF/VHF air-ground
  radio, a link to the Pacific Consolidated Telecommunications Network
  (PCTN) satellite

  international:  NA

Jordan:
  general assessment:  service has improved recently with the
  increased use of digital switching equipment, but better access to
  the telephone system is needed in the rural areas and easier access
  to pay telephones is needed by the urban public

  domestic:  microwave radio relay transmission and coaxial and
  fiber-optic cable are employed on trunk lines; considerable use is
  made of mobile cellular systems; Internet service is available

  international:  satellite earth stations - 3 Intelsat, 1 Arabsat,
  and 29 land and maritime Inmarsat terminals; fiber-optic cable to
  Saudi Arabia and microwave radio relay link with Egypt and Syria;
  connection to international submarine cable FLAG (Fiber-Optic Link
  Around the Globe); participant in MEDARABTEL; international links
  total about 4,000

Kazakhstan:
  general assessment:  service is poor; equipment
  antiquated

  domestic:  intercity by landline and microwave radio relay; mobile
  cellular systems are available in most of Kazakhstan

  international:  international traffic with other former Soviet
  republics and China carried by landline and microwave radio relay;
  with other countries by satellite and by the Trans-Asia-Europe (TAE)
  fiber-optic cable; satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat

Kenya:
  general assessment:  unreliable; little attempt to modernize
  except for service to business

  domestic:  trunks are primarily microwave radio relay; business data
  commonly transferred by a very small aperture terminal (VSAT) system

  international:  satellite earth stations - 4 Intelsat

Kiribati:
  general assessment:  NA

  domestic:  NA

  international:  satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (Pacific Ocean)

  note:  Kiribati is being linked to the Pacific Ocean Cooperative
  Telecommunications Network, which should improve telephone service

Korea, North:
  general assessment:  NA

  domestic:  NA

  international:  satellite earth stations - 1 Intelsat (Indian Ocean)
  and 1 Russian (Indian Ocean region); other international connections
  through Moscow and Beijing

Korea, South:
  general assessment:  excellent domestic and
  international services

  domestic:  NA

  international:  fiber-optic submarine cable to China; the
  Russia-Korea-Japan submarine cable; satellite earth stations - 3
  Intelsat (2 Pacific Ocean and 1 Indian Ocean) and 1 Inmarsat
  (Pacific Ocean region)

Kuwait:
  general assessment:  the quality of service is excellent

  domestic:  new telephone exchanges provide a large capacity for new
  subscribers; trunk traffic is carried by microwave radio relay,
  coaxial cable, open wire, and fiber-optic cable; a cellular
  telephone system operates throughout Kuwait, and the country is well
  supplied with pay telephones

  international:  coaxial cable and microwave radio relay to Saudi
  Arabia; linked to Bahrain, Qatar, UAE via the Fiber-Optic Gulf (FOG)
  cable; satellite earth stations - 3 Intelsat (1 Atlantic Ocean, 2
  Indian Ocean), 1 Inmarsat (Atlantic Ocean), and 2 Arabsat

Kyrgyzstan:
  general assessment:  poorly developed; about 100,000
  unsatisfied applications for household telephones

  domestic:  principally microwave radio relay; one cellular provider,
  probably limited to Bishkek region

  international:  connections with other CIS countries by landline or
  microwave radio relay and with other countries by leased connections
  with Moscow international gateway switch and by satellite; satellite
  earth stations - 1 Intersputnik and 1 Intelsat; connected
  internationally by the Trans-Asia-Europe (TAE) fiber-optic line

Laos:
  general assessment:  service to general public is poor but
  improving, with over 20,000 telephones currently in service and an
  additional 48,000 expected by 2001; the government relies on a
  radiotelephone network to communicate with remote areas

  domestic:  radiotelephone communications

  international:  satellite earth station - 1 Intersputnik (Indian
  Ocean region)

Latvia:
  general assessment:  inadequate, but is being modernized to
  provide an international capability independent of the Moscow
  international switch; more facilities are being installed for
  individual use

  domestic:  expansion underway in intercity trunk line connections,
  rural exchanges, and mobile systems; still many unsatisfied
  subscriber applications

  international:  international connections are now available via
  cable and a satellite earth station at Riga, enabling direct
  connections for most calls (1998)

Lebanon:
  general assessment:  telecommunications system severely
  damaged by civil war; rebuilding well underway

  domestic:  primarily microwave radio relay and cable

  international:  satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat (1 Indian
  Ocean and 1 Atlantic Ocean) (erratic operations); coaxial cable to
  Syria; microwave radio relay to Syria but inoperable beyond Syria to
  Jordan; 3 submarine coaxial cables

Lesotho:
  general assessment:  rudimentary system

  domestic:  consists of a few landlines, a small microwave radio
  relay system, and a minor radiotelephone communication system

  international:  satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean)

Liberia:
  general assessment:  telephone and telegraph service via
  microwave radio relay network; main center is Monrovia

  domestic:  NA

  international:  satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean)

Libya:
  general assessment:  telecommunications system is being
  modernized; mobile cellular telephone system became operational in
  1996

  domestic:  microwave radio relay, coaxial cable, cellular,
  tropospheric scatter, and a domestic satellite system with 14 earth
  stations

  international:  satellite earth stations - 4 Intelsat, NA Arabsat,
  and NA Intersputnik; submarine cables to France and Italy; microwave
  radio relay to Tunisia and Egypt; tropospheric scatter to Greece;
  participant in Medarabtel (1999)

Liechtenstein:
  general assessment:  automatic telephone system

  domestic:  NA

  international:  linked to Swiss networks by cable and microwave
  radio relay

Lithuania:
  general assessment:  inadequate, but is being modernized
  to provide an improved international capability and better
  residential access

  domestic:  a national, fiber-optic cable, interurban, trunk system
  is nearing completion; rural exchanges are being improved and
  expanded; mobile cellular systems are being installed; access to the
  Internet is available; still many unsatisfied telephone subscriber
  applications

  international:  landline connections to Latvia and Poland; major
  international connections to Denmark, Sweden, and Norway by
  submarine cable for further transmission by satellite

Luxembourg:
  general assessment:  highly developed, completely
  automated and efficient system, mainly buried cables

  domestic:  nationwide cellular telephone system; buried cable

  international:  3 channels leased on TAT-6 coaxial submarine cable
  (Europe to North America)

Macau:
  general assessment:  fairly modern communication facilities
  maintained for domestic and international services

  domestic:  NA

  international:  HF radiotelephone communication facility; access to
  international communications carriers provided via Hong Kong and
  China; satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (Indian Ocean)

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  general assessment:  NA

  domestic:  NA

  international:  NA

Madagascar:
  general assessment:  system is above average for the
  region

  domestic:  open-wire lines, coaxial cables, microwave radio relay,
  and tropospheric scatter links

  international:  submarine cable to Bahrain; satellite earth stations
  - 1 Intelsat (Indian Ocean) and 1 Intersputnik (Atlantic Ocean
  region)

Malawi:
  general assessment:  NA

  domestic:  fair system of open-wire lines, microwave radio relay
  links, and radiotelephone communications stations

  international:  satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat (1 Indian
  Ocean and 1 Atlantic Ocean)

Malaysia:
  general assessment:  modern system; international service
  excellent

  domestic:  good intercity service provided on Peninsular Malaysia
  mainly by microwave radio relay; adequate intercity microwave radio
  relay network between Sabah and Sarawak via Brunei; domestic
  satellite system with 2 earth stations

  international:  submarine cables to India, Hong Kong, and Singapore;
  satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat (1 Indian Ocean and 1 Pacific
  Ocean) (2001)

Maldives:
  general assessment:  minimal domestic and international
  facilities

  domestic:  interatoll communication through microwave links; all
  inhabited islands are connected with telephone and fax service

  international:  satellite earth station - 3 Intelsat (Indian Ocean)

Mali:
  general assessment:  domestic system poor but improving;
  provides only minimal service

  domestic:  network consists of microwave radio relay, open wire, and
  radiotelephone communications stations; expansion of microwave radio
  relay in progress

  international:  satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat (1 Atlantic
  Ocean and 1 Indian Ocean)

Malta:
  general assessment:  automatic system satisfies normal
  requirements

  domestic:  submarine cable and microwave radio relay between islands

  international:  2 submarine cables; satellite earth station - 1
  Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean)

Man, Isle of:
  general assessment:  NA

  domestic:  landline, telefax, mobile cellular telephone system

  international:  fiber-optic cable, microwave radio relay, satellite
  earth station, submarine cable

Marshall Islands:
  general assessment:  telex services

  domestic:  Majuro Atoll and Ebeye and Kwajalein islands have
  regular, seven-digit, direct-dial telephones; other islands
  interconnected by shortwave radiotelephone (used mostly for
  government purposes)

  international:  satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat (Pacific
  Ocean); US Government satellite communications system on Kwajalein

Martinique:
  general assessment:  domestic facilities are adequate

  domestic:  NA

  international:  microwave radio relay to Guadeloupe, Dominica, and
  Saint Lucia; satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean)

Mauritania:
  general assessment:  limited system of cable and
  open-wire lines, minor microwave radio relay links, and
  radiotelephone communications stations (improvements being made)

  domestic:  mostly cable and open-wire lines; a recently completed
  domestic satellite telecommunications system links Nouakchott with
  regional capitals

  international:  satellite earth stations - 1 Intelsat (Atlantic
  Ocean) and 2 Arabsat

Mauritius:
  general assessment:  small system with good service

  domestic:  primarily microwave radio relay

  international:  satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (Indian Ocean);
  new microwave link to Reunion; HF radiotelephone links to several
  countries

Mayotte:
  general assessment:  small system administered by French
  Department of Posts and Telecommunications

  domestic:  NA

  international:  microwave radio relay and HF radiotelephone
  communications to Comoros and other international connections

Mexico:
  general assessment:  low telephone density with about 11
  main lines per 100 persons; privatized in December 1990; the opening
  to competition in January 1997 has brightened prospects for
  development

  domestic:  adequate telephone service for business and government,
  but the population is poorly served; domestic satellite system with
  120 earth stations; extensive microwave radio relay network;
  considerable use of fiber-optic cable, coaxial cable, and mobile
  cellular service

  international:  satellite earth stations - 32 Intelsat, 2
  Solidaridad (giving Mexico improved access to South America, Central
  America, and much of the US as well as enhancing domestic
  communications), numerous Inmarsat mobile earth stations; linked to
  Central American Microwave System of trunk connections; high
  capacity Columbus-2 fiber-optic submarine cable with access to the
  US, Virgin Islands, Canary Islands, Morocco, Spain, and Italy (1997)

Micronesia, Federated States of:
  general assessment:  adequate system

  domestic:  islands interconnected by shortwave radiotelephone (used
  mostly for government purposes)

  international:  satellite earth stations - 4 Intelsat (Pacific Ocean)

Moldova:
  general assessment:  inadequate, outmoded, poor service
  outside Chisinau, some effort to modernize is under way

  domestic:  new subscribers face long wait for service; mobile
  cellular telephone service being introduced

  international:  service through Romania and Russia via landline;
  satellite earth stations - Intelsat, Eutelsat, and Intersputnik

Monaco:
  general assessment:  modern automatic telephone system

  domestic:  NA

  international:  no satellite earth stations; connected by cable into
  the French communications system

Mongolia:
  general assessment:  very low density: about 3.5
  telephones for each thousand persons

  domestic:  NA

  international:  satellite earth station - 1 Intersputnik (Indian
  Ocean Region)

Montserrat:
  general assessment:  NA

  domestic:  NA

  international:  NA

Morocco:
  general assessment:  modern system with all important
  capabilities; however density is low with only 4.6 main lines
  available for each 100 persons

  domestic:  good system composed of open-wire lines, cables, and
  microwave radio relay links; Internet available but expensive;
  principal switching centers are Casablanca and Rabat; national
  network nearly 100% digital using fiber-optic links; improved rural
  service employs microwave radio relay

  international:  7 submarine cables; satellite earth stations - 2
  Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean) and 1 Arabsat; microwave radio relay to
  Gibraltar, Spain, and Western Sahara; coaxial cable and microwave
  radio relay to Algeria; participant in Medarabtel; fiber-optic cable
  link from Agadir to Algeria and Tunisia (1998)

Mozambique:
  general assessment:  fair system but not available
  generally (telephone density is only 3.5 telephones for each 1,000
  persons)

  domestic:  the system consists of open-wire lines and trunk
  connection by microwave radio relay and tropospheric scatter

  international:  satellite earth stations - 5 Intelsat (2 Atlantic
  Ocean and 3 Indian Ocean)

Namibia:
  general assessment:  good system; about 6 telephones for
  each 100 persons

  domestic:  good urban services; fair rural service; microwave radio
  relay links major towns; connections to other populated places are
  by open wire; 100% digital

  international:  fiber-optic cable to South Africa, microwave radio
  relay link to Botswana, direct links to other neighboring countries;
  connected to Africa ONE and South African Far East (SAFE) submarine
  cables through South Africa; satellite earth stations - 4 Intelsat

Nauru:
  general assessment:  adequate local and international
  radiotelephone communications provided via Australian facilities

  domestic:  NA

  international:  satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (Pacific Ocean)

Nepal:
  general assessment:  poor telephone and telegraph service;
  fair radiotelephone communication service and mobile cellular
  telephone network

  domestic:  NA

  international:  radiotelephone communications; microwave landline to
  India; satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (Indian Ocean)

Netherlands:
  general assessment:  highly developed and well
  maintained

  domestic:  the existing system of multi-conductor cables is
  gradually being replaced by fiber-optic cables; the density of
  cellular telephone traffic is rapidly increasing and further
  modernization of the system is expected in the year 2001, with the
  introduction of the third generation of the Global System for Mobile
  Communications (GSM)

  international:  5 submarine cables; satellite earth stations - 3
  Intelsat (1 Indian Ocean and 2 Atlantic Ocean), 1 Eutelsat, and 1
  Inmarsat (Atlantic and Indian Ocean regions) (1996)

Netherlands Antilles:
  general assessment:  generally adequate
  facilities

  domestic:  extensive interisland microwave radio relay links

  international:  submarine cables - 2; satellite earth stations - 2
  Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean)

New Caledonia:
  general assessment:  NA

  domestic:  NA

  international:  satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (Pacific Ocean)

New Zealand:
  general assessment:  excellent domestic and
  international systems

  domestic:  NA

  international:  submarine cables to Australia and Fiji; satellite
  earth stations - 2 Intelsat (Pacific Ocean)

Nicaragua:
  general assessment:  inadequate system being upgraded by
  foreign investment

  domestic:  low-capacity microwave radio relay and wire system being
  expanded; connected to Central American Microwave System

  international:  satellite earth stations - 1 Intersputnik (Atlantic
  Ocean region) and 1 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean)

Niger:
  general assessment:  small system of wire, radio telephone
  communications, and microwave radio relay links concentrated in the
  southwestern area of Niger

  domestic:  wire, radiotelephone communications, and microwave radio
  relay; domestic satellite system with 3 earth stations and 1 planned

  international:  satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat (1 Atlantic
  Ocean and 1 Indian Ocean)

Nigeria:
  general assessment:  an inadequate system, further limited
  by poor maintenance; major expansion is required and a start has
  been made

  domestic:  intercity traffic is carried by coaxial cable, microwave
  radio relay, a domestic communications satellite system with 19
  earth stations, and a coastal submarine cable; mobile cellular
  facilities and the Internet are available

  international:  satellite earth stations - 3 Intelsat (2 Atlantic
  Ocean and 1 Indian Ocean); coaxial submarine cable SAFE (South
  African Far East)

Niue:
  general assessment:  primitive system

  domestic:  single-line telephone system connects all villages on
  island

  international:  NA

Norfolk Island:
  general assessment:  adequate

  domestic:  NA

  international:  radiotelephone service with Sydney (Australia)

Northern Mariana Islands:
  general assessment:  NA

  domestic:  NA

  international:  satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat (Pacific Ocean)

Norway:
  general assessment:  modern in all respects; one of the most
  advanced telecommunications networks in Europe

  domestic:  Norway has a domestic satellite system; moreover the
  prevalence of rural areas encourages the wide use of cellular mobile
  systems instead of fixed wire systems

  international:  2 buried coaxial cable systems; 4 coaxial submarine
  cables; satellite earth stations - NA Eutelsat, NA Intelsat
  (Atlantic Ocean), and 1 Inmarsat (Atlantic and Indian Ocean
  regions); note - Norway shares the Inmarsat earth station with the
  other Nordic countries (Denmark, Finland, Iceland, and Sweden) (1999)

Oman:
  general assessment:  modern system consisting of open wire,
  microwave, and radiotelephone communication stations; limited
  coaxial cable

  domestic:  open wire, microwave, radiotelephone communications, and
  a domestic satellite system with 8 earth stations

  international:  satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat (Indian Ocean)
  and 1 Arabsat

Pakistan:
  general assessment:  the domestic system is mediocre, but
  improving; service is adequate for government and business use, in
  part because major businesses have established their own private
  systems; since 1988, the government has promoted investment in the
  national telecommunications system on a priority basis,
  significantly increasing network capacity; despite major
  improvements in trunk and urban systems, telecommunication services
  are still not readily available to the majority of the rural
  population

  domestic:  microwave radio relay, coaxial cable, fiber-optic cable,
  cellular, and satellite networks

  international:  satellite earth stations - 3 Intelsat (1 Atlantic
  Ocean and 2 Indian Ocean); 3 operational international gateway
  exchanges (1 at Karachi and 2 at Islamabad); microwave radio relay
  to neighboring countries (1999)

Palau:
  general assessment:  NA

  domestic:  NA

  international:  satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (Pacific Ocean)

Panama:
  general assessment:  domestic and international facilities
  well developed

  domestic:  NA

  international:  1 coaxial submarine cable; satellite earth stations
  - 2 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean); connected to the Central American
  Microwave System

Papua New Guinea:
  general assessment:  services are adequate and
  being improved; facilities provide radiotelephone and telegraph,
  coastal radio, aeronautical radio, and international radio
  communication services

  domestic:  mostly radiotelephone

  international:  submarine cables to Australia and Guam; satellite
  earth station - 1 Intelsat (Pacific Ocean); international radio
  communication service

Paraguay:
  general assessment:  meager telephone service; principal
  switching center is Asuncion

  domestic:  fair microwave radio relay network

  international:  satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean)

Peru:
  general assessment:  adequate for most requirements

  domestic:  nationwide microwave radio relay system and a domestic
  satellite system with 12 earth stations

  international:  satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat (Atlantic
  Ocean); Pan American submarine cable

Philippines:
  general assessment:  good international radiotelephone
  and submarine cable services; domestic and interisland service
  adequate

  domestic:  domestic satellite system with 11 earth stations

  international:  9 international gateways; satellite earth stations -
  3 Intelsat (1 Indian Ocean and 2 Pacific Ocean); submarine cables to
  Hong Kong, Guam, Singapore, Taiwan, and Japan

Pitcairn Islands:
  general assessment:  only party line telephone
  service is available for this small, closely related community

  domestic:  party line service only

  international:  radiotelephone

Poland:
  general assessment:  underdeveloped and outmoded system;
  government aimed to have 10 million telephones in service by 2000;
  the process of partial privatization of the state-owned telephone
  monopoly has begun; in 1998 there were over 2 million applicants on
  the waiting list for telephone service

  domestic:  cable, open wire, and microwave radio relay; 3 cellular
  networks; local exchanges 56.6% digital

  international:  satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat, NA Eutelsat,
  2 Inmarsat (Atlantic and Indian Ocean regions), and 1 Intersputnik
  (Atlantic Ocean region)

Portugal:
  general assessment:  undergoing rapid development in
  recent years, Portugal's telephone system, by the end of 1998,
  achieved a state-of-the-art network with broadband, high-speed
  capabilities and a main line telephone density of 53%

  domestic:  integrated network of coaxial cables, open wire,
  microwave radio relay, and domestic satellite earth stations

  international:  6 submarine cables; satellite earth stations - 3
  Intelsat (2 Atlantic Ocean and 1 Indian Ocean), NA Eutelsat;
  tropospheric scatter to Azores; note - an earth station for Inmarsat
  (Atlantic Ocean region) is planned

Puerto Rico:
  general assessment:  modern system, integrated with
  that of the US by high-capacity submarine cable and Intelsat with
  high-speed data capability

  domestic:  digital telephone system; cellular telephone service

  international:  satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat; submarine
  cable to US

Qatar:
  general assessment:  modern system centered in Doha

  domestic:  NA

  international:  tropospheric scatter to Bahrain; microwave radio
  relay to Saudi Arabia and UAE; submarine cable to Bahrain and UAE;
  satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat (1 Atlantic Ocean and 1 Indian
  Ocean) and 1 Arabsat

Reunion:
  general assessment:  adequate system; principal center is
  Saint-Denis

  domestic:  modern open wire and microwave radio relay network

  international:  radiotelephone communication to Comoros, France,
  Madagascar; new microwave route to Mauritius; satellite earth
  station - 1 Intelsat (Indian Ocean)

Romania:
  general assessment:  poor domestic service, but improving

  domestic:  90% of telephone network is automatic; trunk network is
  mostly microwave radio relay, with some fiber-optic cable; about
  one-third of exchange capacity is digital; roughly 3,300 villages
  have no service

  international:  satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat; new digital,
  international, direct-dial exchanges operate in Bucharest; note -
  Romania is an active participant in several international
  telecommunication network projects (1999)

Russia:
  general assessment:  the telephone system has undergone
  significant changes in the 1990s; there are more than 1,000
  companies licensed to offer communication services; access to
  digital lines has improved, particularly in urban centers; Internet
  and e-mail services are improving; Russia has made progress toward
  building the telecommunications infrastructure necessary for a
  market economy; however, a large demand for main line service
  remains unsatisfied

  domestic:  cross-country digital trunk lines run from Saint
  Petersburg to Khabarovsk, and from Moscow to Novorossiysk; the
  telephone systems in 60 regional capitals have modern digital
  infrastructures; cellular services, both analog and digital, are
  available in many areas; in rural areas, the telephone services are
  still outdated, inadequate, and low density

  international:  Russia is connected internationally by three
  undersea fiber-optic cables; digital switches in several cities
  provide more than 50,000 lines for international calls; satellite
  earth stations provide access to Intelsat, Intersputnik, Eutelsat,
  Inmarsat, and Orbita systems

Rwanda:
  general assessment:  telephone system primarily serves
  business and government

  domestic:  the capital, Kigali, is connected to the centers of the
  prefectures by microwave radio relay; the remainder of the network
  depends on wire and HF radiotelephone

  international:  international connections employ microwave radio
  relay to neighboring countries and satellite communications to more
  distant countries; satellite earth stations - 1 Intelsat (Indian
  Ocean) in Kigali (includes telex and telefax service)

Saint Helena:
  general assessment:  can communicate with any place in
  the world

  domestic:  automatic network

  international:  HF radiotelephone from Saint Helena to Ascension
  which is a major coaxial submarine cable relay point between South
  Africa, Portugal, and UK ; satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat
  (Atlantic Ocean)

Saint Kitts and Nevis:
  general assessment:  good interisland and
  international connections

  domestic:  interisland links to Antigua and Barbuda and Saint Martin
  (Guadeloupe and Netherlands Antilles) are handled by VHF/UHF/SHF
  radiotelephone

  international:  international calls are carried by radiotelephone to
  Antigua and Barbuda and switched there to submarine cable or to
  Intelsat; or carried to Saint Martin (Guadeloupe and Netherlands
  Antilles) by radiotelephone and switched to Intelsat

Saint Lucia:
  general assessment:  adequate system

  domestic:  system is automatically switched

  international:  direct microwave radio relay link with Martinique
  and Saint Vincent and the Grenadines; tropospheric scatter to
  Barbados; international calls beyond these countries are carried by
  Intelsat from Martinique

Saint Pierre and Miquelon:
  general assessment:  adequate

  domestic:  NA

  international:  radiotelephone communication with most countries in
  the world; 1 earth station in French domestic satellite system

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:
  general assessment:  adequate
  system

  domestic:  islandwide, fully automatic telephone system; VHF/UHF
  radiotelephone from Saint Vincent to the other islands of the
  Grenadines

  international:  VHF/UHF radiotelephone from Saint Vincent to
  Barbados; new SHF radiotelephone to Grenada and to Saint Lucia;
  access to Intelsat earth station in Martinique through Saint Lucia

Samoa:
  general assessment:  adequate

  domestic:  NA

  international:  satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (Pacific Ocean)

San Marino:
  general assessment:  adequate connections

  domestic:  automatic telephone system completely integrated into
  Italian system

  international:  connected to Italian international network

Sao Tome and Principe:
  general assessment:  adequate facilities

  domestic:  minimal system

  international:  satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean)

Saudi Arabia:
  general assessment:  modern system

  domestic:  extensive microwave radio relay, coaxial cable, and
  fiber-optic cable systems

  international:  microwave radio relay to Bahrain, Jordan, Kuwait,
  Qatar, UAE, Yemen, and Sudan; coaxial cable to Kuwait and Jordan;
  submarine cable to Djibouti, Egypt and Bahrain; satellite earth
  stations - 5 Intelsat (3 Atlantic Ocean and 2 Indian Ocean), 1
  Arabsat, and 1 Inmarsat (Indian Ocean region)

Senegal:
  general assessment:  good system

  domestic:  above-average urban system; microwave radio relay,
  coaxial cable and fiber-optic cable in trunk system

  international:  4 submarine cables; satellite earth station - 1
  Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean)

Seychelles:
  general assessment:  effective system

  domestic:  radiotelephone communications between islands in the
  archipelago

  international:  direct radiotelephone communications with adjacent
  island countries and African coastal countries; satellite earth
  station - 1 Intelsat (Indian Ocean)

Sierra Leone:
  general assessment:  marginal telephone and telegraph
  service

  domestic:  national microwave radio relay trunk system, made
  unserviceable by military activities, is now operating from Freetown
  to Bo and Kenema (April 2001)

  international:  satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean)

Singapore:
  general assessment:  major consideration given to serving
  business interests; excellent international service

  domestic:  excellent domestic facilities

  international:  submarine cables to Malaysia (Sabah and Peninsular
  Malaysia), Indonesia, and the Philippines; satellite earth stations
  - 2 Intelsat (1 Indian Ocean and 1 Pacific Ocean), and 1 Inmarsat
  (Pacific Ocean region)

Slovakia:
  general assessment:  a modernization and privatization
  program is increasing accessibility to telephone service, reducing
  the waiting time for new subscribers, and generally improving
  service quality

  domestic:  predominantly an analog system that is now receiving
  digital equipment and is being enlarged with fiber-optic cable,
  especially in the larger cities; mobile cellular capability has been
  added

  international:  three international exchanges (one in Bratislava and
  two in Banska Bystrica) are available; Slovakia is participating in
  several international telecommunications projects that will increase
  the availability of external services

Slovenia:
  general assessment:  NA

  domestic:  100% digital (2000)

  international:  NA

Solomon Islands:
  general assessment:  NA

  domestic:  NA

  international:  satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (Pacific Ocean)

Somalia:
  general assessment:  the public telecommunications system
  was completely destroyed or dismantled by the civil war factions;
  all relief organizations depend on their own private systems

  domestic:  recently, local cellular telephone systems have been
  established in Mogadishu and in several other population centers

  international:  international connections are available from
  Mogadishu by satellite

South Africa:
  general assessment:  the system is the best developed
  and most modern in Africa

  domestic:  consists of carrier-equipped open-wire lines, coaxial
  cables, microwave radio relay links, fiber-optic cable,
  radiotelephone communication stations, and wireless local loops; key
  centers are Bloemfontein, Cape Town, Durban, Johannesburg, Port
  Elizabeth, and Pretoria

  international:  2 submarine cables; satellite earth stations - 3
  Intelsat (1 Indian Ocean and 2 Atlantic Ocean)

South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands:
  general assessment:  NA

  domestic:  NA

  international:  coastal radiotelephone station at Grytviken

Spain:
  general assessment:  generally adequate, modern facilities;
  teledensity is 44 main lines for each 100 persons

  domestic:  NA

  international:  22 coaxial submarine cables; satellite earth
  stations - 2 Intelsat (1 Atlantic Ocean and 1 Indian Ocean), NA
  Eutelsat; tropospheric scatter to adjacent countries

Sri Lanka:
  general assessment:  very inadequate domestic service,
  particularly in rural areas; some hope for improvement with
  privatization of national telephone company and encouragement to
  private investment; good international service (1999)

  domestic:  national trunk network consists mostly of digital
  microwave radio relay; fiber-optic links now in use in Colombo area
  and two fixed wireless local loops have been installed; competition
  is strong in mobile cellular systems; telephone density remains low
  at 2.6 main lines per 100 persons (1999)

  international:  submarine cables to Indonesia and Djibouti;
  satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat (Indian Ocean) (1999)

Sudan:
  general assessment:  large, well-equipped system by regional
  standards and being upgraded; cellular communications started in
  1996 and have expanded substantially

  domestic:  consists of microwave radio relay, cable, radiotelephone
  communications, tropospheric scatter, and a domestic satellite
  system with 14 earth stations

  international:  satellite earth stations - 1 Intelsat (Atlantic
  Ocean) and 1 Arabsat (2000)

Suriname:
  general assessment:  international facilities are good

  domestic:  microwave radio relay network

  international:  satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat (Atlantic
  Ocean)

Svalbard:
  general assessment:  probably adequate

  domestic:  local telephone service

  international:  satellite earth station - 1 of unknown type (for
  communication with Norwegian mainland only)

Swaziland:
  general assessment:  not a modern system

  domestic:  system consists of carrier-equipped, open-wire lines and
  low-capacity, microwave radio relay

  international:  satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean)

Sweden:
  general assessment:  excellent domestic and international
  facilities; automatic system

  domestic:  coaxial and multiconductor cables carry most of the voice
  traffic; parallel microwave radio relay systems carry some
  additional telephone channels

  international:  5 submarine coaxial cables; satellite earth stations
  - 1 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean), 1 Eutelsat, and 1 Inmarsat (Atlantic
  and Indian Ocean regions); note - Sweden shares the Inmarsat earth
  station with the other Nordic countries (Denmark, Finland, Iceland,
  and Norway)

Switzerland:
  general assessment:  excellent domestic and
  international services

  domestic:  extensive cable and microwave radio relay networks

  international:  satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat (Atlantic
  Ocean and Indian Ocean)

Syria:
  general assessment:  fair system currently undergoing
  significant improvement and digital upgrades, including fiber-optic
  technology

  domestic:  coaxial cable and microwave radio relay network

  international:  satellite earth stations - 1 Intelsat (Indian Ocean)
  and 1 Intersputnik (Atlantic Ocean region); 1 submarine cable;
  coaxial cable and microwave radio relay to Iraq, Jordan, Lebanon,
  and Turkey; participant in Medarabtel

Tajikistan:
  general assessment:  poorly developed and not well
  maintained; many towns are not reached by the national network

  domestic:  cable and microwave radio relay

  international:  linked by cable and microwave radio relay to other
  CIS republics and by leased connections to the Moscow international
  gateway switch; Dushanbe linked by Intelsat to international gateway
  switch in Ankara (Turkey); satellite earth stations - 1 Orbita and 2
  Intelsat

Tanzania:
  general assessment:  fair system operating below capacity
  and being modernized for better service; VSAT (very small aperture
  terminal) system under construction

  domestic:  trunk service provided by open wire, microwave radio
  relay, tropospheric scatter, and fiber-optic cable; some links being
  made digital

  international:  satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat (1 Indian
  Ocean and 1 Atlantic Ocean)

Thailand:
  general assessment:  service to general public adequate,
  but investment in technological upgrades reduced by recession; bulk
  of service to government activities provided by multichannel cable
  and microwave radio relay network

  domestic:  microwave radio relay and multichannel cable; domestic
  satellite system being developed

  international:  satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat (1 Indian
  Ocean and 1 Pacific Ocean)

Togo:
  general assessment:  fair system based on a network of
  microwave radio relay routes supplemented by open-wire lines and a
  mobile cellular system

  domestic:  microwave radio relay and open-wire lines for
  conventional system; cellular system has capacity of 10,000
  telephones

  international:  satellite earth stations - 1 Intelsat (Atlantic
  Ocean) and 1 Symphonie

Tokelau:
  general assessment:  adequate

  domestic:  radiotelephone service between islands

  international:  radiotelephone service to Samoa;
  government-regulated telephone service (TeleTok), with 3 satellite
  earth stations, established in 1997

Tonga:
  general assessment:  NA

  domestic:  NA

  international:  satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (Pacific Ocean)

Trinidad and Tobago:
  general assessment:  excellent international
  service; good local service

  domestic:  NA

  international:  satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (Atlantic
  Ocean); tropospheric scatter to Barbados and Guyana

Tunisia:
  general assessment:  above the African average and
  continuing to be upgraded; key centers are Sfax, Sousse, Bizerte,
  and Tunis; Internet access available

  domestic:  trunk facilities consist of open-wire lines, coaxial
  cable, and microwave radio relay

  international:  5 submarine cables; satellite earth stations - 1
  Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean) and 1 Arabsat; coaxial cable and microwave
  radio relay to Algeria and Libya; participant in Medarabtel; two
  international gateway digital switches

Turkey:
  general assessment:  undergoing rapid modernization and
  expansion, especially cellular telephones

  domestic:  additional digital exchanges are permitting a rapid
  increase in subscribers; the construction of a network of
  technologically advanced intercity trunk lines, using both
  fiber-optic cable and digital microwave radio relay is facilitating
  communication between urban centers; remote areas are reached by a
  domestic satellite system; the number of subscribers to mobile
  cellular telephone service is growing rapidly

  international:  international service is provided by three submarine
  fiber-optic cables in the Mediterranean and Black Seas, linking
  Turkey with Italy, Greece, Israel, Bulgaria, Romania, and Russia, by
  12 Intelsat earth stations, and by 328 mobile satellite terminals in
  the Inmarsat and Eutelsat systems

Turkmenistan:
  general assessment:  poorly developed

  domestic:  NA

  international:  linked by cable and microwave radio relay to other
  CIS republics and to other countries by leased connections to the
  Moscow international gateway switch; a new telephone link from
  Ashgabat to Iran has been established; a new exchange in Ashgabat
  switches international traffic through Turkey via Intelsat;
  satellite earth stations - 1 Orbita and 1 Intelsat

Turks and Caicos Islands:
  general assessment:  fair cable and
  radiotelephone services

  domestic:  NA

  international:  2 submarine cables; satellite earth station - 1
  Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean)

Tuvalu:
  general assessment:  serves particular needs for internal
  communications

  domestic:  radiotelephone communications between islands

  international:  NA

Uganda:
  general assessment:  seriously inadequate; two cellular
  systems have been introduced, but a sharp increase in the number of
  main lines is essential; e-mail and Internet services are available

  domestic:  intercity traffic by wire, microwave radio relay, and
  radiotelephone communication stations, fixed and mobile cellular
  systems for short range traffic

  international:  satellite earth stations - 1 Intelsat (Atlantic
  Ocean) and 1 Inmarsat; analog links to Kenya and Tanzania

Ukraine:
  general assessment:  Ukraine's telecommunication
  development plan, running through 2005, emphasizes improving
  domestic trunk lines, international connections, and the mobile
  cellular system

  domestic:  at independence in December 1991, Ukraine inherited a
  telephone system that was antiquated, inefficient, and in disrepair;
  more than 3.5 million applications for telephones could not be
  satisfied; telephone density is now rising slowly and the domestic
  trunk system is being improved; the mobile cellular telephone system
  is expanding at a high rate

  international:  two new domestic trunk lines are a part of the
  fiber-optic Trans-Asia-Europe (TAE) system and three Ukrainian links
  have been installed in the fiber-optic Trans-European Lines (TEL)
  project which connects 18 countries; additional international
  service is provided by the Italy-Turkey-Ukraine-Russia (ITUR)
  fiber-optic submarine cable and by earth stations in the Intelsat,
  Inmarsat, and Intersputnik satellite systems

United Arab Emirates:
  general assessment:  modern system consisting
  of microwave radio relay and coaxial cable; key centers are Abu
  Dhabi and Dubai

  domestic:  microwave radio relay and coaxial cable

  international:  satellite earth stations - 3 Intelsat (1 Atlantic
  Ocean and 2 Indian Ocean) and 1 Arabsat; submarine cables to Qatar,
  Bahrain, India, and Pakistan; tropospheric scatter to Bahrain;
  microwave radio relay to Saudi Arabia

United Kingdom:
  general assessment:  technologically advanced
  domestic and international system

  domestic:  equal mix of buried cables, microwave radio relay, and
  fiber-optic systems

  international:  40 coaxial submarine cables; satellite earth
  stations - 10 Intelsat (7 Atlantic Ocean and 3 Indian Ocean), 1
  Inmarsat (Atlantic Ocean region), and 1 Eutelsat; at least 8 large
  international switching centers

United States:
  general assessment:  a very large, technologically
  advanced, multipurpose communications system

  domestic:  a large system of fiber-optic cable, microwave radio
  relay, coaxial cable, and domestic satellites carries every form of
  telephone traffic; a rapidly growing cellular system carries mobile
  telephone traffic throughout the country

  international:  24 ocean cable systems in use; satellite earth
  stations - 61 Intelsat (45 Atlantic Ocean and 16 Pacific Ocean), 5
  Intersputnik (Atlantic Ocean region), and 4 Inmarsat (Pacific and
  Atlantic Ocean regions) (2000)

Uruguay:
  general assessment:  some modern facilities

  domestic:  most modern facilities concentrated in Montevideo; new
  nationwide microwave radio relay network

  international:  satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat (Atlantic
  Ocean)

Uzbekistan:
  general assessment:  antiquated and inadequate; in
  serious need of modernization

  domestic:  the domestic telephone system is being expanded and
  technologically improved, particularly in Tashkent and Samarqand,
  under contracts with prominent companies in industrialized
  countries; moreover, by 1998, six cellular networks had been placed
  in operation - four of the GSM type (Global System for Mobile
  Communication), one D-AMPS type (Digital Advanced Mobile Phone
  System), and one AMPS type (Advanced Mobile Phone System)

  international:  linked by landline or microwave radio relay with CIS
  member states and to other countries by leased connection via the
  Moscow international gateway switch; after the completion of the
  Uzbek link to the Trans-Asia-Europe (TAE) fiber-optic cable,
  Uzbekistan will be independent of Russian facilities for
  international communications; Inmarsat also provides an
  international connection, albeit an expensive one; satellite earth
  stations - NA (1998)

Vanuatu:
  general assessment:  NA

  domestic:  NA

  international:  satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (Pacific Ocean)

Venezuela:
  general assessment:  modern and expanding

  domestic:  domestic satellite system with 3 earth stations; recent
  substantial improvement in telephone service in rural areas;
  substantial increase in digitalization of exchanges and trunk lines;
  installation of a national interurban fiber-optic network capable of
  digital multimedia services

  international:  3 submarine coaxial cables; satellite earth stations
  - 1 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean) and 1 PanAmSat; participating with
  Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, and Bolivia in the construction of an
  international fiber-optic network

Vietnam:
  general assessment:  Vietnam is putting considerable effort
  into modernization and expansion of its telecommunication system,
  but its performance continues to lag behind that of its more modern
  neighbors

  domestic:  all provincial exchanges are digitalized and connected to
  Hanoi, Da Nang, and Ho Chi Minh City by fiber-optic cable or
  microwave radio relay networks; since 1991, main lines in use have
  been substantially increased and the use of mobile telephones is
  growing rapidly

  international:  satellite earth stations - 2 Intersputnik (Indian
  Ocean region)

Virgin Islands:
  general assessment:  NA

  domestic:  modern, uses fiber-optic cable and microwave radio relay

  international:  submarine cable and satellite communications;
  satellite earth stations - NA

Wake Island:
  general assessment:  satellite communications; 1 DSN
  circuit off the Overseas Telephone System (OTS)

  domestic:  NA

  international:  NA

Wallis and Futuna:
  general assessment:  NA

  domestic:  NA

  international:  NA

West Bank:
  general assessment:  NA

  domestic:  NA

  international:  NA

  note:  Israeli company BEZEK and the Palestinian company PALTEL are
  responsible for communication services in the West Bank

Western Sahara:
  general assessment:  sparse and limited system

  domestic:  NA

  international:  tied into Morocco's system by microwave radio relay,
  tropospheric scatter, and satellite; satellite earth stations - 2
  Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean) linked to Rabat, Morocco

World:
  general assessment:  NA

  domestic:  NA

  international:  NA

Yemen:
  general assessment:  since unification in 1990, efforts have
  been made to create a national telecommunications network

  domestic:  the national network consists of microwave radio relay,
  cable, tropospheric scatter, and GSM cellular mobile telephone
  systems

  international:  satellite earth stations - 3 Intelsat (2 Indian
  Ocean and 1 Atlantic Ocean), 1 Intersputnik (Atlantic Ocean region),
  and 2 Arabsat; microwave radio relay to Saudi Arabia and Djibouti

Yugoslavia:
  general assessment:  NA

  domestic:  NA

  international:  satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean)

Zambia:
  general assessment:  facilities are among the best in
  Sub-Saharan Africa

  domestic:  high-capacity microwave radio relay connects most larger
  towns and cities; several cellular telephone services in operation;
  Internet service is widely available; very small aperture terminal
  (VSAT) networks are operated by private firms

  international:  satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat (1 Indian
  Ocean and 1 Atlantic Ocean)

Zimbabwe:
  general assessment:  system was once one of the best in
  Africa, but now suffers from poor maintenance; more than 100,000
  outstanding requests for connection despite an equally large number
  of installed but unused main lines

  domestic:  consists of microwave radio relay links, open-wire lines,
  radiotelephone communication stations, fixed wireless local loop
  installations, and a substantial mobile cellular network; Internet
  connection is available in Harare and planned for all major towns
  and for some of the smaller ones

  international:  satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat; two
  international digital gateway exchanges (in Harare and Gweru)

Taiwan:
  general assessment:  provides telecommunications service for
  every business and private need

  domestic:  thoroughly modern; completely digitalized

  international:  satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat (1 Pacific
  Ocean and 1 Indian Ocean); submarine cables to Japan (Okinawa),
  Philippines, Guam, Singapore, Hong Kong, Indonesia, Australia,
  Middle East, and Western Europe (1999)

======================================================================

@Telephones - main lines in use



Afghanistan:
  29,000 (1996)

  note:  there were 21,000 main lines in service in Kabul in 1998

Albania:
  87,000 (1997)

Algeria:
  2.3 million (1998)

American Samoa:
  13,000 (1997)

Andorra:
  32,946 (December 1998)

Angola:
  62,000 (1997)

Anguilla:
  5,000 (1997)

Antarctica:
  0

  note:  information for US bases only (2001)

Antigua and Barbuda:
  28,000 (1996)

Argentina:
  7.5 million (1998)

Armenia:
  568,000 (1997)

Aruba:
  33,000 (1997)

Australia:
  9.58 million (1998)

Austria:
  4 million (3,600,000 analog main lines plus 400,000 ISDN or
  Integrated Services Digital Network connections) (1999)

Azerbaijan:
  663,000 (1997)

Bahamas, The:
  96,000 (1997)

Bahrain:
  152,000 (1997)

Bangladesh:
  500,000 (2000)

Barbados:
  108,000 (1997)

Belarus:
  2.313 million (1997)

Belgium:
  4.769 million (1997)

Belize:
  31,000 (1997)

Benin:
  36,000 (1997)

Bermuda:
  52,000 (1997)

Bhutan:
  6,000 (1997)

Bolivia:
  327,600 (1996)

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  303,000 (1997)

Botswana:
  86,000 (1997)

Brazil:
  17.039 million (1997)

British Indian Ocean Territory:
  NA

British Virgin Islands:
  10,000 (1996)

Brunei:
  79,000 (1996)

Bulgaria:
  3.255 million (2000)

Burkina Faso:
  36,000 (1997)

Burma:
  250,000 (2000)

Burundi:
  16,000 (1997)

Cambodia:
  21,800 (mid-1998)

Cameroon:
  75,000 (1997)

Canada:
  18.5 million (1999)

Cape Verde:
  45,644 (2000)

Cayman Islands:
  19,000 (1995)

Central African Republic:
  10,000 (1997)

Chad:
  7,000 (1997)

Chile:
  2.603 million (1998)

China:
  135 million (2000)

Christmas Island:
  NA

Cocos (Keeling) Islands:
  NA (1999)

Colombia:
  5,433,565 (December 1997)

Comoros:
  6,000 (1997)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  21,000 (1997)

Congo, Republic of the:
  22,000 (1997)

Cook Islands:
  5,000 (1997)

Costa Rica:
  450,000 (1998)

  note:  584,000 installed in 1997, but only about 450,000 were in use
  1998

Cote d'Ivoire:
  219,283 (31 December 1999)

Croatia:
  1.488 million (1997)

Cuba:
  473,031 (2000)

Cyprus:
  Greek Cypriot area: 405,000 (1998); Turkish Cypriot area:
  83,162 (1998)

Czech Republic:
  3.869 million (2000)

Denmark:
  4.785 million (1997)

Djibouti:
  8,000 (1997)

Dominica:
  19,000 (1996)

Dominican Republic:
  709,000 (1997)

Ecuador:
  899,000 (1997)

Egypt:
  3,971,500 (December 1998)

El Salvador:
  380,000 (1998)

Equatorial Guinea:
  4,000 (1996)

Eritrea:
  23,578 (2000)

Estonia:
  476,078 (yearend 1998)

Ethiopia:
  157,000 (1997)

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas):
  NA

Faroe Islands:
  24,851 (1999)

Fiji:
  72,000 (1997)

Finland:
  2.861 million (1997)

France:
  34.86 million (yearend 1998)

French Guiana:
  47,000 (1997)

French Polynesia:
  52,000 (1997)

Gabon:
  37,000 (1997)

Gambia, The:
  31,900 (2000)

Gaza Strip:
  95,729 (total for Gaza Strip and West Bank) (1997)

Georgia:
  620,000 (1997)

Germany:
  45.2 million (1997)

  note:  46.5 million main lines were installed by yearend 1998

Ghana:
  200,000 (1998)

Gibraltar:
  19,000 (1997)

Greece:
  5.431 million (1997)

Greenland:
  25,617 (end 1999)

Grenada:
  27,000 (1997)

Guadeloupe:
  171,000 (1996)

Guam:
  84,134 (1998)

Guatemala:
  665,061 (June 2000)

Guernsey:
  44,000 (1996)

Guinea:
  20,000 (1997)

Guinea-Bissau:
  8,000 (1997)

Guyana:
  70,000 (2000)

Haiti:
  60,000 (1997)

Holy See (Vatican City):
  NA

Honduras:
  234,000 (1997)

Hong Kong:
  3.839 million (1999)

Hungary:
  3.095 million (1997)

Iceland:
  168,000 (1997)

India:
  27.7 million (October 2000)

Indonesia:
  5,588,310 (1998)

Iran:
  6.313 million (1997)

Iraq:
  675,000 (1997)

Ireland:
  1.59 million (2001)

Israel:
  2.8 million (1999)

Italy:
  25 million (1999)

Jamaica:
  353,000 (1996)

Japan:
  60.381 million (1997)

Jersey:
  65,500 (1997)

Jordan:
  403,000 (1997)

Kazakhstan:
  1.818 million (1997)

Kenya:
  290,000 (1998)

Kiribati:
  2,000 (1997)

Korea, North:
  1.1 million (1997)

Korea, South:
  24 million (1999)

Kuwait:
  412,000 (1997)

Kyrgyzstan:
  351,000 (1997)

Laos:
  25,000 (1997)

Latvia:
  748,000 (1997)

Lebanon:
  700,000 (1999)

Lesotho:
  20,000 (1997)

Liberia:
  6,000 (1997)

Libya:
  380,000 (1996)

Liechtenstein:
  20,000 (1997)

Lithuania:
  1.048 million (1997)

Luxembourg:
  314,700 (1999)

Macau:
  176,837 (2000)

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  408,000 (1997)

Madagascar:
  43,000 (1997)

Malawi:
  37,000 (1997)

Malaysia:
  4.5 million (1999)

Maldives:
  21,000 (1999)

Mali:
  23,000 (1997)

Malta:
  187,000 (1997)

Man, Isle of:
  51,000 (1999)

Marshall Islands:
  3,000 (1996)

Martinique:
  170,000 (1997)

Mauritania:
  26,000 (2000)

Mauritius:
  223,000 (1997)

Mayotte:
  9,314 (1997)

Mexico:
  9.6 million (1998)

Micronesia, Federated States of:
  11,000 (2001)

Moldova:
  627,000 (1997)

Monaco:
  31,027 (1995)

Mongolia:
  104,100 (1999)

Montserrat:
  4,000 (1997)

Morocco:
  1.391 million (1998)

Mozambique:
  65,354 (2000)

Namibia:
  100,848 (1997)

Nauru:
  2,000 (1996)

Nepal:
  236,816 (January 2000)

Netherlands:
  9,132,400 (1999)

Netherlands Antilles:
  76,000 (1995)

New Caledonia:
  47,000 (1997)

New Zealand:
  1.84 million (1997)

Nicaragua:
  140,000 (1996)

Niger:
  16,000 (1997)

Nigeria:
  500,000 (2000)

Niue:
  376 (1991)

Norfolk Island:
  1,087 (1983)

Northern Mariana Islands:
  21,000 (1996)

Norway:
  2.735 million (1998)

Oman:
  201,000 (1997)

Pakistan:
  2.861 million (March 1999)

Palau:
  1,500 (1988)

Panama:
  396,000 (1997)

Papua New Guinea:
  47,000 (1996)

Paraguay:
  290,475 (2001)

Peru:
  1.509 million (1998)

Philippines:
  1.9 million (1997)

Pitcairn Islands:
  1 (there are 17 telephones on one party line)
  (1997)

Poland:
  8.07 million (1998)

Portugal:
  5.3 million (end 1998)

Puerto Rico:
  1.322 million (1997)

Qatar:
  142,000 (1997)

Reunion:
  236,500 (1997)

Romania:
  3.777 million (1997)

Russia:
  30 million (1998)

Rwanda:
  15,000 (1995)

Saint Helena:
  2,000 (1997)

Saint Kitts and Nevis:
  17,000 (1997)

Saint Lucia:
  37,000 (1997)

Saint Pierre and Miquelon:
  4,000 (1997)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:
  20,500 (1998)

Samoa:
  8,000 (1997)

San Marino:
  18,000 (1998)

Sao Tome and Principe:
  3,000 (1997)

Saudi Arabia:
  3.1 million (1998)

Senegal:
  116,000 (1997)

Seychelles:
  19,635 (1997)

Sierra Leone:
  17,000 (1997)

Singapore:
  1.928 million (November 2000)

Slovakia:
  1,934,558 (1998)

Slovenia:
  722,000 (1997)

Solomon Islands:
  8,000 (1997)

Somalia:
  NA

South Africa:
  5.075 million (1999)

Spain:
  17.336 million (1999)

Sri Lanka:
  494,509 (1998)

Sudan:
  400,000 (2000)

Suriname:
  64,000 (1997)

Svalbard:
  NA

Swaziland:
  33,500 (2000)

Sweden:
  6.017 million (December 1998)

Switzerland:
  4.82 million (1998)

Syria:
  1.313 million (1997)

Tajikistan:
  363,000 (1997)

Tanzania:
  127,000 (1998)

Thailand:
  5.4 million (1998)

Togo:
  25,000 (1997)

Tokelau:
  NA

Tonga:
  8,000 (1996)

Trinidad and Tobago:
  243,000 (1997)

Tunisia:
  654,000 (1997)

Turkey:
  19.5 million (1999)

Turkmenistan:
  363,000 (1997)

Turks and Caicos Islands:
  3,000 (1994)

Tuvalu:
  1,000 (1997)

Uganda:
  50,074; however, 80,868 main lines were installed (1998)

Ukraine:
  9.45 million (April 1999)

United Arab Emirates:
  915,223 (1998)

United Kingdom:
  34.878 million (1997)

United States:
  194 million (1997)

Uruguay:
  850,000 (2000)

Uzbekistan:
  1.98 million (1999)

Vanuatu:
  4,000 (1996)

Venezuela:
  2,600,000.00; however, 3,500,000 were installed (1998)

Vietnam:
  2.6 million (2000)

Virgin Islands:
  62,000 (1997)

Wallis and Futuna:
  1,125 (1994)

West Bank:
  95,729 (total for West Bank and Gaza Strip) (1997)

Western Sahara:
  about 2,000 (1999 est.)

World:
  NA

Yemen:
  291,359 (1999)

Yugoslavia:
  2.017 million (1995)

Zambia:
  77,935 (in addition there are about 40,000 fixed telephones
  in wireless local loop connections) (1997)

Zimbabwe:
  212,000 (in addition there are about 20,000 fixed
  telephones in wireless local loop connections) (1997)

Taiwan:
  12.49 million (September 2000)

======================================================================

@Telephones - mobile cellular



Afghanistan:
  NA

Albania:
  3,100 (1999)

Algeria:
  33,500 (1999)

American Samoa:
  2,550 (1997)

Andorra:
  14,117 (December 1998)

Angola:
  7,052 (1997)

Anguilla:
  NA

Antarctica:
  NA

Antigua and Barbuda:
  1,300 (1996)

Argentina:
  3 million (December 1999)

Armenia:
  6,220 (1997)

Aruba:
  3,402 (1997)

Australia:
  6.4 million (1998)

Austria:
  4.5 million (2000)

Azerbaijan:
  40,000 (1997)

Bahamas, The:
  6,152 (1997)

Bahrain:
  58,543 (1997)

Bangladesh:
  283,000 (2000)

Barbados:
  8,013 (1997)

Belarus:
  8,167 (1997)

Belgium:
  974,494 (1997)

Belize:
  3,023 (1997)

Benin:
  4,295 (1997)

Bermuda:
  7,980 (1996)

Bhutan:
  NA

Bolivia:
  116,000 (1997)

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  9,000 (1997)

Botswana:
  NA

Brazil:
  4.4 million (1997)

British Virgin Islands:
  NA

Brunei:
  43,524 (1996)

Bulgaria:
  596,000 (2000)

Burkina Faso:
  1,503 (1997)

Burma:
  8,492 (1997)

Burundi:
  619 (1997)

Cambodia:
  80,000 (2000)

Cameroon:
  4,200 (1997)

Canada:
  4.207 million (1997)

Cape Verde:
  19,729 (1997)

Cayman Islands:
  2,534 (1995)

Central African Republic:
  570 (1997)

Chad:
  NA

Chile:
  944,225 (1998)

China:
  65 million (January 2001)

Christmas Island:
  0 (1999)

Cocos (Keeling) Islands:
  0 (1999)

Colombia:
  1,800,229 (December 1998)

Comoros:
  NA

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  8,900 (1997)

Congo, Republic of the:
  1,000 (1996)

Cook Islands:
  0 (1994)

Costa Rica:
  143,000 (2000)

Cote d'Ivoire:
  322,500 (May 2000)

Croatia:
  187,000 (yearend 1998)

Cuba:
  2,994 (1997)

Cyprus:
  Greek Cypriot area: 68,000 (1998); Turkish Cypriot area:
  70,000 (1999)

Czech Republic:
  4.346 million (2000)

Denmark:
  1,444,016 (1997)

Djibouti:
  203 (1997)

Dominica:
  461 (1996)

Dominican Republic:
  130,149 (1997)

Ecuador:
  160,061 (1997)

Egypt:
  380,000 (1999)

El Salvador:
  40,163 (1997)

Equatorial Guinea:
  NA

Eritrea:
  NA

Estonia:
  475,000 (yearend 2000)

Ethiopia:
  4,000 (1999)

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas):
  NA

Faroe Islands:
  10,761 (1999)

Fiji:
  5,200 (1997)

Finland:
  2,162,574 (1997)

France:
  11.078 million (yearend 1998)

French Guiana:
  NA

French Polynesia:
  5,427 (1997)

Gabon:
  9,500 (1997)

Gambia, The:
  5,624 (2000)

Gaza Strip:
  NA

Georgia:
  30,000 (1997)

Germany:
  15.318 million (April 1999)

Ghana:
  30,000 (yearend 1998)

Gibraltar:
  1,620 (1997)

Greece:
  937,700 (1997)

Greenland:
  12,676 (end 1999)

Grenada:
  976 (1997)

Guadeloupe:
  NA

Guam:
  55,000 (1998)

Guatemala:
  663,296 (September 2000)

Guernsey:
  12,000 (1997)

Guinea:
  2,868 (1997)

Guinea-Bissau:
  NA

Guyana:
  6,100 (2000)

Haiti:
  0 (1995)

Holy See (Vatican City):
  NA

Honduras:
  14,427 (1997)

Hong Kong:
  3.7 million (December 1999)

Hungary:
  1.269 million (July 1999)

Iceland:
  65,746 (1997)

India:
  2.93 million (November 2000)

Indonesia:
  1.07 million (1998)

Iran:
  265,000 (August 1998)

Iraq:
  NA; service available in northern Iraq (2001)

Ireland:
  2 million (2001)

Israel:
  2.5 million (1999)

Italy:
  20.5 million (1999)

Jamaica:
  54,640 (1996)

Japan:
  63.88 million (2000)

Jersey:
  4,400 (1997)

Jordan:
  11,500 (1995)

Kazakhstan:
  11,202 (1997)

Kenya:
  5,345 (1997)

Kiribati:
  NA

Korea, North:
  NA

Korea, South:
  27 million (June 2000)

Kuwait:
  210,000 (1997)

Kyrgyzstan:
  NA

Laos:
  4,915 (1997)

Latvia:
  77,100 (1997)

Lebanon:
  580,000 (1999)

Lesotho:
  1,262 (1996)

Liberia:
  0 (1995)

Libya:
  NA

Liechtenstein:
  NA

Lithuania:
  297,500 (November 1998)

Luxembourg:
  215,741 (2000)

Macau:
  120,957 (2000)

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  12,362 (1997)

Madagascar:
  4,000 (1997)

Malawi:
  7,000 (1997)

Malaysia:
  2.698 million (1999)

Maldives:
  1,290 (1997)

Mali:
  2,842 (1997)

Malta:
  17,691 (1997)

Man, Isle of:
  NA

Marshall Islands:
  365 (1996)

Martinique:
  15,000 (1997)

Mauritania:
  NA

Mauritius:
  37,000 (1997)

Mayotte:
  0 (2000)

Mexico:
  2.02 million (1998)

Micronesia, Federated States of:
  NA

Moldova:
  2,200 (1997)

Monaco:
  NA

Mongolia:
  110,000 (2001)

Montserrat:
  70 (1994)

Morocco:
  116,645 (1998)

Mozambique:
  18,500 (2000)

Namibia:
  NA

Nauru:
  450 (1994)

Nepal:
  NA

Netherlands:
  4,081,891 (April 1999)

Netherlands Antilles:
  13,977 (1996)

New Caledonia:
  13,040 (1998)

New Zealand:
  588,000 (1998)

Nicaragua:
  7,911 (1997)

Niger:
  13,000 (1995)

Nigeria:
  26,700 (1997)

Niue:
  0 (1991)

Norfolk Island:
  0 (1983)

Northern Mariana Islands:
  1,200 (1995)

Norway:
  2,080,408 (1998)

Oman:
  59,822 (1997)

Pakistan:
  158,000 (1998)

Palau:
  0 (1988)

Panama:
  17,000 (1997)

Papua New Guinea:
  3,053 (1996)

Paraguay:
  510,000 (2001)

Peru:
  504,995 (1998)

Philippines:
  1.959 million (1998)

Poland:
  1.78 million (1998)

Portugal:
  3,074,194 (1999)

Puerto Rico:
  169,265 (1996)

Qatar:
  43,476 (1997)

Reunion:
  85,000 (1999)

Romania:
  645,500 (1999)

Russia:
  2.5 million (October 2000)

Rwanda:
  NA

  note:  however, Rwanda has mobile cellular service between Kigali
  and several prefecture capitals (2000)

Saint Helena:
  0 (1997)

Saint Kitts and Nevis:
  205 (1997)

Saint Lucia:
  1,600 (1997)

Saint Pierre and Miquelon:
  0 (1994)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:
  NA

Samoa:
  1,545 (February 1998)

San Marino:
  3,010 (1998)

Sao Tome and Principe:
  6,942 (1997)

Saudi Arabia:
  1 million

  note:  in 1998, the government contracted for the installation of
  575,000 additional Group Speciale Mobile (GSM) cellular telephone
  lines over 15 months to raise the total number of subscribers to
  more than one million; Riyadh planned to further expand the GSM
  system in 1999 by adding an additional one million lines (1998)

Senegal:
  1,149 (1996)

Seychelles:
  16,316 (1999)

Sierra Leone:
  650 (1999)

Singapore:
  2.333 million (November 2000)

Slovakia:
  736,662 (April 1999)

Slovenia:
  1 million (2000)

Solomon Islands:
  658 (1997)

Somalia:
  NA

South Africa:
  over 2,000,000 (1999)

Spain:
  8.394 million (1999)

Sri Lanka:
  228,604 (1999)

Sudan:
  20,000 (2000)

Suriname:
  4,090 (1997)

Svalbard:
  NA

Swaziland:
  30,000 (2000)

Sweden:
  3.835 million (October 1998)

Switzerland:
  1.967 million (1999)

Syria:
  NA

Tajikistan:
  2,500 (1997)

Tanzania:
  30,000 (1999)

Thailand:
  2.3 million (1998)

Togo:
  2,995 (1997)

Tokelau:
  0 (2001)

Tonga:
  302 (1996)

Trinidad and Tobago:
  17,411 (1997)

Tunisia:
  50,000 (1998)

Turkey:
  12.1 million (1999)

Turkmenistan:
  4,300 (1998)

Turks and Caicos Islands:
  0 (1994)

Tuvalu:
  0 (1994)

Uganda:
  9,000 (1998)

Ukraine:
  236,000 (1998)

United Arab Emirates:
  1 million (1999)

United Kingdom:
  13 million (yearend 1998)

United States:
  69.209 million (1998)

Uruguay:
  300,000 (2000)

Uzbekistan:
  26,000 (1998)

Vanuatu:
  154 (1996)

Venezuela:
  2 million (1998)

Vietnam:
  730,155 (2000)

Virgin Islands:
  2,000 (1992)

Wallis and Futuna:
  0 (1994)

West Bank:
  NA

Western Sahara:
  0 (1999)

World:
  NA

Yemen:
  32,042 (2000)

Yugoslavia:
  87,000 (1997)

Zambia:
  6,000 (1998)

Zimbabwe:
  70,000 (1999)

Taiwan:
  16 million (September 2000)

======================================================================

@Television broadcast stations



Afghanistan:
  at least 10 (one government run central television
  station in Kabul and regional stations in nine of the 30 provinces;
  the regional stations operate on a reduced schedule; also, in 1997,
  there was a station in Mazar-e Sharif reaching four northern
  Afghanistan provinces) (1998)

Albania:
  9 (plus 264 repeaters) (1995)

Algeria:
  46 (plus 216 repeaters) (1995)

American Samoa:
  1 (1997)

Andorra:
  0 (1997)

Angola:
  7 (1999)

Anguilla:
  1 (1997)

Antarctica:
  1 (the US Navy Antarctic Support Group operates a cable
  system with six channels for the American Forces Antarctic
  Network-McMurdo)

  note:  information for US bases only (2000)

Antigua and Barbuda:
  2 (1997)

Argentina:
  42 (plus 444 repeaters) (1997)

Armenia:
  4 (1998)

Aruba:
  1 (1997)

Australia:
  104 (1997)

Austria:
  45 (plus 960 repeaters) (1995)

Azerbaijan:
  2 (1997)

Bahamas, The:
  1 (1997)

Bahrain:
  4 (1997)

Bangladesh:
  15 (1999)

Barbados:
  1 (plus two cable channels) (1997)

Belarus:
  47 (plus 27 repeaters) (1995)

Belgium:
  25 (plus 10 repeaters) (1997)

Belize:
  2 (1997)

Benin:
  2 (one privately-owned) (1997)

Bermuda:
  3 (1997)

Bhutan:
  0 (1997)

Bolivia:
  48 (1997)

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  33 (plus 277 repeaters) (September 1995)

Botswana:
  0 (1997)

Brazil:
  138 (1997)

British Indian Ocean Territory:
  1 (1997)

British Virgin Islands:
  1 (plus one cable company) (1997)

Brunei:
  2 (1997)

Bulgaria:
  96 (plus 1,030 repeaters) (1995)

Burkina Faso:
  1 (1997)

Burma:
  2 (1998)

Burundi:
  1 (1999)

Cambodia:
  5 (1999)

Cameroon:
  1 (1998)

Canada:
  80 (plus many repeaters) (1997)

Cape Verde:
  1 (1997)

Cayman Islands:
  NA

Central African Republic:
  NA

Chad:
  1 (1997)

Chile:
  63 (plus 121 repeaters) (1997)

China:
  3,240 (of which 209 are operated by China Central Television,
  31 are provincial TV stations and nearly 3,000 are local city
  stations) (1997)

Christmas Island:
  NA

Cocos (Keeling) Islands:
  0 (1997)

Colombia:
  60 (includes seven low-power stations) (1997)

Comoros:
  0 (1998)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  20 (1999)

Congo, Republic of the:
  1 (1999)

Cook Islands:
  2 (plus eight low-power repeaters) (1997)

Costa Rica:
  6 (plus 11 repeaters) (1997)

Cote d'Ivoire:
  14 (1999)

Croatia:
  36 (plus 321 repeaters) (September 1995)

Cuba:
  58 (1997)

Cyprus:
  Greek Cypriot area: 4 (plus 225 low-power repeaters)
  (September 1995); Turkish Cypriot area: 4 (plus 5 repeaters)
  (September 1995)

Czech Republic:
  150 (plus 1,434 repeaters) (2000)

Denmark:
  26 (plus 51 repeaters) (1998)

Djibouti:
  1 (plus 5 low-power repeaters) (1998)

Dominica:
  0 (however, there is one cable television company) (1997)

Dominican Republic:
  25 (1997)

Ecuador:
  15 (including one station on the Galapagos Islands) (1997)

Egypt:
  98 (September 1995)

El Salvador:
  5 (1997)

Equatorial Guinea:
  1 (1997)

Eritrea:
  1 (2000)

Estonia:
  31 (plus five repeaters) (September 1995)

Ethiopia:
  25 (1999)

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas):
  2 (operated by the British Forces
  Broadcasting Service) (1997)

Faroe Islands:
  3 (plus 43 low-power repeaters) (September 1995)

Fiji:
  NA

Finland:
  130 (plus 385 repeaters) (1995)

France:
  584 (plus 9,676 repeaters) (1995)

French Guiana:
  3 (plus eight low-power repeaters) (1997)

French Polynesia:
  7 (plus 17 low-power repeaters) (1997)

Gabon:
  4 (plus five low-power repeaters) (1997)

Gambia, The:
  1 (government-owned) (1997)

Gaza Strip:
  2 (operated by the Palestinian Broadcasting Corporation)
  (1997)

Georgia:
  12 (plus repeaters) (1998)

Germany:
  373 (plus 8,042 repeaters) (1995)

Ghana:
  11 (1999)

Gibraltar:
  1 (plus three low-power repeaters) (1997)

Greece:
  36 (plus 1,341 low-power repeaters); also two stations in
  the US Armed Forces Radio and Television Service (1995)

Greenland:
  1 publicly-owned station, some local low-power stations,
  and three AFRTS (US Air Force) stations (1997)

Grenada:
  2 (1997)

Guadeloupe:
  5 (plus several low-power repeaters) (1997)

Guam:
  5 (1997)

Guatemala:
  26 (plus 27 repeaters) (1997)

Guernsey:
  1 (1997)

Guinea:
  6 (1997)

Guinea-Bissau:
  2 (1997)

Guyana:
  3 (one public station; two private stations which relay US
  satellite services) (1997)

Haiti:
  2 (plus a cable TV service) (1997)

Holy See (Vatican City):
  1 (1996)

Honduras:
  11 (plus 17 repeaters) (1997)

Hong Kong:
  4 (plus two repeaters) (1997)

Hungary:
  35 (plus 161 low-power repeaters) (1995)

Iceland:
  14 (plus 156 low-power repeaters) (1997)

India:
  562 (of which 82 stations have 1 kW or greater power and 480
  stations have less than 1 kW of power) (1997)

Indonesia:
  41 (1999)

Iran:
  28 (plus 450 low-power repeaters) (1997)

Iraq:
  13 (1997)

Ireland:
  4 (many low-power repeaters) (2001)

Israel:
  17 (plus 36 low-power repeaters) (1995)

Italy:
  358 (plus 4,728 repeaters) (1995)

Jamaica:
  7 (1997)

Japan:
  7,108 (plus 441 repeaters; note - in addition, US Forces are
  served by 3 TV stations and 2 TV cable services) (1999)

Jersey:
  1 (1997)

Johnston Atoll:
  commercial satellite television system, with 16
  channels (1997)

Jordan:
  20 (plus 96 repeaters) (1995)

Kazakhstan:
  12 (plus nine repeaters) (1998)

Kenya:
  8 (1997)

Kiribati:
  1 (1997)

Korea, North:
  38 (1999)

Korea, South:
  121 (plus 850 repeater stations and the eight-channel
  American Forces Korea Network) (1999)

Kuwait:
  13 (plus several satellite channels) (1997)

Kyrgyzstan:
  NA (repeater stations throughout the country relay
  programs from Russia, Uzbekistan, Kazakhstan, and Turkey) (1997)

Laos:
  4 (1999)

Latvia:
  44 (plus 31 repeaters) (1995)

Lebanon:
  15 (plus 5 repeaters) (1995)

Lesotho:
  1 (2000)

Liberia:
  2 (plus four low-power repeaters) (2000)

Libya:
  12 (plus one low-power repeater) (1998)

Liechtenstein:
  NA (linked to Swiss networks) (1997)

Lithuania:
  20 (plus 30 repeaters) (1995)

Luxembourg:
  5 (1999)

Macau:
  0 (receives Hong Kong broadcasts) (1997)

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  31 (plus 166 repeaters)
  (1995)

Madagascar:
  1 (plus 36 repeaters) (1997)

Malawi:
  1 (1999)

Malaysia:
  27 (plus 15 high-power repeaters) (1999)

Maldives:
  1 (1997)

Mali:
  1 (plus two repeaters) (1997)

Malta:
  6 (2000)

Man, Isle of:
  0 (receives broadcasts from the UK and satellite)
  (1999)

Marshall Islands:
  3 (of which two are US military stations) (1997)

Martinique:
  11 (plus nine repeaters) (1997)

Mauritania:
  1 (1997)

Mauritius:
  2 (plus 11 repeaters) (1997)

Mayotte:
  3 (1997)

Mexico:
  236 (plus repeaters) (1997)

Micronesia, Federated States of:
  2 (1997)

Moldova:
  1 (plus 30 repeaters) (1995)

Monaco:
  5 (1998)

Mongolia:
  4 (plus 18 provincial repeaters and many low powered
  repeaters) (1999)

Montserrat:
  1 (1997)

Morocco:
  35 (plus 66 repeaters) (1995)

Mozambique:
  1 (2000)

Namibia:
  8 (plus about 20 low-power repeaters) (1997)

Nauru:
  1 (1997)

Nepal:
  1 (plus 9 repeaters) (1998)

Netherlands:
  21 (plus 26 repeaters) (1995)

Netherlands Antilles:
  3 (there is also a cable service which
  supplies programs received from various US satellite networks and
  two Venezuelan channels) (1997)

New Caledonia:
  6 (plus 25 low-power repeaters) (1997)

New Zealand:
  41 (plus 52 medium-power repeaters and over 650
  low-power repeaters) (1997)

Nicaragua:
  3 (plus seven low-power repeaters) (1997)

Niger:
  10 (plus seven low-power repeaters) (1997)

Nigeria:
  2 government-controlled; note - in addition, in 1993, 14
  licenses to operate private television stations were granted (1999)

Niue:
  1 (1997)

Norfolk Island:
  1 (local programming station plus two repeaters that
  bring in Australian programs by satellite) (1998)

Northern Mariana Islands:
  1 (on Saipan and one station planned for
  Rota; in addition, two cable services on Saipan provide varied
  programming from satellite networks) (1997)

Norway:
  360 (plus 2,729 repeaters) (1995)

Oman:
  13 (plus 25 low-power repeaters) (1999)

Pakistan:
  22 (plus seven low-power repeaters) (1997)

Palau:
  1 (1997)

Panama:
  38 (including repeaters) (1998)

Papua New Guinea:
  3 (1997)

Paraguay:
  4 (2001)

Peru:
  13 (plus 112 repeaters) (1997)

Philippines:
  31 (1997)

Pitcairn Islands:
  0 (1997)

Poland:
  179 (plus 256 repeaters) (September 1995)

Portugal:
  62 (plus 166 repeaters)

  note:  includes Azores and Madeira Islands (1995)

Puerto Rico:
  18 (plus three stations of the US Armed Forces Radio
  and Television Service) (1997)

Qatar:
  2 (plus three repeaters) (1997)

Reunion:
  22 (plus 18 low-power repeaters) (1997)

Romania:
  48 (plus 392 repeaters) (1995)

Russia:
  7,306 (1998)

Rwanda:
  2 (1997)

Saint Helena:
  0 (1997)

Saint Kitts and Nevis:
  1 (plus three repeaters) (1997)

Saint Lucia:
  3 (of which two are commercial stations and one is a
  community antenna television or CATV channel) (1997)

Saint Pierre and Miquelon:
  0 (there are, however, two repeaters
  which rebroadcast programs from France, Canada, and the US) (1997)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:
  1 (plus three repeaters) (1997)

Samoa:
  6 (1997)

San Marino:
  1 (San Marino residents also receive broadcasts from
  Italy) (1997)

Sao Tome and Principe:
  2 (1997)

Saudi Arabia:
  117 (1997)

Senegal:
  1 (1997)

Seychelles:
  2 (plus 9 repeaters) (1997)

Sierra Leone:
  2 (1999)

Singapore:
  6 (2000)

Slovakia:
  38 (plus 864 repeaters) (1995)

Slovenia:
  48 (2001)

Solomon Islands:
  0 (1997)

Somalia:
  1 (1997)

South Africa:
  556 (plus 144 network repeaters) (1997)

South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands:
  0 (1997)

Spain:
  224 (plus 2,105 repeaters)

  note:  these figures include 11 television broadcast stations and 88
  repeaters in the Canary Islands (1995)

Sri Lanka:
  21 (1997)

Sudan:
  3 (1997)

Suriname:
  3 (plus seven repeaters) (2000)

Svalbard:
  NA

Swaziland:
  10 (2000)

Sweden:
  169 (plus 1,299 repeaters) (1995)

Switzerland:
  115 (plus 1,919 repeaters) (1995)

Syria:
  44 (plus 17 repeaters) (1995)

Tajikistan:
  0 (there are, however, repeaters that relay programs
  from Russia, Iran, and Turkey) (1997)

Tanzania:
  3 (1999)

Thailand:
  5 (all in Bangkok; plus 131 repeaters) (1997)

Togo:
  3 (plus two repeaters) (1997)

Tokelau:
  NA

Tonga:
  1 (2001)

Trinidad and Tobago:
  4 (1997)

Tunisia:
  26 (plus 76 repeaters) (1995)

Turkey:
  635 (plus 2,934 repeaters) (1995)

Turkmenistan:
  3 (much programming relayed from Russia and Turkey)
  (1997)

Turks and Caicos Islands:
  0 (broadcasts from The Bahamas are
  received; cable television is established) (1997)

Tuvalu:
  0 (1997)

Uganda:
  8 (plus one low-power repeater) (1999)

Ukraine:
  at least 33 (plus 21 repeaters that relay broadcasts from
  Russia) (1997)

United Arab Emirates:
  15 (1997)

United Kingdom:
  228 (plus 3,523 repeaters) (1995)

United States:
  more than 1,500 (including nearly 1,000 stations
  affiliated with the five major networks - NBC, ABC, CBS, FOX, and
  PBS; in addition, there are about 9,000 cable TV systems) (1997)

Uruguay:
  26 (plus ten low-power repeaters for the Montevideo
  station) (1997)

Uzbekistan:
  4 (plus two repeaters that relay Russian, Kazakh,
  Kyrgyz, and Tadzhik programs) (1997)

Vanuatu:
  1 (1997)

Venezuela:
  66 (plus 45 repeaters) (1997)

Vietnam:
  at least 7 (plus 13 repeaters) (1998)

Virgin Islands:
  2 (1997)

Wake Island:
  0 (1997)

Wallis and Futuna:
  2 (2000)

West Bank:
  NA

Western Sahara:
  NA

World:
  NA

Yemen:
  7 (plus several low-power repeaters) (1997)

Yugoslavia:
  more than 771 (including 86 strong stations and 685
  low-power stations, plus 20 repeaters in the principal networks;
  also numerous local or private stations in Serbia and Vojvodina)
  (1997)

Zambia:
  9 (1997)

Zimbabwe:
  16 (1997)

Taiwan:
  29 (plus two repeaters) (1997)

======================================================================

@Televisions



Afghanistan:
  100,000 (1999)

Albania:
  405,000 (1997)

Algeria:
  3.1 million (1997)

American Samoa:
  14,000 (1997)

Andorra:
  27,000 (1997)

Angola:
  150,000 (1997)

Anguilla:
  1,000 (1997)

Antarctica:
  several hundred at McMurdo Sound

  note:  information for US bases only (2001)

Antigua and Barbuda:
  31,000 (1997)

Argentina:
  7.95 million (1997)

Armenia:
  825,000 (1997)

Aruba:
  20,000 (1997)

Australia:
  10.15 million (1997)

Austria:
  4.25 million (1997)

Azerbaijan:
  170,000 (1997)

Bahamas, The:
  67,000 (1997)

Bahrain:
  275,000 (1997)

Bangladesh:
  770,000 (1997)

Barbados:
  76,000 (1997)

Belarus:
  2.52 million (1997)

Belgium:
  4.72 million (1997)

Belize:
  41,000 (1997)

Benin:
  60,000 (1997)

Bermuda:
  66,000 (1997)

Bhutan:
  11,000 (1997)

Bolivia:
  900,000 (1997)

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  NA

Botswana:
  31,000 (1997)

Brazil:
  36.5 million (1997)

British Indian Ocean Territory:
  NA

British Virgin Islands:
  4,000 (1997)

Brunei:
  201,900 (1998)

Bulgaria:
  3.31 million (1997)

Burkina Faso:
  100,000 (1997)

Burma:
  320,000 (2000)

Burundi:
  25,000 (1997)

Cambodia:
  94,000 (1997)

Cameroon:
  450,000 (1997)

Canada:
  21.5 million (1997)

Cape Verde:
  2,000 (1997)

Cayman Islands:
  7,000 (1997)

Central African Republic:
  18,000 (1997)

Chad:
  10,000 (1997)

Chile:
  3.15 million (1997)

China:
  400 million (1997)

Christmas Island:
  600 (1997)

Cocos (Keeling) Islands:
  NA

Colombia:
  4.59 million (1997)

Comoros:
  1,000 (1997)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  6.478 million (1997)

Congo, Republic of the:
  33,000 (1997)

Cook Islands:
  4,000 (1997)

Costa Rica:
  525,000 (1997)

Cote d'Ivoire:
  900,000 (1997)

Croatia:
  1.22 million (1997)

Cuba:
  2.64 million (1997)

Cyprus:
  Greek Cypriot area: 248,000 (1997); Turkish Cypriot area:
  52,300 (1994)

Czech Republic:
  3,405,834 (December 2000)

Denmark:
  3.121 million (1997)

Djibouti:
  28,000 (1997)

Dominica:
  6,000 (1997)

Dominican Republic:
  770,000 (1997)

Ecuador:
  1.55 million (1997)

Egypt:
  7.7 million (1997)

El Salvador:
  600,000 (1990)

Equatorial Guinea:
  4,000 (1997)

Eritrea:
  1,000 (1997)

Estonia:
  605,000 (1997)

Ethiopia:
  320,000 (1997)

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas):
  1,000 (1997)

Faroe Islands:
  15,000 (1997)

Fiji:
  21,000 (1997)

Finland:
  3.2 million (1997)

France:
  34.8 million (1997)

French Guiana:
  30,000 (1997)

French Polynesia:
  40,000 (1997)

Gabon:
  63,000 (1997)

Gambia, The:
  5,000 (2000)

Gaza Strip:
  NA; note - most Palestinian households have televisions
  (1997)

Georgia:
  2.57 million (1997)

Germany:
  51.4 million (1998)

Ghana:
  1.73 million (1997)

Gibraltar:
  10,000 (1997)

Greece:
  2.54 million (1997)

Greenland:
  30,000 (1998 est.)

Grenada:
  33,000 (1997)

Guadeloupe:
  118,000 (1997)

Guam:
  106,000 (1997)

Guatemala:
  1.323 million (1997)

Guernsey:
  NA

Guinea:
  85,000 (1997)

Guinea-Bissau:
  NA

Guyana:
  46,000 (1997)

Haiti:
  38,000 (1997)

Holy See (Vatican City):
  NA

Honduras:
  570,000 (1997)

Hong Kong:
  1.84 million (1997)

Hungary:
  4.42 million (1997)

Iceland:
  98,000 (1997)

India:
  63 million (1997)

Indonesia:
  13.75 million (1997)

Iran:
  4.61 million (1997)

Iraq:
  1.75 million (1997)

Ireland:
  1.82 million (2001)

Israel:
  1.69 million (1997)

Italy:
  30.3 million (1997)

Jamaica:
  460,000 (1997)

Japan:
  86.5 million (1997)

Jersey:
  NA

Jordan:
  500,000 (1997)

Kazakhstan:
  3.88 million (1997)

Kenya:
  730,000 (1997)

Kiribati:
  1,000 (1997)

Korea, North:
  1.2 million (1997)

Korea, South:
  15.9 million (1997)

Kuwait:
  875,000 (1997)

Kyrgyzstan:
  210,000 (1997)

Laos:
  52,000 (1997)

Latvia:
  1.22 million (1997)

Lebanon:
  1.18 million (1997)

Lesotho:
  54,000 (1997)

Liberia:
  70,000 (1997)

Libya:
  730,000 (1997)

Liechtenstein:
  12,000 (1997)

Lithuania:
  1.7 million (1997)

Luxembourg:
  285,000 (1998 est.)

Macau:
  49,000 (1997)

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  510,000 (1997)

Madagascar:
  325,000 (1997)

Malawi:
  0 (1999)

Malaysia:
  10.8 million (1999)

Maldives:
  10,000 (1999)

Mali:
  45,000 (1997)

Malta:
  280,000 (1997)

Man, Isle of:
  27,490 (1999)

Marshall Islands:
  NA

Martinique:
  66,000 (1997)

Mauritania:
  87,000 (1998)

Mauritius:
  258,000 (1997)

Mayotte:
  3,500 (1994)

Mexico:
  25.6 million (1997)

Micronesia, Federated States of:
  NA

Moldova:
  1.26 million (1997)

Monaco:
  25,000 (1997)

Mongolia:
  168,800 (1999)

Montserrat:
  3,000 (1997)

Morocco:
  3.1 million (1997)

Mozambique:
  67,600 (2000)

Namibia:
  60,000 (1997)

Nauru:
  500 (1997)

Nepal:
  130,000 (1997)

Netherlands:
  8.1 million (1997)

Netherlands Antilles:
  69,000 (1997)

New Caledonia:
  52,000 (1997)

New Zealand:
  1.926 million (1997)

Nicaragua:
  320,000 (1997)

Niger:
  125,000 (1997)

Nigeria:
  6.9 million (1997)

Niue:
  NA

Norfolk Island:
  1,200 (1996)

Northern Mariana Islands:
  NA

Norway:
  2.03 million (1997)

Oman:
  1.6 million (1997)

Pakistan:
  3.1 million (1997)

Palau:
  11,000 (1997)

Panama:
  510,000 (1997)

Papua New Guinea:
  42,000 (1997)

Paraguay:
  990,000 (2001)

Peru:
  3.06 million (1997)

Philippines:
  3.7 million (1997)

Pitcairn Islands:
  NA

Poland:
  13.05 million (1997)

Portugal:
  3.31 million (1997)

Puerto Rico:
  1.021 million (1997)

Qatar:
  230,000 (1997)

Reunion:
  127,000 (1997)

Romania:
  5.25 million (1997)

Russia:
  60.5 million (1997)

Rwanda:
  NA; probably less than 1,000 (1997)

Saint Helena:
  2,000 (1997)

Saint Kitts and Nevis:
  10,000 (1997)

Saint Lucia:
  32,000 (1997)

Saint Pierre and Miquelon:
  4,000 (1997)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:
  18,000 (1997)

Samoa:
  11,000 (1997)

San Marino:
  9,000 (1997)

Sao Tome and Principe:
  23,000 (1997)

Saudi Arabia:
  5.1 million (1997)

Senegal:
  361,000 (1997)

Seychelles:
  11,000 (1997)

Sierra Leone:
  53,000 (1997)

Singapore:
  1.33 million (1997)

Slovakia:
  2.62 million (1997)

Slovenia:
  710,000 (1997)

Solomon Islands:
  3,000 (1997)

Somalia:
  135,000 (1997)

South Africa:
  5.2 million (1997)

Spain:
  16.2 million (1997)

Sri Lanka:
  1.53 million (1997)

Sudan:
  2.38 million (1997)

Suriname:
  63,000 (1997)

Svalbard:
  NA

Swaziland:
  21,000 (1997)

Sweden:
  4.6 million (1997)

Switzerland:
  3.31 million (1997)

Syria:
  1.05 million (1997)

Tajikistan:
  860,000 (1991)

Tanzania:
  103,000 (1997)

Thailand:
  15.19 million (1997)

Togo:
  73,000 (1997)

Tokelau:
  NA

Tonga:
  2,000 (1997)

Trinidad and Tobago:
  425,000 (1997)

Tunisia:
  920,000 (1997)

Turkey:
  20.9 million (1997)

Turkmenistan:
  820,000 (1997)

Turks and Caicos Islands:
  NA

Tuvalu:
  800

Uganda:
  315,000 (1997)

Ukraine:
  18.05 million (1997)

United Arab Emirates:
  310,000 (1997)

United Kingdom:
  30.5 million (1997)

United States:
  219 million (1997)

Uruguay:
  782,000 (1997)

Uzbekistan:
  6.4 million (1997)

Vanuatu:
  2,000 (1997)

Venezuela:
  4.1 million (1997)

Vietnam:
  3.57 million (1997)

Virgin Islands:
  68,000 (1997)

Wallis and Futuna:
  NA

West Bank:
  NA; note - many Palestinian households have televisions
  (1999)

Western Sahara:
  6,000 (1997)

World:
  NA

Yemen:
  470,000 (1997)

Yugoslavia:
  2.75 million (1997)

Zambia:
  277,000 (1997)

Zimbabwe:
  370,000 (1997)

Taiwan:
  8.8 million (1998)

======================================================================

@Terrain



Afghanistan:
  mostly rugged mountains; plains in north and southwest

Albania:
  mostly mountains and hills; small plains along coast

Algeria:
  mostly high plateau and desert; some mountains; narrow,
  discontinuous coastal plain

American Samoa:
  five volcanic islands with rugged peaks and limited
  coastal plains, two coral atolls (Rose Island, Swains Island)

Andorra:
  rugged mountains dissected by narrow valleys

Angola:
  narrow coastal plain rises abruptly to vast interior plateau

Anguilla:
  flat and low-lying island of coral and limestone

Antarctica:
  about 98% thick continental ice sheet and 2% barren
  rock, with average elevations between 2,000 and 4,000 meters;
  mountain ranges up to 5,140 meters; ice-free coastal areas include
  parts of southern Victoria Land, Wilkes Land, the Antarctic
  Peninsula area, and parts of Ross Island on McMurdo Sound; glaciers
  form ice shelves along about half of the coastline, and floating ice
  shelves constitute 11% of the area of the continent

Antigua and Barbuda:
  mostly low-lying limestone and coral islands,
  with some higher volcanic areas

Arctic Ocean:
  central surface covered by a perennial drifting polar
  icepack that averages about 3 meters in thickness, although pressure
  ridges may be three times that size; clockwise drift pattern in the
  Beaufort Gyral Stream, but nearly straight-line movement from the
  New Siberian Islands (Russia) to Denmark Strait (between Greenland
  and Iceland); the icepack is surrounded by open seas during the
  summer, but more than doubles in size during the winter and extends
  to the encircling landmasses; the ocean floor is about 50%
  continental shelf (highest percentage of any ocean) with the
  remainder a central basin interrupted by three submarine ridges
  (Alpha Cordillera, Nansen Cordillera, and Lomonosov Ridge)

Argentina:
  rich plains of the Pampas in northern half, flat to
  rolling plateau of Patagonia in south, rugged Andes along western
  border

Armenia:
  Armenian Highland with mountains; little forest land; fast
  flowing rivers; good soil in Aras River valley

Aruba:
  flat with a few hills; scant vegetation

Ashmore and Cartier Islands:
  low with sand and coral

Atlantic Ocean:
  surface usually covered with sea ice in Labrador
  Sea, Denmark Strait, and Baltic Sea from October to June; clockwise
  warm-water gyre (broad, circular system of currents) in the northern
  Atlantic, counterclockwise warm-water gyre in the southern Atlantic;
  the ocean floor is dominated by the Mid-Atlantic Ridge, a rugged
  north-south centerline for the entire Atlantic basin

Australia:
  mostly low plateau with deserts; fertile plain in
  southeast

Austria:
  in the west and south mostly mountains (Alps); along the
  eastern and northern margins mostly flat or gently sloping

Azerbaijan:
  large, flat Kur-Araz Ovaligi (Kura-Araks Lowland) (much
  of it below sea level) with Great Caucasus Mountains to the north,
  Qarabag Yaylasi (Karabakh Upland) in west; Baku lies on Abseron
  Yasaqligi (Apsheron Peninsula) that juts into Caspian Sea

Bahamas, The:
  long, flat coral formations with some low rounded hills

Bahrain:
  mostly low desert plain rising gently to low central
  escarpment

Baker Island:
  low, nearly level coral island surrounded by a narrow
  fringing reef

Bangladesh:
  mostly flat alluvial plain; hilly in southeast

Barbados:
  relatively flat; rises gently to central highland region

Bassas da India:
  volcanic rock

Belarus:
  generally flat and contains much marshland

Belgium:
  flat coastal plains in northwest, central rolling hills,
  rugged mountains of Ardennes Forest in southeast

Belize:
  flat, swampy coastal plain; low mountains in south

Benin:
  mostly flat to undulating plain; some hills and low mountains

Bermuda:
  low hills separated by fertile depressions

Bhutan:
  mostly mountainous with some fertile valleys and savanna

Bolivia:
  rugged Andes Mountains with a highland plateau (Altiplano),
  hills, lowland plains of the Amazon Basin

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  mountains and valleys

Botswana:
  predominantly flat to gently rolling tableland; Kalahari
  Desert in southwest

Bouvet Island:
  volcanic; maximum elevation about 800 m; coast is
  mostly inaccessible

Brazil:
  mostly flat to rolling lowlands in north; some plains,
  hills, mountains, and narrow coastal belt

British Indian Ocean Territory:
  flat and low (most areas do not
  exceed four meters in elevation)

British Virgin Islands:
  coral islands relatively flat; volcanic
  islands steep, hilly

Brunei:
  flat coastal plain rises to mountains in east; hilly lowland
  in west

Bulgaria:
  mostly mountains with lowlands in north and southeast

Burkina Faso:
  mostly flat to dissected, undulating plains; hills in
  west and southeast

Burma:
  central lowlands ringed by steep, rugged highlands

Burundi:
  hilly and mountainous, dropping to a plateau in east, some
  plains

Cambodia:
  mostly low, flat plains; mountains in southwest and north

Cameroon:
  diverse, with coastal plain in southwest, dissected
  plateau in center, mountains in west, plains in north

Canada:
  mostly plains with mountains in west and lowlands in
  southeast

Cape Verde:
  steep, rugged, rocky, volcanic

Cayman Islands:
  low-lying limestone base surrounded by coral reefs

Central African Republic:
  vast, flat to rolling, monotonous plateau;
  scattered hills in northeast and southwest

Chad:
  broad, arid plains in center, desert in north, mountains in
  northwest, lowlands in south

Chile:
  low coastal mountains; fertile central valley; rugged Andes
  in east

China:
  mostly mountains, high plateaus, deserts in west; plains,
  deltas, and hills in east

Christmas Island:
  steep cliffs along coast rise abruptly to central
  plateau

Clipperton Island:
  coral atoll

Cocos (Keeling) Islands:
  flat, low-lying coral atolls

Colombia:
  flat coastal lowlands, central highlands, high Andes
  Mountains, eastern lowland plains

Comoros:
  volcanic islands, interiors vary from steep mountains to
  low hills

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  vast central basin is a low-lying
  plateau; mountains in east

Congo, Republic of the:
  coastal plain, southern basin, central
  plateau, northern basin

Cook Islands:
  low coral atolls in north; volcanic, hilly islands in
  south

Coral Sea Islands:
  sand and coral reefs and islands (or cays)

Costa Rica:
  coastal plains separated by rugged mountains

Cote d'Ivoire:
  mostly flat to undulating plains; mountains in
  northwest

Croatia:
  geographically diverse; flat plains along Hungarian border,
  low mountains and highlands near Adriatic coastline and islands

Cuba:
  mostly flat to rolling plains, with rugged hills and mountains
  in the southeast

Cyprus:
  central plain with mountains to north and south; scattered
  but significant plains along southern coast

Czech Republic:
  Bohemia in the west consists of rolling plains,
  hills, and plateaus surrounded by low mountains; Moravia in the east
  consists of very hilly country

Denmark:
  low and flat to gently rolling plains

Djibouti:
  coastal plain and plateau separated by central mountains

Dominica:
  rugged mountains of volcanic origin

Dominican Republic:
  rugged highlands and mountains with fertile
  valleys interspersed

Ecuador:
  coastal plain (costa), inter-Andean central highlands
  (sierra), and flat to rolling eastern jungle (oriente)

Egypt:
  vast desert plateau interrupted by Nile valley and delta

El Salvador:
  mostly mountains with narrow coastal belt and central
  plateau

Equatorial Guinea:
  coastal plains rise to interior hills; islands
  are volcanic

Eritrea:
  dominated by extension of Ethiopian north-south trending
  highlands, descending on the east to a coastal desert plain, on the
  northwest to hilly terrain and on the southwest to flat-to-rolling
  plains

Estonia:
  marshy, lowlands

Ethiopia:
  high plateau with central mountain range divided by Great
  Rift Valley

Europa Island:
  low and flat

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas):
  rocky, hilly, mountainous with
  some boggy, undulating plains

Faroe Islands:
  rugged, rocky, some low peaks; cliffs along most of
  coast

Fiji:
  mostly mountains of volcanic origin

Finland:
  mostly low, flat to rolling plains interspersed with lakes
  and low hills

France:
  mostly flat plains or gently rolling hills in north and
  west; remainder is mountainous, especially Pyrenees in south, Alps
  in east

French Guiana:
  low-lying coastal plains rising to hills and small
  mountains

French Polynesia:
  mixture of rugged high islands and low islands
  with reefs

French Southern and Antarctic Lands:
  volcanic

Gabon:
  narrow coastal plain; hilly interior; savanna in east and
  south

Gambia, The:
  flood plain of the Gambia river flanked by some low
  hills

Gaza Strip:
  flat to rolling, sand- and dune-covered coastal plain

Georgia:
  largely mountainous with Great Caucasus Mountains in the
  north and Lesser Caucasus Mountains in the south; Kolkhet'is Dablobi
  (Kolkhida Lowland) opens to the Black Sea in the west; Mtkvari River
  Basin in the east; good soils in river valley flood plains,
  foothills of Kolkhida Lowland

Germany:
  lowlands in north, uplands in center, Bavarian Alps in south

Ghana:
  mostly low plains with dissected plateau in south-central area

Gibraltar:
  a narrow coastal lowland borders the Rock of Gibraltar

Glorioso Islands:
  low and flat

Greece:
  mostly mountains with ranges extending into the sea as
  peninsulas or chains of islands

Greenland:
  flat to gradually sloping icecap covers all but a narrow,
  mountainous, barren, rocky coast

Grenada:
  volcanic in origin with central mountains

Guadeloupe:
  Basse-Terre is volcanic in origin with interior
  mountains; Grande-Terre is low limestone formation; most of the
  seven other islands are volcanic in origin

Guam:
  volcanic origin, surrounded by coral reefs; relatively flat
  coralline limestone plateau (source of most fresh water), with steep
  coastal cliffs and narrow coastal plains in north, low-rising hills
  in center, mountains in south

Guatemala:
  mostly mountains with narrow coastal plains and rolling
  limestone plateau (Peten)

Guernsey:
  mostly level with low hills in southwest

Guinea:
  generally flat coastal plain, hilly to mountainous interior

Guinea-Bissau:
  mostly low coastal plain rising to savanna in east

Guyana:
  mostly rolling highlands; low coastal plain; savanna in south

Haiti:
  mostly rough and mountainous

Heard Island and McDonald Islands:
  Heard Island - bleak and
  mountainous, with a quiescent volcano; McDonald Islands - small and
  rocky

Holy See (Vatican City):
  low hill

Honduras:
  mostly mountains in interior, narrow coastal plains

Hong Kong:
  hilly to mountainous with steep slopes; lowlands in north

Howland Island:
  low-lying, nearly level, sandy, coral island
  surrounded by a narrow fringing reef; depressed central area

Hungary:
  mostly flat to rolling plains; hills and low mountains on
  the Slovakian border

Iceland:
  mostly plateau interspersed with mountain peaks, icefields;
  coast deeply indented by bays and fiords

India:
  upland plain (Deccan Plateau) in south, flat to rolling plain
  along the Ganges, deserts in west, Himalayas in north

Indian Ocean:
  surface dominated by counterclockwise gyre (broad,
  circular system of currents) in the southern Indian Ocean; unique
  reversal of surface currents in the northern Indian Ocean; low
  atmospheric pressure over southwest Asia from hot, rising, summer
  air results in the southwest monsoon and southwest-to-northeast
  winds and currents, while high pressure over northern Asia from
  cold, falling, winter air results in the northeast monsoon and
  northeast-to-southwest winds and currents; ocean floor is dominated
  by the Mid-Indian Ocean Ridge and subdivided by the Southeast Indian
  Ocean Ridge, Southwest Indian Ocean Ridge, and Ninetyeast Ridge

Indonesia:
  mostly coastal lowlands; larger islands have interior
  mountains

Iran:
  rugged, mountainous rim; high, central basin with deserts,
  mountains; small, discontinuous plains along both coasts

Iraq:
  mostly broad plains; reedy marshes along Iranian border in
  south with large flooded areas; mountains along borders with Iran
  and Turkey

Ireland:
  mostly level to rolling interior plain surrounded by rugged
  hills and low mountains; sea cliffs on west coast

Israel:
  Negev desert in the south; low coastal plain; central
  mountains; Jordan Rift Valley

Italy:
  mostly rugged and mountainous; some plains, coastal lowlands

Jamaica:
  mostly mountains, with narrow, discontinuous coastal plain

Jan Mayen:
  volcanic island, partly covered by glaciers

Japan:
  mostly rugged and mountainous

Jarvis Island:
  sandy, coral island surrounded by a narrow fringing
  reef

Jersey:
  gently rolling plain with low, rugged hills along north coast

Johnston Atoll:
  mostly flat

Jordan:
  mostly desert plateau in east, highland area in west; Great
  Rift Valley separates East and West Banks of the Jordan River

Juan de Nova Island:
  low and flat

Kazakhstan:
  extends from the Volga to the Altai Mountains and from
  the plains in western Siberia to oases and desert in Central Asia

Kenya:
  low plains rise to central highlands bisected by Great Rift
  Valley; fertile plateau in west

Kingman Reef:
  low and nearly level

Kiribati:
  mostly low-lying coral atolls surrounded by extensive reefs

Korea, North:
  mostly hills and mountains separated by deep, narrow
  valleys; coastal plains wide in west, discontinuous in east

Korea, South:
  mostly hills and mountains; wide coastal plains in
  west and south

Kuwait:
  flat to slightly undulating desert plain

Kyrgyzstan:
  peaks of Tien Shan and associated valleys and basins
  encompass entire nation

Laos:
  mostly rugged mountains; some plains and plateaus

Latvia:
  low plain

Lebanon:
  narrow coastal plain; Al Biqa' (Bekaa Valley) separates
  Lebanon and Anti-Lebanon Mountains

Lesotho:
  mostly highland with plateaus, hills, and mountains

Liberia:
  mostly flat to rolling coastal plains rising to rolling
  plateau and low mountains in northeast

Libya:
  mostly barren, flat to undulating plains, plateaus,
  depressions

Liechtenstein:
  mostly mountainous (Alps) with Rhine Valley in
  western third

Lithuania:
  lowland, many scattered small lakes, fertile soil

Luxembourg:
  mostly gently rolling uplands with broad, shallow
  valleys; uplands to slightly mountainous in the north; steep slope
  down to Moselle flood plain in the southeast

Macau:
  generally flat

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  mountainous territory
  covered with deep basins and valleys; three large lakes, each
  divided by a frontier line; country bisected by the Vardar River

Madagascar:
  narrow coastal plain, high plateau and mountains in
  center

Malawi:
  narrow elongated plateau with rolling plains, rounded hills,
  some mountains

Malaysia:
  coastal plains rising to hills and mountains

Maldives:
  flat, with white sandy beaches

Mali:
  mostly flat to rolling northern plains covered by sand;
  savanna in south, rugged hills in northeast

Malta:
  mostly low, rocky, flat to dissected plains; many coastal
  cliffs

Man, Isle of:
  hills in north and south bisected by central valley

Marshall Islands:
  low coral limestone and sand islands

Martinique:
  mountainous with indented coastline; dormant volcano

Mauritania:
  mostly barren, flat plains of the Sahara; some central
  hills

Mauritius:
  small coastal plain rising to discontinuous mountains
  encircling central plateau

Mayotte:
  generally undulating, with deep ravines and ancient
  volcanic peaks

Mexico:
  high, rugged mountains; low coastal plains; high plateaus;
  desert

Micronesia, Federated States of:
  islands vary geologically from high
  mountainous islands to low, coral atolls; volcanic outcroppings on
  Pohnpei, Kosrae, and Truk

Midway Islands:
  low, nearly level

Moldova:
  rolling steppe, gradual slope south to Black Sea

Monaco:
  hilly, rugged, rocky

Mongolia:
  vast semidesert and desert plains, grassy steppe,
  mountains in west and southwest; Gobi Desert in south-central

Montserrat:
  volcanic islands, mostly mountainous, with small coastal
  lowland

Morocco:
  northern coast and interior are mountainous with large
  areas of bordering plateaus, intermontane valleys, and rich coastal
  plains

Mozambique:
  mostly coastal lowlands, uplands in center, high
  plateaus in northwest, mountains in west

Namibia:
  mostly high plateau; Namib Desert along coast; Kalahari
  Desert in east

Nauru:
  sandy beach rises to fertile ring around raised coral reefs
  with phosphate plateau in center

Navassa Island:
  raised coral and limestone plateau, flat to
  undulating; ringed by vertical white cliffs (9 to 15 m high)

Nepal:
  Terai or flat river plain of the Ganges in south, central
  hill region, rugged Himalayas in north

Netherlands:
  mostly coastal lowland and reclaimed land (polders);
  some hills in southeast

Netherlands Antilles:
  generally hilly, volcanic interiors

New Caledonia:
  coastal plains with interior mountains

New Zealand:
  predominately mountainous with some large coastal plains

Nicaragua:
  extensive Atlantic coastal plains rising to central
  interior mountains; narrow Pacific coastal plain interrupted by
  volcanoes

Niger:
  predominately desert plains and sand dunes; flat to rolling
  plains in south; hills in north

Nigeria:
  southern lowlands merge into central hills and plateaus;
  mountains in southeast, plains in north

Niue:
  steep limestone cliffs along coast, central plateau

Norfolk Island:
  volcanic formation with mostly rolling plains

Northern Mariana Islands:
  southern islands are limestone with level
  terraces and fringing coral reefs; northern islands are volcanic

Norway:
  glaciated; mostly high plateaus and rugged mountains broken
  by fertile valleys; small, scattered plains; coastline deeply
  indented by fjords; arctic tundra in north

Oman:
  central desert plain, rugged mountains in north and south

Pacific Ocean:
  surface currents in the northern Pacific are
  dominated by a clockwise, warm-water gyre (broad circular system of
  currents) and in the southern Pacific by a counterclockwise,
  cool-water gyre; in the northern Pacific, sea ice forms in the
  Bering Sea and Sea of Okhotsk in winter; in the southern Pacific,
  sea ice from Antarctica reaches its northernmost extent in October;
  the ocean floor in the eastern Pacific is dominated by the East
  Pacific Rise, while the western Pacific is dissected by deep
  trenches, including the Mariana Trench, which is the world's deepest

Pakistan:
  flat Indus plain in east; mountains in north and
  northwest; Balochistan plateau in west

Palau:
  varying geologically from the high, mountainous main island
  of Babelthuap to low, coral islands usually fringed by large barrier
  reefs

Palmyra Atoll:
  very low

Panama:
  interior mostly steep, rugged mountains and dissected,
  upland plains; coastal areas largely plains and rolling hills

Papua New Guinea:
  mostly mountains with coastal lowlands and rolling
  foothills

Paracel Islands:
  mostly low and flat

Paraguay:
  grassy plains and wooded hills east of Rio Paraguay; Gran
  Chaco region west of Rio Paraguay mostly low, marshy plain near the
  river, and dry forest and thorny scrub elsewhere

Peru:
  western coastal plain (costa), high and rugged Andes in center
  (sierra), eastern lowland jungle of Amazon Basin (selva)

Philippines:
  mostly mountains with narrow to extensive coastal
  lowlands

Pitcairn Islands:
  rugged volcanic formation; rocky coastline with
  cliffs

Poland:
  mostly flat plain; mountains along southern border

Portugal:
  mountainous north of the Tagus River, rolling plains in
  south

Puerto Rico:
  mostly mountains, with coastal plain belt in north;
  mountains precipitous to sea on west coast; sandy beaches along most
  coastal areas

Qatar:
  mostly flat and barren desert covered with loose sand and
  gravel

Reunion:
  mostly rugged and mountainous; fertile lowlands along coast

Romania:
  central Transylvanian Basin is separated from the Plain of
  Moldavia on the east by the Carpathian Mountains and separated from
  the Walachian Plain on the south by the Transylvanian Alps

Russia:
  broad plain with low hills west of Urals; vast coniferous
  forest and tundra in Siberia; uplands and mountains along southern
  border regions

Rwanda:
  mostly grassy uplands and hills; relief is mountainous with
  altitude declining from west to east

Saint Helena:
  Saint Helena - rugged, volcanic; small scattered
  plateaus and plains

  note:  the other islands of the group have a volcanic origin

Saint Kitts and Nevis:
  volcanic with mountainous interiors

Saint Lucia:
  volcanic and mountainous with some broad, fertile
  valleys

Saint Pierre and Miquelon:
  mostly barren rock

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:
  volcanic, mountainous

Samoa:
  narrow coastal plain with volcanic, rocky, rugged mountains
  in interior

San Marino:
  rugged mountains

Sao Tome and Principe:
  volcanic, mountainous

Saudi Arabia:
  mostly uninhabited, sandy desert

Senegal:
  generally low, rolling, plains rising to foothills in
  southeast

Seychelles:
  Mahe Group is granitic, narrow coastal strip, rocky,
  hilly; others are coral, flat, elevated reefs

Sierra Leone:
  coastal belt of mangrove swamps, wooded hill country,
  upland plateau, mountains in east

Singapore:
  lowland; gently undulating central plateau contains water
  catchment area and nature preserve

Slovakia:
  rugged mountains in the central and northern part and
  lowlands in the south

Slovenia:
  a short coastal strip on the Adriatic, an alpine mountain
  region adjacent to Italy and Austria, mixed mountain and valleys
  with numerous rivers to the east

Solomon Islands:
  mostly rugged mountains with some low coral atolls

Somalia:
  mostly flat to undulating plateau rising to hills in north

South Africa:
  vast interior plateau rimmed by rugged hills and
  narrow coastal plain

South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands:
  most of the islands,
  rising steeply from the sea, are rugged and mountainous; South
  Georgia is largely barren and has steep, glacier-covered mountains;
  the South Sandwich Islands are of volcanic origin with some active
  volcanoes

Southern Ocean:
  the Southern Ocean is deep, 4,000 to 5,000 meters
  over most of its extent with only limited areas of shallow water;
  the Antarctic continental shelf is generally narrow and unusually
  deep - its edge lying at depths of 400 to 800 meters (the global
  mean is 133 meters); the Antarctic icepack grows from an average
  minimum of 2.6 million square kilometers in March to about 18.8
  million square kilometers in September, better than a sixfold
  increase in area; the Antarctic Circumpolar Current (21,000 km in
  length) moves perpetually eastward; it is the world's largest ocean
  current, transporting 130 million cubic meters of water per second -
  100 times the flow of all the world's rivers

Spain:
  large, flat to dissected plateau surrounded by rugged hills;
  Pyrenees in north

Spratly Islands:
  flat

Sri Lanka:
  mostly low, flat to rolling plain; mountains in
  south-central interior

Sudan:
  generally flat, featureless plain; mountains in east and west

Suriname:
  mostly rolling hills; narrow coastal plain with swamps

Svalbard:
  wild, rugged mountains; much of high land ice covered;
  west coast clear of ice about one-half of the year; fjords along
  west and north coasts

Swaziland:
  mostly mountains and hills; some moderately sloping plains

Sweden:
  mostly flat or gently rolling lowlands; mountains in west

Switzerland:
  mostly mountains (Alps in south, Jura in northwest)
  with a central plateau of rolling hills, plains, and large lakes

Syria:
  primarily semiarid and desert plateau; narrow coastal plain;
  mountains in west

Tajikistan:
  Pamir and Alay mountains dominate landscape; western
  Fergana Valley in north, Kofarnihon and Vakhsh Valleys in southwest

Tanzania:
  plains along coast; central plateau; highlands in north,
  south

Thailand:
  central plain; Khorat Plateau in the east; mountains
  elsewhere

Togo:
  gently rolling savanna in north; central hills; southern
  plateau; low coastal plain with extensive lagoons and marshes

Tokelau:
  low-lying coral atolls enclosing large lagoons

Tonga:
  most islands have limestone base formed from uplifted coral
  formation; others have limestone overlying volcanic base

Trinidad and Tobago:
  mostly plains with some hills and low mountains

Tromelin Island:
  low, flat, and sandy

Tunisia:
  mountains in north; hot, dry central plain; semiarid south
  merges into the Sahara

Turkey:
  mostly mountains; narrow coastal plain; high central plateau
  (Anatolia)

Turkmenistan:
  flat-to-rolling sandy desert with dunes rising to
  mountains in the south; low mountains along border with Iran;
  borders Caspian Sea in west

Turks and Caicos Islands:
  low, flat limestone; extensive marshes and
  mangrove swamps

Tuvalu:
  very low-lying and narrow coral atolls

Uganda:
  mostly plateau with rim of mountains

Ukraine:
  most of Ukraine consists of fertile plains (steppes) and
  plateaus, mountains being found only in the west (the Carpathians),
  and in the Crimean Peninsula in the extreme south

United Arab Emirates:
  flat, barren coastal plain merging into
  rolling sand dunes of vast desert wasteland; mountains in east

United Kingdom:
  mostly rugged hills and low mountains; level to
  rolling plains in east and southeast

United States:
  vast central plain, mountains in west, hills and low
  mountains in east; rugged mountains and broad river valleys in
  Alaska; rugged, volcanic topography in Hawaii

Uruguay:
  mostly rolling plains and low hills; fertile coastal lowland

Uzbekistan:
  mostly flat-to-rolling sandy desert with dunes; broad,
  flat intensely irrigated river valleys along course of Amu Darya,
  Sirdaryo (Syr Darya), and Zarafshon; Fergana Valley in east
  surrounded by mountainous Tajikistan and Kyrgyzstan; shrinking Aral
  Sea in west

Vanuatu:
  mostly mountains of volcanic origin; narrow coastal plains

Venezuela:
  Andes Mountains and Maracaibo Lowlands in northwest;
  central plains (llanos); Guiana Highlands in southeast

Vietnam:
  low, flat delta in south and north; central highlands;
  hilly, mountainous in far north and northwest

Virgin Islands:
  mostly hilly to rugged and mountainous with little
  level land

Wake Island:
  atoll of three coral islands built up on an underwater
  volcano; central lagoon is former crater, islands are part of the rim

Wallis and Futuna:
  volcanic origin; low hills

West Bank:
  mostly rugged dissected upland, some vegetation in west,
  but barren in east

Western Sahara:
  mostly low, flat desert with large areas of rocky or
  sandy surfaces rising to small mountains in south and northeast

World:
  the greatest ocean depth is the Mariana Trench at 10,924 m in
  the Pacific Ocean

Yemen:
  narrow coastal plain backed by flat-topped hills and rugged
  mountains; dissected upland desert plains in center slope into the
  desert interior of the Arabian Peninsula

Yugoslavia:
  extremely varied; to the north, rich fertile plains; to
  the east, limestone ranges and basins; to the southeast, ancient
  mountains and hills; to the southwest, extremely high shoreline with
  no islands off the coast

Zambia:
  mostly high plateau with some hills and mountains

Zimbabwe:
  mostly high plateau with higher central plateau (high
  veld); mountains in east

Taiwan:
  eastern two-thirds mostly rugged mountains; flat to gently
  rolling plains in west

======================================================================

@Total fertility rate



Afghanistan:
  5.79 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Albania:
  2.32 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Algeria:
  2.72 children born/woman (2001 est.)

American Samoa:
  3.5 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Andorra:
  1.25 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Angola:
  6.48 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Anguilla:
  1.79 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Antigua and Barbuda:
  2.31 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Argentina:
  2.44 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Armenia:
  1.5 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Aruba:
  1.8 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Australia:
  1.77 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Austria:
  1.39 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Azerbaijan:
  2.24 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Bahamas, The:
  2.3 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Bahrain:
  2.79 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Bangladesh:
  2.78 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Barbados:
  1.64 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Belarus:
  1.28 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Belgium:
  1.61 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Belize:
  4.05 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Benin:
  6.23 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Bermuda:
  1.81 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Bhutan:
  5.07 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Bolivia:
  3.51 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  1.71 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Botswana:
  3.7 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Brazil:
  2.09 children born/woman (2001 est.)

British Virgin Islands:
  1.72 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Brunei:
  2.44 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Bulgaria:
  1.13 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Burkina Faso:
  6.35 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Burma:
  2.3 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Burundi:
  6.16 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Cambodia:
  4.74 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Cameroon:
  4.8 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Canada:
  1.6 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Cape Verde:
  4.05 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Cayman Islands:
  2.04 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Central African Republic:
  4.86 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Chad:
  6.56 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Chile:
  2.16 children born/woman (2001 est.)

China:
  1.82 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Christmas Island:
  NA children born/woman

Cocos (Keeling) Islands:
  NA children born/woman

Colombia:
  2.66 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Comoros:
  5.32 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  6.84 children born/woman (2001
  est.)

Congo, Republic of the:
  5 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Costa Rica:
  2.47 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Cote d'Ivoire:
  5.7 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Croatia:
  1.94 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Cuba:
  1.6 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Cyprus:
  1.93 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Czech Republic:
  1.18 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Denmark:
  1.73 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Djibouti:
  5.72 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Dominica:
  2.03 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Dominican Republic:
  2.97 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Ecuador:
  3.12 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Egypt:
  3.07 children born/woman (2001 est.)

El Salvador:
  3.34 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Equatorial Guinea:
  4.88 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Eritrea:
  5.87 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Estonia:
  1.21 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Ethiopia:
  7 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas):
  NA children born/woman

Faroe Islands:
  2.3 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Fiji:
  2.86 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Finland:
  1.7 children born/woman (2001 est.)

France:
  1.75 children born/woman (2001 est.)

French Guiana:
  3.17 children born/woman (2001 est.)

French Polynesia:
  2.23 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Gabon:
  3.69 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Gambia, The:
  5.68 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Gaza Strip:
  6.42 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Georgia:
  1.45 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Germany:
  1.38 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Ghana:
  3.82 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Gibraltar:
  1.64 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Greece:
  1.33 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Greenland:
  2.44 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Grenada:
  2.54 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Guadeloupe:
  1.93 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Guam:
  3.85 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Guatemala:
  4.58 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Guernsey:
  1.36 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Guinea:
  5.39 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Guinea-Bissau:
  5.2 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Guyana:
  2.1 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Haiti:
  4.4 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Honduras:
  4.15 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Hong Kong:
  1.29 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Hungary:
  1.25 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Iceland:
  2.01 children born/woman (2001 est.)

India:
  3.04 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Indonesia:
  2.58 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Iran:
  2.02 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Iraq:
  4.75 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Ireland:
  1.9 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Israel:
  2.57 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Italy:
  1.18 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Jamaica:
  2.08 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Japan:
  1.41 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Jersey:
  1.56 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Jordan:
  3.29 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Kazakhstan:
  2.07 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Kenya:
  3.5 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Kiribati:
  4.36 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Korea, North:
  2.26 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Korea, South:
  1.72 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Kuwait:
  3.2 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Kyrgyzstan:
  3.19 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Laos:
  5.12 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Latvia:
  1.15 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Lebanon:
  2.05 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Lesotho:
  4.08 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Liberia:
  6.36 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Libya:
  3.64 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Liechtenstein:
  1.5 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Lithuania:
  1.37 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Luxembourg:
  1.7 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Macau:
  1.31 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  1.79 children born/woman
  (2001 est.)

Madagascar:
  5.8 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Malawi:
  5.18 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Malaysia:
  3.24 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Maldives:
  5.5 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Mali:
  6.81 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Malta:
  1.92 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Man, Isle of:
  1.65 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Marshall Islands:
  6.55 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Martinique:
  1.8 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Mauritania:
  6.22 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Mauritius:
  2.01 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Mayotte:
  6.24 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Mexico:
  2.62 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Moldova:
  1.67 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Monaco:
  1.76 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Mongolia:
  2.39 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Montserrat:
  1.82 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Morocco:
  3.05 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Mozambique:
  4.82 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Namibia:
  4.83 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Nauru:
  3.61 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Nepal:
  4.58 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Netherlands:
  1.65 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Netherlands Antilles:
  2.07 children born/woman (2001 est.)

New Caledonia:
  2.48 children born/woman (2001 est.)

New Zealand:
  1.8 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Nicaragua:
  3.18 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Niger:
  7.08 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Nigeria:
  5.57 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Niue:
  NA children born/woman

Norfolk Island:
  NA children born/woman

Northern Mariana Islands:
  1.76 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Norway:
  1.81 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Oman:
  6.04 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Pakistan:
  4.41 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Palau:
  2.47 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Panama:
  2.27 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Papua New Guinea:
  4.3 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Paraguay:
  4.11 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Peru:
  2.96 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Philippines:
  3.42 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Pitcairn Islands:
  NA children born/woman

Poland:
  1.37 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Portugal:
  1.48 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Puerto Rico:
  1.9 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Qatar:
  3.17 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Reunion:
  2.58 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Romania:
  1.35 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Russia:
  1.27 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Rwanda:
  4.89 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Saint Helena:
  1.53 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Saint Kitts and Nevis:
  2.41 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Saint Lucia:
  2.38 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Saint Pierre and Miquelon:
  2.12 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:
  2.06 children born/woman (2001
  est.)

Samoa:
  3.4 children born/woman (2001 est.)

San Marino:
  1.3 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Sao Tome and Principe:
  6.02 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Saudi Arabia:
  6.25 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Senegal:
  5.12 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Seychelles:
  1.83 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Sierra Leone:
  6.01 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Singapore:
  1.22 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Slovakia:
  1.25 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Slovenia:
  1.28 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Solomon Islands:
  4.65 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Somalia:
  7.11 children born/woman (2001 est.)

South Africa:
  2.43 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Spain:
  1.15 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Sri Lanka:
  1.95 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Sudan:
  5.35 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Suriname:
  2.47 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Svalbard:
  NA children born/woman

Swaziland:
  5.82 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Sweden:
  1.53 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Switzerland:
  1.47 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Syria:
  3.95 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Tajikistan:
  4.29 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Tanzania:
  5.42 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Thailand:
  1.87 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Togo:
  5.32 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Tokelau:
  NA children born/woman

Tonga:
  3 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Trinidad and Tobago:
  1.81 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Tunisia:
  1.99 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Turkey:
  2.12 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Turkmenistan:
  3.58 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Turks and Caicos Islands:
  3.22 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Tuvalu:
  3.09 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Uganda:
  6.88 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Ukraine:
  1.29 children born/woman (2001 est.)

United Arab Emirates:
  3.23 children born/woman (2001 est.)

United Kingdom:
  1.73 children born/woman (2001 est.)

United States:
  2.06 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Uruguay:
  2.36 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Uzbekistan:
  3.06 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Vanuatu:
  3.19 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Venezuela:
  2.46 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Vietnam:
  2.49 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Virgin Islands:
  2.25 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Wallis and Futuna:
  NA children born/woman

West Bank:
  4.9 children born/woman (2001 est.)

World:
  2.73 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Yemen:
  6.97 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Yugoslavia:
  1.75 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Zambia:
  5.53 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Zimbabwe:
  3.28 children born/woman (2001 est.)

Taiwan:
  1.76 children born/woman (2001 est.)

======================================================================

@Transportation - note



Arctic Ocean:
  sparse network of air, ocean, river, and land routes;
  the Northwest Passage (North America) and Northern Sea Route
  (Eurasia) are important seasonal waterways

Atlantic Ocean:
  Kiel Canal and Saint Lawrence Seaway are two
  important waterways; significant domestic commercial and
  recreational use of Intracoastal Waterway on central and south
  Atlantic seaboard and Gulf of Mexico coast of US

Baker Island:
  there is a day beacon near the middle of the west coast

Georgia:
  transportation network is in poor condition resulting from
  ethnic conflict, criminal activities, and fuel shortages; network
  lacks maintenance and repair

Howland Island:
  Earhart Light is a day beacon near the middle of the
  west coast that was partially destroyed during World War II, but has
  since been rebuilt; named in memory of famed aviatrix Amelia EARHART

Jarvis Island:
  there is a day beacon near the middle of the west
  coast

Pacific Ocean:
  Inside Passage offers protected waters from southeast
  Alaska to Puget Sound (Washington state)

Southern Ocean:
  Drake Passage offers alternative to transit through
  the Panama Canal

Wake Island:
  formerly an important commercial aviation base, now
  used by US military, some commercial cargo planes, and for emergency
  landings

======================================================================

@Unemployment rate



Afghanistan:
  NA%

Albania:
  16% (2000 est.) officially; may be as high as 25%

Algeria:
  30% (1999 est.)

American Samoa:
  16% (1993)

Andorra:
  0%

Angola:
  extensive unemployment and underemployment affecting more
  than half the population (2000 est.)

Anguilla:
  7% (1992 est.)

Antigua and Barbuda:
  7% (1999 est.)

Argentina:
  15% (December 2000)

Armenia:
  20% (1998 est.)

  note:  official rate is 9.3% for 1998

Aruba:
  0.6% (1999 est.)

Australia:
  6.4% (2000)

Austria:
  5.4% (2000 est.)

Azerbaijan:
  20% (1999 est.)

Bahamas, The:
  9% (1998 est.)

Bahrain:
  15% (1998 est.)

Bangladesh:
  35.2% (1996)

Barbados:
  11% (1999 est.)

Belarus:
  2.1% officially registered unemployed (December 2000);
  large number of underemployed workers

Belgium:
  8.4% (2000 est.)

Belize:
  12.8% (1999)

Benin:
  NA%

Bermuda:
  NEGL% (1995)

Bhutan:
  NA%

Bolivia:
  11.4% (1997)

  note:  widespread underemployment

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  35%-40% (1999 est.)

Botswana:
  40% (2000 est.)

Brazil:
  7.1% (2000 est.)

British Virgin Islands:
  3% (1995)

Brunei:
  4.9% (1995 est.)

Bulgaria:
  17.7% (2000 est.)

Burkina Faso:
  NA%

Burma:
  7.1% (official FY97/98 est.)

Burundi:
  NA%

Cambodia:
  2.8% (1999 est.)

Cameroon:
  30% (1998 est.)

Canada:
  6.8% (2000 est.)

Cape Verde:
  24% (1999 est.)

Cayman Islands:
  4.1% (1997)

Central African Republic:
  6% (1993)

Chad:
  NA%

Chile:
  9% (December 2000)

China:
  urban unemployment roughly 10%; substantial unemployment and
  underemployment in rural areas (2000 est.)

Christmas Island:
  NA%

Colombia:
  20% (2000 est.)

Comoros:
  20% (1996 est.)

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  NA%

Congo, Republic of the:
  NA%

Cook Islands:
  NA%

Costa Rica:
  5.2% (2000 est.)

Cote d'Ivoire:
  13% in urban areas (1998 est.)

Croatia:
  22% (October 2000)

Cuba:
  5.5% (2000 est.)

Cyprus:
  Greek Cypriot area: 3.6% (2000 est.); Turkish Cypriot area:
  6% (1998 est.)

Czech Republic:
  8.7% (2000 est.)

Denmark:
  5.3% (2000)

Djibouti:
  50% (2000 est.)

Dominica:
  20% (1999 est.)

Dominican Republic:
  13.8% (1999 est.)

Ecuador:
  13%; note - widespread underemployment (2000 est.)

Egypt:
  11.5% (2000 est.)

El Salvador:
  10% (2000 est.)

Equatorial Guinea:
  30% (1998 est.)

Eritrea:
  NA%

Estonia:
  11.7% (1999 est.)

Ethiopia:
  NA%

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas):
  full employment; labor shortage

Faroe Islands:
  1% (October 2000)

Fiji:
  6% (1997 est.)

Finland:
  9.8% (2000 est.)

France:
  9.7% (2000 est.)

French Guiana:
  21.4% (1998)

French Polynesia:
  15% (1992 est.)

Gabon:
  21% (1997 est.)

Gambia, The:
  NA%

Gaza Strip:
  40% (includes West Bank) (yearend 2000)

Georgia:
  14.9% (1999 est.)

Germany:
  9.9% (2000 est.)

Ghana:
  20% (1997 est.)

Gibraltar:
  13.5% (1996)

Greece:
  11.3% (2000 est.)

Greenland:
  7% (1999 est.)

Grenada:
  15% (1997)

Guadeloupe:
  27.8% (1998)

Guam:
  15% (2000 est.)

Guatemala:
  7.5% (1999 est.)

Guernsey:
  0.5% (1999 est.)

Guinea:
  NA%

Guinea-Bissau:
  NA%

Guyana:
  12% (1992 est.)

Haiti:
  widespread unemployment and underemployment; more than
  two-thirds of the labor force do not have formal jobs (1999)

Honduras:
  28% (2000 est.)

Hong Kong:
  4.5% (2000 est.)

Hungary:
  9.4% (2000 est.)

Iceland:
  2.7% (January 2001)

India:
  NA%

Indonesia:
  15%-20% (1998 est.)

Iran:
  14% (1999 est.)

Iraq:
  NA%

Ireland:
  4.1% (2000)

Israel:
  9% (2000 est.)

Italy:
  10.4% (2000 est.)

Jamaica:
  16% (2000 est.)

Japan:
  4.7% (2000)

Jersey:
  0.7% (1998 est.)

Jordan:
  15% official rate; actual rate is 25%-30% (1999 est.)

Kazakhstan:
  13.7% (1998 est.)

Kenya:
  50% (1998 est.)

Kiribati:
  2%; underemployment 70% (1992 est.)

Korea, North:
  NA%

Korea, South:
  4.1% (2000 est.)

Kuwait:
  1.8% (official 1996 est.)

Kyrgyzstan:
  6% (1998 est.)

Laos:
  5.7% (1997 est.)

Latvia:
  7.8% (2000 est.)

Lebanon:
  18% (1997 est.)

Lesotho:
  45% (2000 est.)

Liberia:
  70%

Libya:
  30% (2000 est.)

Liechtenstein:
  1.8% (February 1999)

Lithuania:
  10.8% (2000)

Luxembourg:
  2.7% (2000 est.)

Macau:
  6.6% (2000)

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  32% (2000)

Madagascar:
  NA%

Malawi:
  NA%

Malaysia:
  2.8% (2000 est.)

Maldives:
  NEGL%

Mali:
  NA%

Malta:
  4.5% (3rd Quarter 2000)

Man, Isle of:
  0.6% (August 2000)

Marshall Islands:
  16% (1991 est.)

Martinique:
  27.2% (1998)

Mauritania:
  23% (1995 est.)

Mauritius:
  6.4% (1999 est.)

Mayotte:
  45% (1997)

Mexico:
  urban - 2.2% (2000); plus considerable underemployment

Micronesia, Federated States of:
  16% (1999 est.)

Moldova:
  1.9% (includes only officially registered unemployed; large
  numbers of underemployed workers) (November 2000)

Monaco:
  3.1% (1998)

Mongolia:
  NA%

Montserrat:
  20% (1996 est.)

Morocco:
  23% (1999 est.)

Mozambique:
  21% (1997 est.)

Namibia:
  30% to 40%, including underemployment (1997 est.)

Nauru:
  0%

Nepal:
  NA%; substantial underemployment (1999)

Netherlands:
  2.6% (2000 est.)

Netherlands Antilles:
  14.9% (1998 est.)

New Caledonia:
  19% (1996)

New Zealand:
  6.3% (2000 est.)

Nicaragua:
  20% plus considerable underemployment (1999 est.)

Niger:
  NA%

Nigeria:
  28% (1992 est.)

Niue:
  NA%

Norfolk Island:
  NA%

Northern Mariana Islands:
  NA%

Norway:
  3% (2000 est.)

Oman:
  NA%

Pakistan:
  6% (FY99/00 est.)

Palau:
  2.3% (2000 est.)

Panama:
  13% (2000 est.)

Papua New Guinea:
  NA%

Paraguay:
  16% (2000 est.)

Peru:
  7.7%; extensive underemployment (1997)

Philippines:
  10% (2000)

Pitcairn Islands:
  NA%

Poland:
  12% (1999)

Portugal:
  4.3% (2000 est.)

Puerto Rico:
  9.5% (2000)

Qatar:
  NA%

Reunion:
  42.8% (1998)

Romania:
  11.5% (1999)

Russia:
  10.5% (2000 est.), plus considerable underemployment

Rwanda:
  NA%

Saint Helena:
  14% (1998 est.)

Saint Kitts and Nevis:
  4.5% (1997)

Saint Lucia:
  15% (1996 est.)

Saint Pierre and Miquelon:
  9.8% (1997)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:
  22% (1997 est.)

Samoa:
  NA%; note - substantial underemployment

San Marino:
  3% (1999)

Sao Tome and Principe:
  NA%

Saudi Arabia:
  NA%

Senegal:
  NA%; urban youth 40%

Seychelles:
  NA%

Sierra Leone:
  NA%

Singapore:
  3% (2000 est.)

Slovakia:
  17% (2000 est.)

Slovenia:
  7.1% (1997 est.)

Solomon Islands:
  NA%

Somalia:
  NA%

South Africa:
  30% (2000 est.)

Spain:
  14% (2000 est.)

Sri Lanka:
  8.8% (1999 est.)

Sudan:
  4% (1996 est.)

Suriname:
  20% (1997)

Swaziland:
  22% (1995 est.)

Sweden:
  6% (2000 est.)

Switzerland:
  1.9% (2000 est.)

Syria:
  20% (2000 est.)

Tajikistan:
  5.7% includes only officially registered unemployed;
  also large numbers of underemployed workers and unregistered
  unemployed people (December 1998)

Tanzania:
  NA%

Thailand:
  3.7% (2000 est.)

Togo:
  NA%

Tokelau:
  NA%

Tonga:
  13.3% (FY96/97)

Trinidad and Tobago:
  12.8% (2000)

Tunisia:
  15.6% (2000 est.)

Turkey:
  5.6% (plus underemployment of 5.6%) (2000 est.)

Turkmenistan:
  NA%

Turks and Caicos Islands:
  10% (1997 est.)

Tuvalu:
  NA%

Uganda:
  NA%

Ukraine:
  4.3% officially registered; large number of unregistered or
  underemployed workers (December 1999)

United Arab Emirates:
  NA%

United Kingdom:
  5.5% (2000 est.)

United States:
  4% (2000)

Uruguay:
  14% (2000 est.)

Uzbekistan:
  10% plus another 20% underemployed (1999 est.)

Vanuatu:
  NA%

Venezuela:
  14% (2000 est.)

Vietnam:
  25% (1995 est.)

Virgin Islands:
  4.9% (March 1999)

Wallis and Futuna:
  NA%

West Bank:
  40% (includes Gaza Strip) (yearend 2000)

Western Sahara:
  NA%

World:
  30% combined unemployment and underemployment in many
  non-industrialized countries; developed countries typically 4%-12%
  unemployment (2000 est.)

Yemen:
  30% (1995 est.)

Yugoslavia:
  30% (2000 est.)

Zambia:
  50% (2000 est.)

Zimbabwe:
  50% (2000 est.)

Taiwan:
  3% (2000 est.)

======================================================================

@Waterways



Afghanistan:
  1,200 km

  note:  chiefly Amu Darya, which handles vessels with DWT up to about
  500 (2001)

Albania:
  43 km

  note:  includes Albanian sections of Lake Scutari, Lake Ohrid, and
  Lake Prespa (1990)

Algeria:
  none

American Samoa:
  none

Andorra:
  none

Angola:
  1,295 km

Anguilla:
  none

Antigua and Barbuda:
  none

Argentina:
  10,950 km

Armenia:
  NA km

Aruba:
  none

Ashmore and Cartier Islands:
  none

Australia:
  8,368 km (mainly used by small, shallow-draft craft)

Austria:
  358 km (1999)

Azerbaijan:
  none

Bahamas, The:
  none

Bahrain:
  none

Baker Island:
  none

Bangladesh:
  up to 8,046 km depending on season

  note:  includes 3,058 km main cargo routes

Barbados:
  none

Bassas da India:
  none

Belarus:
  NA km; note - Belarus has extensive and widely used canal
  and river systems

Belgium:
  2,043 km (1,528 km in regular commercial use)

Belize:
  825 km (river network used by shallow-draft craft;
  seasonally navigable)

Benin:
  streams navigable along small sections, important only locally

Bermuda:
  none

Bhutan:
  none

Bolivia:
  10,000 km (commercially navigable)

Bosnia and Herzegovina:
  NA km; large sections of the Sava blocked by
  downed bridges, silt, and debris

Botswana:
  none

Bouvet Island:
  none

Brazil:
  50,000 km

British Indian Ocean Territory:
  none

British Virgin Islands:
  none

Brunei:
  209 km; navigable by craft drawing less than 1.2 m

Bulgaria:
  470 km (1987)

Burkina Faso:
  none

Burma:
  12,800 km

  note:  3,200 km navigable by large commercial vessels

Burundi:
  Lake Tanganyika

Cambodia:
  3,700 km

  note:  navigable all year to craft drawing 0.6 m or less; 282 km
  navigable to craft drawing as much as 1.8 m

Cameroon:
  2,090 km (of decreasing importance)

Canada:
  3,000 km (including Saint Lawrence Seaway)

Cape Verde:
  none

Cayman Islands:
  none

Central African Republic:
  900 km

  note:  traditional trade carried on by means of shallow-draft
  dugouts; Oubangui is the most important river, navigable all year to
  craft drawing 0.6 m or less; 282 km navigable to craft drawing as
  much as 1.8 m

Chad:
  2,000 km

Chile:
  725 km

China:
  110,000 km (1999)

Christmas Island:
  none

Clipperton Island:
  none

Cocos (Keeling) Islands:
  none

Colombia:
  18,140 km (navigable by river boats) (April 1996)

Comoros:
  none

Congo, Democratic Republic of the:
  15,000 km (including the Congo
  and its tributaries, and unconnected lakes)

Congo, Republic of the:
  1,120 km

  note:  the Congo and Ubangi (Oubangui) rivers provide 1,120 km of
  commercially navigable water transport; other rivers are used for
  local traffic only

Cook Islands:
  none

Coral Sea Islands:
  none

Costa Rica:
  730 km (seasonally navigable)

Cote d'Ivoire:
  980 km (navigable rivers, canals, and numerous
  coastal lagoons)

Croatia:
  785 km

  note:  (perennially navigable; large sections of Sava blocked by
  downed bridges, silt, and debris)

Cuba:
  240 km

Cyprus:
  none

Czech Republic:
  303 km

  note:  (the Labe (Elbe) is the principal river) (2000)

Denmark:
  417 km

Djibouti:
  none

Dominica:
  none

Dominican Republic:
  none

Ecuador:
  1,500 km

Egypt:
  3,500 km

  note:  including the Nile, Lake Nasser, Alexandria-Cairo Waterway,
  and numerous smaller canals in the delta; Suez Canal (193.5 km
  including approaches), used by oceangoing vessels drawing up to 16.1
  m of water

El Salvador:
  Rio Lempa partially navigable

Equatorial Guinea:
  none

Eritrea:
  none

Estonia:
  320 km (perennially navigable)

Ethiopia:
  none

Europa Island:
  none

Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas):
  none

Faroe Islands:
  none

Fiji:
  203 km

  note:  122 km navigable by motorized craft and 200-metric-ton barges

Finland:
  6,675 km

  note:  includes Saimaa Canal; 3,700 km suitable for large ships

France:
  14,932 km (6,969 km heavily traveled)

French Guiana:
  3,300 km navigable by native craft

  note:  460 km navigable by small oceangoing vessels and coastal and
  river steamers

French Polynesia:
  none

French Southern and Antarctic Lands:
  none

Gabon:
  1,600 km (perennially navigable)

Gambia, The:
  400 km

Gaza Strip:
  none

Georgia:
  none

Germany:
  7,500 km

  note:  major rivers include the Rhine and Elbe; Kiel Canal is an
  important connection between the Baltic Sea and North Sea (1999)

Ghana:
  1,293 km

  note:  Volta, Ankobra, and Tano Rivers provide 168 km of perennial
  navigation for launches and lighters; Lake Volta provides 1,125 km
  of arterial and feeder waterways

Gibraltar:
  none

Glorioso Islands:
  none

Greece:
  80 km

  note:  system consists of three coastal canals including the Corinth
  Canal (6 km) which crosses the Isthmus of Corinth connecting the
  Gulf of Corinth with the Saronic Gulf and shortens the sea voyage
  from the Adriatic to Peiraiefs (Piraeus) by 325 km; there are also
  three unconnected rivers

Greenland:
  none

Grenada:
  none

Guadeloupe:
  none

Guam:
  none

Guatemala:
  990 km

  note:  260 km navigable year round; additional 730 km navigable
  during highwater season

Guernsey:
  none

Guinea:
  1,295 km (navigable by shallow-draft native craft)

Guinea-Bissau:
  several rivers are accessible to coastal shipping

Guyana:
  5,900 km (total length of navigable waterways)

  note:  Berbice, Demerara, and Essequibo rivers are navigable by
  oceangoing vessels for 150 km, 100 km, and 80 km, respectively

Haiti:
  NEGL; less than 100 km navigable

Heard Island and McDonald Islands:
  none

Holy See (Vatican City):
  none

Honduras:
  465 km (navigable by small craft)

Hong Kong:
  none

Howland Island:
  none

Hungary:
  1,373 km (permanently navigable) (1997)

Iceland:
  none

India:
  16,180 km

  note:  3,631 km navigable by large vessels

Indonesia:
  21,579 km total

  note:  Sumatra 5,471 km, Java and Madura 820 km, Kalimantan 10,460
  km, Sulawesi (Celebes) 241 km, Irian Jaya 4,587 km

Iran:
  904 km

  note:  the Shatt al Arab is usually navigable by maritime traffic
  for about 130 km; channel has been dredged to 3 m and is in use

Iraq:
  1,015 km

  note:  Shatt al Arab is usually navigable by maritime traffic for
  about 130 km; channel has been dredged to 3 m and is in use; Tigris
  and Euphrates Rivers have navigable sections for shallow-draft
  boats; Shatt al Basrah canal was navigable by shallow-draft craft
  before closing in 1991 because of the Gulf war

Ireland:
  700 km (limited facilities for commercial traffic) (1998)

Israel:
  none

Italy:
  2,400 km

  note:  for various types of commercial traffic, although of limited
  overall value

Jamaica:
  none

Jan Mayen:
  none

Japan:
  1,770 km approximately

  note:  seagoing craft ply all coastal inland seas

Jarvis Island:
  none

Jersey:
  none

Johnston Atoll:
  none

Jordan:
  none

Juan de Nova Island:
  none

Kazakhstan:
  3,900 km

  note:  on the Syrdariya (Syr Darya) and Ertis (Irtysh) rivers

Kenya:
  NA

  note:  part of the Lake Victoria system is within the boundaries of
  Kenya

Kingman Reef:
  none

Kiribati:
  5 km (small network of canals in Line Islands)

Korea, North:
  2,253 km

  note:  mostly navigable by small craft only

Korea, South:
  1,609 km

  note:  restricted to small native craft

Kuwait:
  none

Kyrgyzstan:
  600 km (1990)

Laos:
  4,587 km approximately

  note:  primarily Mekong and tributaries; 2,897 additional km are
  intermittently navigable by craft drawing less than 0.5 m

Latvia:
  300 km (perennially navigable)

Lebanon:
  none

Lesotho:
  none

Liberia:
  none

Libya:
  none

Liechtenstein:
  none

Lithuania:
  600 km (perennially navigable)

Luxembourg:
  37 km (on the Moselle)

Macau:
  none

Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of:
  note:  lake transport
  only, on the Greek and Albanian borders

Madagascar:
  note:  of local importance only

Malawi:
  144 km

  note:  on Lake Nyasa (Lake Malawi) and Shire Riverall

Malaysia:
  7,296 km

  note:  Peninsular Malaysia 3,209 km, Sabah 1,569 km, Sarawak 2,518 km

Maldives:
  none

Mali:
  1,815 km

Malta:
  none

Man, Isle of:
  none

Marshall Islands:
  none

Martinique:
  none

Mauritania:
  note:  ferry traffic on the Senegal River

Mauritius:
  none

Mayotte:
  none

Mexico:
  2,900 km

  note:  navigable rivers and coastal canals

Micronesia, Federated States of:
  none

Midway Islands:
  none

Moldova:
  424 km (1994)

Monaco:
  none

Mongolia:
  400 km (1999)

Montserrat:
  none

Morocco:
  none

Mozambique:
  3,750 km (navigable routes)

Namibia:
  none

Nauru:
  none

Navassa Island:
  none

Nepal:
  none

Netherlands:
  5,046 km

  note:  47% of total route length is usable by craft of 1,000 metric
  ton capacity or larger

Netherlands Antilles:
  none

New Caledonia:
  none

New Zealand:
  1,609 km

  note:  of little importance in satisfying total transportation
  requirements

Nicaragua:
  2,220 km (including 2 large lakes)

Niger:
  300 km

  note:  the Niger River is navigable from Niamey to Gaya on the Benin
  frontier from mid-December through March

Nigeria:
  8,575 km

  note:  consisting of the Niger and Benue rivers and smaller rivers
  and creeks

Niue:
  none

Norfolk Island:
  none

Northern Mariana Islands:
  none

Norway:
  1,577 km (along west coast)

  note:  navigable by 2.4 m maximum draft vessels

Oman:
  none

Pakistan:
  none

Palau:
  none

Palmyra Atoll:
  none

Panama:
  882 km

  note:  800 km navigable by shallow draft vessels; 82 km Panama Canal

Papua New Guinea:
  10,940 km

Paracel Islands:
  none

Paraguay:
  3,100 km

Peru:
  8,808 km

  note:  8,600 km of navigable tributaries of Amazon system and 208 km
  of Lago Titicaca

Philippines:
  3,219 km

  note:  limited to vessels with a draft of less than 1.5 m

Pitcairn Islands:
  none

Poland:
  3,812 km (navigable rivers and canals) (1996)

Portugal:
  820 km

  note:  relatively unimportant to national economy, used by
  shallow-draft craft limited to 300 metric-ton or less cargo capacity

Puerto Rico:
  none

Qatar:
  none

Reunion:
  none

Romania:
  1,724 km (1984)

Russia:
  95,900 km (total routes in general use)

  note:  routes with navigation guides serving the Russian River
  Fleet-95,900 km; routes with night navigational aids-60,400 km;
  man-made navigable routes-16,900 km (Jan 1994)

Rwanda:
  note:  Lac Kivu navigable by shallow-draft barges and native
  craft

Saint Helena:
  none

Saint Kitts and Nevis:
  none

Saint Lucia:
  none

Saint Pierre and Miquelon:
  none

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:
  none

Samoa:
  none

San Marino:
  none

Sao Tome and Principe:
  none

Saudi Arabia:
  none

Senegal:
  897 km

  note:  785 km on the Senegal river, and 112 km on the Saloum river

Seychelles:
  none

Sierra Leone:
  800 km (of which 600 km navigable year round)

Singapore:
  none

Slovakia:
  172 km (all on the Danube)

Slovenia:
  NA

Solomon Islands:
  none

Somalia:
  none

South Africa:
  NA

South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands:
  none

Spain:
  1,045 km (of minor economic importance)

Spratly Islands:
  none

Sri Lanka:
  430 km (navigable by shallow-draft craft)

Sudan:
  5,310 km

Suriname:
  1,200 km

  note:  most important means of transport; oceangoing vessels with
  drafts ranging up to 7 m can navigate many of the principal waterways

Svalbard:
  none

Swaziland:
  none

Sweden:
  2,052 km

  note:  navigable for small steamers and barges

Switzerland:
  65 km

  note:  The Rhine carries heavy traffic on the Basel-Rheinfelden and
  Schaffhausen-Bodensee stretches; there are also 12 navigable lakes

Syria:
  870 km (minimal economic importance)

Tajikistan:
  none

Tanzania:
  note:  Lake Tanganyika, Lake Victoria, and Lake Nyasa are
  principal avenues of commerce between Tanzania and its neighbors on
  those lakes

Thailand:
  4,000 km

  note:  3,701 km are navigable throughout the year by boats with
  drafts up to 0.9 meters; numerous minor waterways serve
  shallow-draft native craft

Togo:
  50 km (Mono river)

Tokelau:
  none

Tonga:
  none

Trinidad and Tobago:
  none

Tromelin Island:
  none

Tunisia:
  none

Turkey:
  1,200 km (approximately)

Turkmenistan:
  the Amu Darya is an important inland waterway for
  Turkmenistan

Turks and Caicos Islands:
  none

Tuvalu:
  none

Uganda:
  Lake Victoria, Lake Albert, Lake Kyoga, Lake George, Lake
  Edward, Victoria Nile, Albert Nile

Ukraine:
  4,499 km

  note:  (1,672 km are on the Pryp'yat' and Dnistr) (1990)

United Arab Emirates:
  none

United Kingdom:
  3,200 km

United States:
  41,009 km

  note:  navigable inland channels, exclusive of the Great Lakes

Uruguay:
  1,600 km ( used by coastal and shallow-draft river craft)

Uzbekistan:
  1,100 km (1990)

Vanuatu:
  none

Venezuela:
  7,100 km

  note:  Rio Orinoco and Lago de Maracaibo accept oceangoing vessels

Vietnam:
  17,702 km

  note:  more than 5,149 km are navigable at all times by vessels up
  to 1.8 m draft

Virgin Islands:
  none

Wake Island:
  none

Wallis and Futuna:
  none

West Bank:
  none

Western Sahara:
  none

Yemen:
  none

Yugoslavia:
  587 km

  note:  The Danube River, which connects Europe with the Black Sea,
  runs through Serbia; since early 2000, a pontoon bridge, replacing a
  destroyed conventional bridge, has obstructed river traffic at Novi
  Sad; the obstruction can be bypassed by a canal system but
  inadequate lock size limits the size of vessels which may pass (2001)

Zambia:
  2,250 km

  note:  includes Lake Tanganyika and the Zambezi and Luapula rivers

Zimbabwe:
  the Mazoe and Zambezi rivers are used for transporting
  chrome ore from Harare to Mozambique

Taiwan:
  NA

======================================================================

Appendix A: Abbreviations


ABEDA:  Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa

ACC:  Arab Cooperation Council

ACCT:  Agency for the French-Speaking Community

ACP Group:  African, Caribbean, and Pacific Group of States

AfDB:  African Development Bank

AFESD:  Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development

Air Pollution:  Convention on Long-Range Transboundary Air Pollution

Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides:  Protocol to the 1979 Convention on
Long-Range Transboundary Air Pollution Concerning the Control of
Emissions of Nitrogen Oxides or Control of Emissions of Nitrogen Oxides
or Their Transboundary Fluxes

Air Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants:  Protocol to the 1979
Convention on Long-Range Transboundary Air Pollution on Persistent
Organic Pollutants

Air Pollution-Sulphur 85:  Protocol to the 1979 Convention on Long-
Range Transboundary Air Pollution on the Reduction of Sulphur Emissions
or Their Transboundary Fluxes by at Least 30%

Air Pollution-Sulphur 94:  Protocol to the 1979 Convention on Long-
Range Transboundary Air Pollution on Further Reduction of Sulphur
Emissions

Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds:  Protocol to the 1979
Convention on Long-Range Transboundary Air Pollution Concerning the
Control of Emissions of Volatile Organic Compounds or Their
Transboundary Fluxes

AL:  Arab League

AMF:  Arab Monetary Fund

AMU:  Arab Maghreb Union

Antarctic-Environmental Protocol:  Protocol on Environmental Protection
to the Antarctic Treaty

ANZUS:  Australia-New Zealand-United States Security Treaty

APEC:  Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation

Arabsat:  Arab Satellite Communications Organization

ARF:  ASEAN Regional Forum

AsDB:  Asian Development Bank

ASEAN:  Association of Southeast Asian Nations

Autodin:  Automatic Digital Network

Benelux:  Benelux Economic Union

Biodiversity:  Convention on Biological Diversity

BIS:  Bank for International Settlements

BSEC:  Black Sea Economic Cooperation Zone

C:  Commonwealth

CACM:  Central American Common Market

CAEU:  Council of Arab Economic Unity

CAN:  Andean Community of Nations

Caricom:  Caribbean Community and Common Market

CB:  citizen's band mobile radio communications

CBSS:  Council of the Baltic Sea States

CCC:  Customs Cooperation Council

CDB:  Caribbean Development Bank

CE:  Council of Europe

CEI:  Central European Initiative

CEMA:  Council for Mutual Economic Assistance; also known as CMEA or
Comecon

CEMAC:  Monetary and Economic Community of Central Africa

CEPGL:  Economic Community of the Great Lakes Countries

CERN:  European Organization for Nuclear Research

c.i.f.:  cost, insurance, and freight

CIS:  Commonwealth of Independent States

CITES:  see Endangered Species

Climate Change:  United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change

Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol:  Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations
Framework Convention on Climate Change

COCOM:  Coordinating Committee on Export Controls

Comsat:  Communications Satellite Corporation

CP:  Colombo Plan

CY:  calendar year

DC:  developed country

Desertification:  United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification
in Those Countries Experiencing Serious Drought and/or Desertification,
Particularly in Africa

DSN:  Defense Switched Network

DWT:  deadweight ton

EADB:  East African Development Bank

EAPC:  Euro-Atlantic Partnership Council

EBRD:  European Bank for Reconstruction and Development

EC:  European Community

ECA:  Economic Commission for Africa

ECE:  Economic Commission for Europe

ECLAC:  Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean

ECO:  Economic Cooperation Organization

ECOSOC:  Economic and Social Council

ECOWAS:  Economic Community of West African States

ECS:  European Coal and Steel Community

EEC:  European Economic Community

EFTA:  European Free Trade Association

EIB:  European Investment Bank

EMU:  European Monetary Union

Endangered Species:  Convention on the International Trade in
Endangered Species of Wild Flora and Fauna (CITES)

Entente:  Council of the Entente

Environmental Modification:  Convention on the Prohibition of Military
or Any Other Hostile Use of Environmental Modification Techniques

ESA:  European Space Agency

ESCAP:  Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific

ESCWA:  Economic and Social Commission for Western Asia

est.:  estimate

EU:  European Union

Euratom:  European Atomic Energy Community

Eutelsat:  European Telecommunications Satellite Organization

Ex-Im:  Export-Import Bank of the United States

FAO:  Food and Agriculture Organization

FAX:  facsimile

f.o.b.:  free on board

FLS:  Front Line States

FRG:  Federal Republic of  Germany (West Germany); used for information
dated before 3 October 1990 or CY91

FSU:  former Soviet Union

FY:  fiscal year

FYROM:  The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia

FZ:  Franc Zone

G-2:  Group of 2

G-3:  Group of 3

G-5:  Group of 5

G-6:  Group of 6

G-7:  Group of 7

G-8:  Group of 8

G-9:  Group of 9

G-10:  Group of 10

G-11:  Group of 11

G-15:  Group of 15

G-19:  Group of 19

G-24:  Group of 24

G-30:  Group of 30

G-33:  Group of 33

G-77:  Group of 77

GATT:  General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade; now WTrO

GCC:  Gulf Cooperation Council

GDP:  gross domestic product

GDR:  German Democratic Republic (East Germany); used for information
dated before 3 October 1990 or CY91

GNP:  gross national product

GRT:  gross register ton

GWP:  gross world product

Habitat:  United Nations Center for Human Settlements

Hazardous Wastes:  Basel Convention on the Control of Transboundary
Movements of Hazardous Wastes and Their Disposal

HF:  high-frequency

IADB:  Inter-American Development Bank

IAEA:  International Atomic Energy Agency

IBEC:  International Bank for Economic Cooperation

IBRD:  International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (World
Bank)

ICAO:  International Civil Aviation Organization

ICC:  International Chamber of Commerce

ICJ:  International Court of Justice (World Court)

ICRC:  International Committee of the Red Cross

ICRM:  International Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement

ICTR:  International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda

ICTY:  International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia

IDA:  International Development Association

IDB:  Islamic Development Bank

IEA:  International Energy Agency

IFAD:  International Fund for Agricultural Development

IFC:  International Finance Corporation

IFCTU:  International Federation of Christian Trade Unions

IFRCS:  International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent
Societies

IGAD:  Inter-Governmental Authority on Development

IGADD:  Inter-Governmental Authority on Drought and Development

IHO:  International Hydrographic Organization

IIB:  International Investment Bank

ILO:  International Labor Organization

IMF:  International Monetary Fund

IMO:  International Maritime Organization

Inmarsat:  International Mobile Satellite Organization

InOC:  Indian Ocean Commission

INSTRAW:  International Research and Training Institute for the
Advancement of Women

Intelsat:  International Telecommunications Satellite Organization

Interpol:  International Criminal Police Organization

Intersputnik:  International Organization of Space Communications

IOC:  International Olympic Committee

IOM:  International Organization for Migration

ISO:  International Organization for Standardization

ITU:  International Telecommunication Union

kHz:  kilohertz

km:  kilometer

kW:  kilowatt

kWh:  kilowatt-hour

LAES:  Latin American Economic System

LAIA:  Latin American Integration Association

Law of the Sea:  United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (LOS)

LDC:  less developed country

LLDC:  least developed country

London Convention:  see Marine Dumping

LOS:  see Law of the Sea

m:  meter

Marecs:  Maritime European Communications Satellite

Marine Dumping:  Convention on the Prevention of Marine Pollution by
Dumping Wastes and Other Matter

Marine Life Conservation:  Convention on Fishing and Conservation of
Living Resources of the High Seas

MARPOL:  see Ship Pollution

Medarabtel:  Middle East Telecommunications Project of the
International Telecommunications Union

Mercosur:  Southern Cone Common Market

MHz:  megahertz

MINURSO:  United Nations Mission for the Referendum in Western Sahara

MONUC:  United Nations Organization Mission in the Democratic Republic
of the Congo

NA:  not available

NAM:  Nonaligned Movement

NATO:  North Atlantic Treaty Organization

NC:  Nordic Council

NEA:  Nuclear Energy Agency

NEGL:  negligible

NIB:  Nordic Investment Bank

NIC:  newly industrializing country

NIE:  newly industrializing economy

NIS:  new independent states

NM:  nautical mile

NMT:  Nordic Mobile Telephone

NSG:  Nuclear Suppliers Group

Nuclear Test Ban:  Treaty Banning Nuclear Weapons Tests in the
Atmosphere, in Outer Space, and Under Water

NZ:  New Zealand

OAPEC:  Organization of Arab Petroleum Exporting Countries

OAS:  Organization of American States

OAU:  Organization of African Unity

ODA:  official development assistance

OECD:  Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development

OECS:  Organization of Eastern Caribbean States

OIC:  Organization of the Islamic Conference

OOF:  other official flows

OPCW:  Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons

OPEC:  Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries

OSCE:  Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe

Ozone Layer Protection:  Montreal Protocol on Substances That Deplete
the Ozone Layer

PCA:  Permanent Court of Arbitration

PDRY:  People's Democratic Republic of Yemen [Yemen (Aden) or South
Yemen]; used for information dated before 22 May 1990 or CY91

PFP:  Partnership for Peace

Ramsar:  see Wetlands

RG:  Rio Group

SAARC:  South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation

SACU:  Southern African Customs Union

SADC:  Southern African Development Community

SFRY:  Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia

SHF:  super-high-frequency

Ship Pollution:  Protocol of 1978 Relating to the International
Convention for the Prevention of Pollution From Ships, 1973 (MARPOL)

Sparteca:  South Pacific Regional Trade and Economic Cooperation
Agreement

SPC:  South Pacific Commission

SPF:  South Pacific Forum

sq km:  square kilometer

sq mi:  square mile

TAT:  Trans-Atlantic Telephone

Tropical Timber 83:  International Tropical Timber Agreement, 1983

Tropical Timber 94:  International Tropical Timber Agreement, 1994

UAE:  United Arab Emirates

UHF:  ultra-high-frequency

UK:  United Kingdom

UN:  United Nations

UNAMIR:  United Nations Assistance Mission for Rwanda

UNAMSIL:  United Nations Mission in Sierra Leone

UNAVEM III:  United Nations Angola Verification Mission III

UNCRO:  United Nations Confidence Restoration Operation in Croatia

UNCTAD:  United Nations Conference on Trade and Development

UNDCP:  United Nations Drug Control Program

UNDOF:  United Nations Disengagement Observer Force

UNDP:  United Nations Development Program

UNEP:  United Nations Environment Program

UNESCO:  United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural
Organization

UNFICYP:  United Nations Peace-keeping Force in Cyprus

UNHCR:  United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees

UNHCRHR:  United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights

UNICEF:  United Nations Children's Fund

UNICRI:  United Nations Interregional Crime and Justice Research
Institute

UNIDIR:  United Nations Disarmament Research

UNIDO:  United Nations Industrial Development Organization

UNIFIL:  United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon

UNIKOM:  United Nations Iraq-Kuwait Observation Mission

UNITAR:  United Nations Institute for Training and Research

UNMEE:  United Nations Mission in Ethiopia and Eritrea

UNMIBH:  United Nations Mission in Bosnia and Herzegovina

UNMIK:  United Nations Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo

UNMOGIP:  United Nations Military Observer Group in India and Pakistan

UNMOP:  United Nations Mission of Observers in Prevlaka

UNMOT:  United Nations Mission of Observers in Tajikistan

UNMOVIC:  United Nations Monitoring and Verification Commission

UNOMIG:  United Nations Observer Mission in Georgia

UNOMSIL:  United Nations Mission of Observers in Sierra Leone

UNRISD:  United Nations Research Institute for Social Development

UNRWA:  United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees
in the Near East

UNSMIH:  United Nations Support Mission in Haiti

UNTAET:  United Nations Transitional Administration in East Timor

UNTSO:  United Nations Truce Supervision Organization

UNU:  United Nations University

UPU:  Universal Postal Union

US:  United States

USSR:  Union of Soviet Socialist Republics (Soviet Union); used for
information dated before 25 December 1991

USSR/EE:  Union of Soviet Socialist Republics/Eastern Europe

VHF:  very-high-frequency

VSAT:  very small aperture terminal

WADB:  West African Development Bank

WAEMU:  West African Economic and Monetary Union

WCL:  World Confederation of Labor

Wetlands:  Convention on Wetlands of International Importance
Especially As Waterfowl Habitat

WEU:  Western European Union

WFC:  World Food Council

WFP:  World Food Program

WFTU:  World Federation of Trade Unions

Whaling:  International Convention for the Regulation of Whaling

WHO:  World Health Organization

WIPO:  World Intellectual Property Organization

WMO:  World Meteorological Organization

WP:  Warsaw Pact

WTO:  see WToO for World Tourism Organization or WTrO for World Trade
Organization

WToO:  World Tourism Organization

WTrO:  World Trade Organization

YAR:  Yemen Arab Republic [Yemen (Sanaa) or North Yemen]; used for
information dated before 22 May 1990 or CY91

ZC:  Zangger Committee



=====================================================================



Appendix B: International Organizations and Groups


advanced developing countries:  another term for those less developed
countries (LDCs) with particularly rapid industrial development; see
newly industrializing economies (NIEs)

advanced economies:  a term used by the International Monetary FUND
(IMF) for the top group in its hierarchy of advanced economies,
countries in transition, and developing countries; it includes the
following 28 advanced economies: Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada,
Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hong Kong, Iceland, Ireland,
Israel, Italy, Japan, South Korea, Luxembourg, Netherlands, NZ, Norway,
Portugal, Singapore, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Taiwan, UK, US; note -
this group would presumably also cover the following seven smaller
countries of Andorra, Bermuda, Faroe Islands, Holy See, Liechtenstein,
Monaco, and San Marino which are included in the more comprehensive
group of "developed countries"

African, Caribbean, and Pacific Group of States (ACP Group):
established - 6 June 1975

aim - to manage their preferential economic and aid relationship with
the EU

members - (77) Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, The Bahamas, Barbados,
Belize, Benin, Botswana, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cameroon, Cape Verde,
Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Democratic Republic of the
Congo, Republic of the Congo, Cook Islands, Cote d'Ivoire, Djibouti,
Dominica, Dominican Republic, Equatorial Guinea, Eritrea, Ethiopia,
Fiji, Gabon, The Gambia, Ghana, Grenada, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana,
Haiti, Jamaica, Kenya, Kiribati, Lesotho, Liberia, Madagascar, Malawi,
Mali, Marshall Islands, Mauritania, Mauritius, Federated States of
Micronesia, Mozambique, Namibia, Nauru, Niger, Nigeria, Niue, Palau,
Papua New Guinea, Rwanda, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint
Vincent and the Grenadines, Samoa, Sao Tome and Principe, Senegal,
Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Solomon Islands, Somalia, South Africa,
Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Tanzania, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago,
Tuvalu, Uganda, Vanuatu, Zambia, Zimbabwe

African Development Bank (AfDB):  note - also known as Banque Africaine
de Developpement (BAD)

established - 4 August 1963

aim - to promote economic and social development

regional members - (53) Algeria, Angola, Benin, Botswana, Burkina
Faso,  Burundi, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad,
Comoros, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Republic of the Congo, Cote
d'Ivoire, Djibouti, Egypt, Equatorial Guinea, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Gabon,
The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Kenya, Lesotho, Liberia,
Libya, Madagascar, Malawi, Mali, Mauritania, Mauritius, Morocco,
Mozambique, Namibia, Niger, Nigeria, Rwanda, Sao Tome and Principe,
Senegal, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Somalia, South Africa, Sudan,
Swaziland, Tanzania, Togo, Tunisia, Uganda, Zambia, Zimbabwe

nonregional members - (24) Argentina, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Canada,
China, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, India, Italy, Japan, South
Korea, Kuwait, Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Saudi Arabia, Spain,
Sweden, Switzerland, UK, US

Agency for the French-Speaking Community (ACCT):  note - formerly
Agency for Cultural and Technical Cooperation

established - 20 March 1970; name changed 1996

aim - to promote cultural and technical cooperation among French-
speaking countries

members - (41) Belgium, Benin, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burundi,
Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad,
Comoros, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Republic of the Congo, Cote
d'Ivoire, Djibouti, Dominica, Equatorial Guinea, France, Gabon, Guinea,
Haiti, Laos, Lebanon, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Mali, Mauritius, Moldova,
Monaco, Niger, Romania, Rwanda, Sao Tome and Principe, Senegal,
Seychelles, Switzerland, Togo, Tunisia, Vanuatu, Vietnam

associate members - (7) Albania, Egypt, Guinea-Bissau, The Former
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Mauritania, Morocco, Saint Lucia

observers - (4) Czech Republic, Lithuania, Poland, Slovenia

participating governments - (2) New Brunswick (Canada), Quebec (Canada)

Agency for the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons in Latin America and the
Caribbean (OPANAL):  note - acronym from Organismo para la Proscripcion
de las Armas Nucleares en la America Latina y el Caribe (OPANAL)

established - 14 February 1967 under the Treaty of Tlatelolco;
effective - 25 April 1969 on the 11th ratification of the treaty

aim - to encourage the peaceful uses of atomic energy and prohibit
nuclear weapons

members - (32) Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, The Bahamas, Barbados,
Belize, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Dominica,
Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Grenada, Guatemala, Guyana,
Haiti, Honduras, Jamaica, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama, Paraguay, Peru,
Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines,
Suriname, Trinidad and Tobago, Uruguay, Venezuela; note - Cuba signed
the treaty but did not ratify it

Andean Community of Nations (CAN):  note - formerly known as the Andean
Group (AG), the Andean Parliament, and most recently as the Andean
Common Market (Ancom)

established - 26 May 1969; present name established 1 October 1992;
effective - 16 October 1969

aim - to promote harmonious development through economic integration

members - (5) Bolivia, Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, Venezuela

Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa (ABEDA):  note - also
known as Banque Arabe de Developpement Economique en Afrique (BADEA)

established - 18 February 1974; effective - 16 September 1974

aim - to promote economic development

members - (17 plus the Palestine Liberation Organization) Algeria,
Bahrain, Egypt, Iraq, Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Libya, Mauritania,
Morocco, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Sudan, Syria, Tunisia, UAE,
Palestine Liberation Organization; note - these are all the members of
the Arab League excluding Comoros, Djibouti, Somalia, Yemen

Arab Cooperation Council (ACC):  established - 16 February 1989

aim - to promote economic cooperation and integration, possibly leading
to an Arab Common Market

members - (4) Egypt, Iraq, Jordan, Yemen

Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development (AFESD):  established -
16 May 1968

aim - to promote economic and social development

members - (20 plus the Palestine Liberation Organization) Algeria,
Bahrain, Djibouti, Egypt, Iraq (suspended 1993), Jordan, Kuwait,
Lebanon, Libya, Mauritania, Morocco, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Somalia
(suspended 1993), Sudan, Syria, Tunisia, UAE, Yemen, Palestine
Liberation Organization

Arab League (AL):  note - also known as League of Arab States (LAS)

established - 22 March 1945

aim - to promote economic, social, political, and military cooperation

members - (21 plus the Palestine Liberation Organization) Algeria,
Bahrain, Comoros, Djibouti, Egypt, Iraq, Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon,
Libya, Mauritania, Morocco, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Somalia, Sudan,
Syria, Tunisia, UAE, Yemen, Palestine Liberation Organization

Arab Maghreb Union (AMU):  established - 17 February 1989

aim - to promote cooperation and integration among the Arab states of
northern Africa

members - (5) Algeria, Libya, Mauritania, Morocco, Tunisia

Arab Monetary Fund (AMF):  established - 27 April 1976; effective - 2
February 1977

aim - to promote Arab cooperation, development, and integration in
monetary and economic affairs

members - (20 plus the Palestine Liberation Organization) Algeria,
Bahrain, Djibouti, Egypt, Iraq, Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Libya,
Mauritania, Morocco, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Somalia, Sudan, Syria,
Tunisia, UAE, Yemen, Palestine Liberation Organization

Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC):  established - 7 November
1989

aim - to promote trade and investment in the Pacific basin

members - (21) Australia, Brunei, Canada, Chile, China, Hong Kong,
Indonesia, Japan, South Korea, Malaysia, Mexico, NZ, Papua New Guinea,
Peru, Philippines, Russia, Singapore, Taiwan, Thailand, US, Vietnam

observers - (3) Association of Southeast Asian Nations, Pacific
Economic Cooperation Conference, South Pacific Forum

Asian Development Bank (AsDB):  established - 19 December 1966

aim - to promote regional economic cooperation

regional members - (43) Afghanistan, Australia, Azerbaijan, Bangladesh,
Bhutan, Burma, Cambodia, China, Cook Islands, Fiji, Hong Kong, India,
Indonesia, Japan, Kazakhstan, Kiribati, South Korea, Kyrgyzstan, Laos,
Malaysia, Maldives, Marshall Islands, Federated States of Micronesia,
Mongolia, Nauru, Nepal, NZ, Pakistan, Papua New Guinea, Philippines,
Samoa, Singapore, Solomon Islands, Sri Lanka, Taiwan, Tajikistan,
Thailand, Tonga, Turkmenistan, Tuvalu, Uzbekistan, Vanuatu, Vietnam

nonregional members - (16) Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Finland,
France, Germany, Italy, Netherlands, Norway, Spain, Sweden,
Switzerland, Turkey, UK, US

Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN):  established - 8 August
1967

aim - to encourage regional economic, social, and cultural cooperation
among the non-Communist countries of Southeast Asia

members - (10) Brunei, Burma, Cambodia, Indonesia, Laos, Malaysia,
Philippines, Singapore, Thailand, Vietnam

observer - (1) Papua New Guinea

dialogue partners - (11) Australia, Canada, China, EU, India, Japan,
South Korea, NZ, Russia, US, UNDP

ASEAN Regional Forum (ARF):  established - NA 1994

aim - to foster constructive dialogue and consultation on political and
security issues of common interest and concern

members - (10) Brunei, Burma, Cambodia, Indonesia, Laos, Malaysia,
Philippines, Singapore, Thailand, Vietnam

dialogue partners - (13) Australia, Canada, China, EU, India, Japan,
North Korea, South Korea, Mongolia, NZ, Papua New Guinea, Russia, US

Australia Group:  established - NA 1984

aim - to consult on and coordinate export controls related to chemical
and biological weapons

members - (33) Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Cyprus,
Czech Republic, Denmark, European Commission, Finland, France, Germany,
Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Japan, South Korea,
Luxembourg, Netherlands, NZ, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania,
Slovakia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, UK, US

observer - (1) Singapore

Australia-New Zealand-United States Security Treaty (ANZUS):
established - 1 September 1951; effective - 29 April 1952

aim - to implement a trilateral mutual security agreement, although the
US suspended security obligations to NZ on 11 August 1986; Australia
and the US continue to hold annual meetings

members - (3) Australia, NZ, US

Bank for International Settlements (BIS):  established - 20 January
1930; effective - 17 March 1930

aim - to promote cooperation among central banks in international
financial settlements

members - (49) Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bosnia and
Herzegovina, Brazil, Bulgaria, Canada, China, Croatia, Czech Republic,
Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hong Kong, Hungary,
Iceland, India, Ireland, Italy, Japan, South Korea, Latvia, Lithuania,
The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Malaysia, Mexico,
Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russia, Saudi Arabia,
Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, South Africa, Spain, Sweden,
Switzerland, Thailand, Turkey, UK, US, Yugoslavia

Benelux Economic Union (Benelux):  note - acronym from Belgium,
Netherlands, and Luxembourg

established - 3 February 1958; effective - 1 November 1960

aim - to develop closer economic cooperation and integration

members - (3) Belgium, Luxembourg, Netherlands

Big Seven:  note - membership is the same as the Group of 7

established - NA 1975

aim - to discuss and coordinate major economic policies

members - (7) Big Six (Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, UK) plus
the US

Big Six:  note - not to be confused with the Group of 6

established - NA 1967

aim - to foster economic cooperation

members - (6) Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, UK

Black Sea Economic Cooperation Zone (BSEC):  established - 25 June 1992

aim - to enhance regional stability through economic cooperation

members - (11) Albania, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Bulgaria, Georgia, Greece,
Moldova, Romania, Russia, Turkey, Ukraine

observers - (7) Austria, Egypt, Israel, Italy, Poland, Slovakia,
Tunisia

Caribbean Community and Common Market (Caricom):  established - 4 July
1973; effective - 1 August 1973

aim - to promote economic integration and development, especially among
the less developed countries

members - (14) Antigua and Barbuda, The Bahamas, Barbados, Belize,
Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, Saint Kitts and Nevis,
Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Suriname, Trinidad and
Tobago

associate members - (3) Anguilla, British Virgin Islands, Turks and
Caicos Islands

observers - (10) Aruba, Bermuda, Cayman Islands, Colombia, Dominican
Republic, Haiti, Mexico, Netherlands Antilles, Puerto Rico, Venezuela;
note - when Haiti has deposited an appropriate instrument of accession
with the Secretary General, it will become a full member of the
Community

Caribbean Development Bank (CDB):  established - 18 October 1969;
effective - 26 January 1970

aim - to promote economic development and cooperation

regional members - (20) Anguilla, Antigua and Barbuda, The Bahamas,
Barbados, Belize, British Virgin Islands, Cayman Islands, Colombia,
Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Mexico, Montserrat, Saint Kitts and
Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Trinidad and
Tobago, Turks and Caicos Islands, Venezuela

nonregional members - (5) Canada, China, Germany, Italy, UK

Central African Customs and Economic Union (UDEAC):  see Monetary and
Economic Community of Central Africa (CEMAC)

Central African States Development Bank (BDEAC):  note - acronym from
Banque de Developpement des Etats de l'Afrique Centrale

established - 3 December 1975

aim - to provide loans for economic development

members - (9) Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Republic of the
Congo, Equatorial Guinea, France, Gabon, Germany, Kuwait

Central American Bank for Economic Integration (BCIE):  note - acronym
from Banco Centroamericano de Integracion Economico

established - 13 December 1960 signature of Articles of Agreement; 31
May 1961 began operations

aim - to promote economic integration and development

members - (5) Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua

nonregional members - (4) Argentina, Colombia, Mexico, Taiwan

Central American Common Market (CACM):  established - 13 December 1960,
collapsed in 1969, reinstated in 1991

aim - to promote establishment of a Central American Common Market

members - (5) Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua;
note - Panama, although not a member, pursues full regional cooperation

Central European Initiative (CEI):  note - evolved from the
Quadrilateral Initiative and the Hexagonal Initiative

established - 11 November 1989 as the Quadrilateral Initiative, 27 July
1991 became the Hexagonal Initiative, NA July 1992 present name adopted

aim - to form an economic and political cooperation group for the
region between the Adriatic and the Baltic Seas

members - (17) Albania, Austria, Belarus, Bosnia and Herzegovina,
Bulgaria, Croatia, Czech Republic, Hungary, Italy, The Former Yugoslav
Republic of Macedonia, Moldova, Poland, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia,
Ukraine, Yugoslavia

centrally planned economies :  a term applied mainly to the
traditionally communist states that looked to the former USSR for
leadership; most are now evolving toward more democratic and market-
oriented systems; also known formerly as the Second World or as the
communist countries; through the 1980s, this group included Albania,
Bulgaria, Cambodia, China, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, GDR, Hungary, North
Korea, Laos, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, USSR, Vietnam, Yugoslavia

Colombo Plan (CP):  established - NA May 1950 proposal was adopted; 1
July 1951 commenced full operations

aim - to promote economic and social development in Asia and the
Pacific

members - (24) Afghanistan, Australia, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Burma,
Cambodia, Fiji, India, Indonesia, Iran, Japan, South Korea, Laos,
Malaysia, Maldives, Nepal, NZ, Pakistan, Papua New Guinea, Philippines,
Singapore, Sri Lanka, Thailand, US

Commonwealth (C):  note - also known as Commonwealth of Nations

established - 31 December 1931

aim - to foster multinational cooperation and assistance, as a
voluntary association that evolved from the British Empire

members - (54) Antigua and Barbuda, Australia, The Bahamas, Bangladesh,
Barbados, Belize, Botswana, Brunei, Cameroon, Canada, Cyprus, Dominica,
Fiji, The Gambia, Ghana, Grenada, Guyana, India, Jamaica, Kenya,
Kiribati, Lesotho, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Malta, Mauritius,
Mozambique, Namibia, Nauru, NZ, Nigeria, Pakistan (suspended), Papua
New Guinea, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the
Grenadines, Samoa, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Solomon
Islands, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Swaziland, Tanzania, Tonga, Trinidad
and Tobago, Tuvalu, Uganda, UK, Vanuatu, Zambia, Zimbabwe

Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS):  established - 8 December
1991; effective - 21 December 1991

aim - to coordinate intercommonwealth relations and to provide a
mechanism for the orderly dissolution of the USSR

members - (12) Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Georgia, Kazakhstan,
Kyrgyzstan, Moldova, Russia, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Ukraine,
Uzbekistan

communist countries:  traditionally the Marxist-Leninist states with
authoritarian governments and command economies based on the Soviet
model; most of the original and the successor states are no longer
communist; see centrally planned economies

Coordinating Committee on Export Controls (COCOM):  established in 1949
to control the export of strategic products and technical data from
member countries to proscribed destinations; members were Australia,
Belgium, Canada, Denmark, France, Germany, Greece, Italy, Japan,
Luxembourg, Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Turkey, UK, US;
abolished 31 March 1994; COCOM members established a new organization,
the Wassenaar Arrangement, with expanded membership on 12 July 1996
which focuses on nonproliferation export controls as opposed to East-
West control of advanced technology

Council for Mutual Economic Assistance (CEMA):  note - also known as
CMEA or Comecon

established 25 January 1949 to promote the development of socialist
economies and abolished 1 January 1991; members included Afghanistan
(observer), Albania (had not participated since 1961 break with USSR),
Angola (observer), Bulgaria, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Ethiopia (observer),
GDR, Hungary, Laos (observer), Mongolia, Mozambique (observer),
Nicaragua (observer), Poland, Romania, USSR, Vietnam, Yemen (observer),
Yugoslavia (associate)

Council of Arab Economic Unity (CAEU):  established - 3 June 1957;
effective - 30 May 1964

aim - to promote economic integration among Arab nations

members - (11 plus the Palestine Liberation Organization) Egypt, Iraq,
Jordan, Kuwait, Libya, Mauritania, Somalia, Sudan, Syria, UAE, Yemen,
Palestine Liberation Organization

Council of Europe (CE):  established - 5 May 1949; effective - 3 August
1949

aim - to promote increased unity and quality of life in Europe

members - (43) Albania, Andorra, Armenia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Belgium,
Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland,
France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy,
Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, The Former Yugoslav
Republic of Macedonia, Malta, Moldova, Netherlands, Norway, Poland,
Portugal, Romania, Russia, San Marino, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain,
Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, Ukraine, UK

guests - (2) Bosnia and Herzegovina, Yugoslavia

observers - (5) Canada, Israel, Japan, Mexico, US

Council of the Baltic Sea States (CBSS):  established - 6 March 1992

aim - to promote cooperation among the Baltic Sea states in the areas
of aid to new democratic institutions, economic development,
humanitarian aid, energy and the environment, cultural programs and
education, and transportation and communication

members - (12) Denmark, Estonia, EU, Finland, Germany, Iceland, Latvia,
Lithuania, Norway, Poland, Russia, Sweden

Council of the Entente (Entente):  established - 29 May 1959

aim - to promote economic, social, and political coordination

members - (5) Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'Ivoire, Niger, Togo

countries in transition:  a term used by the International Monetary
FUND (IMF) for the middle group in its hierarchy of advanced economies,
countries in transition, and developing countries; recently published
IMF statistics include the following 28 countries in transition:
Albania, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Bosnia and Herzegovina,
Bulgaria, Croatia, Czech Republic, Estonia, Georgia, Hungary,
Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Latvia, Lithuania, The Former Yugoslav Republic
of Macedonia, Moldova, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, Russia, Slovakia,
Slovenia, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, Uzbekistan, Yugoslavia;
note - this group is identical to the group traditionally referred to
as the "former USSR/Eastern Europe" except for the addition of Mongolia

Customs Cooperation Council (CCC):  note - also known as World Customs
Organization (WCO)

established - 15 December 1950

aim - to promote international cooperation in customs matters

members - (153) Albania, Algeria, Andorra, Angola, Argentina, Armenia,
Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, The Bahamas, Bangladesh, Barbados,
Belarus, Belgium, Benin, Bermuda, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei,
Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burma, Burundi, Cameroon, Canada, Cape Verde,
Central African Republic, Chile, China, Colombia, Comoros, Democratic
Republic of the Congo, Republic of the Congo, Cote d'Ivoire, Croatia,
Cuba, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Ecuador, Egypt, Eritrea,
Estonia, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France, Gabon, The Gambia, Georgia,
Germany, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, Haiti, Hong Kong,
Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Italy,
Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, South Korea, Kuwait,
Kyrgyzstan, Latvia, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libya, Lithuania,
Luxembourg, Macau, The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia,
Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Mauritania,
Mauritius, Mexico, Moldova, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Namibia,
Nepal, Netherlands, NZ, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman,
Pakistan, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar,
Romania, Russia, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Seychelles, Sierra
Leone, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka,
Sudan, Swaziland, Sweden, Switzerland, Syria, Tajikistan, Tanzania,
Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Turkmenistan,
Uganda, Ukraine, UAE, UK, US, Uruguay, Uzbekistan, Venezuela, Vietnam,
Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe

developed countries (DCs):  the top group in the hierarchy of developed
countries (DCs), former USSR/Eastern Europe (former USSR/EE), and less
developed countries (LDCs); includes the market-oriented economies of
the mainly democratic nations in the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development (OECD), Bermuda, Israel, South Africa, and
the European ministates; also known as the First World, high-income
countries, the North, industrial countries; generally have a per capita
GDP in excess of $10,000 although four OECD countries and South Africa
have figures well under $10,000 and two of the excluded OPEC countries
have figures of more than $10,000; the 35 DCs are: Andorra, Australia,
Austria, Belgium, Bermuda, Canada, Denmark, Faroe Islands, Finland,
France, Germany, Greece, Holy See, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy,
Japan, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Malta, Mexico, Monaco, Netherlands,
NZ, Norway, Portugal, San Marino, South Africa, Spain, Sweden,
Switzerland, Turkey, UK, US; note - similar to the new International
Monetary Fund (IMF) term "advanced economies" which adds Hong Kong,
South Korea, Singapore, and Taiwan but drops Malta, Mexico, South
Africa, and Turkey

developing countries:  a term used by the International Monetary Fund
(IMF) for the bottom group in its hierarchy of advanced economies,
countries in transition, and developing countries; recently published
IMF statistics include the following 126 developing countries:
Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Aruba,
The Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belize, Benin, Bhutan,
Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Burkina Faso, Burma, Burundi, Cambodia,
Cameroon, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, China,
Colombia, Comoros, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Republic of the
Congo, Costa Rica, Cote d'Ivoire, Cyprus, Djibouti, Dominica, Dominican
Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Equatorial Guinea, Ethiopia,
Fiji, Gabon, The Gambia, Ghana, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-
Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Jamaica,
Jordan, Kenya, Kiribati, Kuwait, Laos, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia,
Libya, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Marshall
Islands, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Federated States of Micronesia,
Morocco, Mozambique, Namibia, Nepal, Netherlands Antilles, Nicaragua,
Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay,
Peru, Philippines, Qatar, Rwanda, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia,
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Samoa, Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi
Arabia, Senegal, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Solomon Islands, Somalia,
South Africa, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Syria, Tanzania,
Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, UAE, Uganda,
Uruguay, Vanuatu, Venezuela, Vietnam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe; note -
this category would presumably also cover the following 46 other
countries that are traditionally included in the more comprehensive
group of "less developed countries": American Samoa, Anguilla, British
Virgin Islands, Brunei, Cayman Islands, Christmas Island, Cocos
Islands, Cook Islands, Cuba, Eritrea, Falkland Islands, French Guiana,
French Polynesia, Gaza Strip, Gibraltar, Greenland, Grenada,
Guadeloupe, Guam, Guernsey, Jersey, North Korea, Macau, Isle of Man,
Martinique, Mayotte, Montserrat, Nauru, New Caledonia, Niue, Norfolk
Island, Northern Mariana Islands, Palau, Pitcairn Islands, Puerto Rico,
Reunion, Saint Helena, Saint Pierre and Miquelon, Tokelau, Tonga, Turks
and Caicos Islands, Tuvalu, Virgin Islands, Wallis and Futuna, West
Bank, Western Sahara

East African Development Bank (EADB):  established - 6 June 1967;
effective - 1 December 1967

aim - to promote economic development

members - (3) Kenya, Tanzania, Uganda

Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC):  established - 26 June 1945;
effective - 24 October 1945

aim - to coordinate the economic and social work of the UN; includes
five regional commissions (Economic Commission for Africa, Economic
Commission for Europe, Economic Commission for Latin America and the
Caribbean, Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific,
Economic and Social Commission for Western Asia) and 9 functional
commissions (Commission for Social Development, Commission on Human
Rights, Commission on Narcotic Drugs, Commission on the Status of
Women, Commission on Population and Development, Statistical
Commission, Commission on Science and Technology for Development,
Commission on Sustainable Development, and Commission on Crime
Prevention and Criminal Justice)

members - (54) selected on a rotating basis from all regions

Economic Community of the Great Lakes Countries (CEPGL):  note -
acronym from Communaute Economique des Pays des Grands Lacs

established - 20 September 1976

aim - to promote regional economic cooperation and integration

members - (3) Burundi, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Rwanda

Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS):  established - 28
May 1975

aim - to promote regional economic cooperation

members - (16) Benin, Burkina Faso, Cape Verde, Cote d'Ivoire, The
Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mali, Mauritania, Niger,
Nigeria, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Togo

Economic Cooperation Organization (ECO):  established - 27-29 January
1985

aim - to promote regional cooperation in trade, transportation,
communications, tourism, cultural affairs, and economic development

members - (10) Afghanistan, Azerbaijan, Iran, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan,
Pakistan, Tajikistan, Turkey, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan

associate member - (1) "Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus"

Euro-Atlantic Partnership Council (EAPC):  note - began as the North
Atlantic Cooperation Council (NACC); an extension of NATO

established - 8 November 1991; effective - 20 December 1991

aim - to discuss cooperation on mutual political and security issues

members - (46) Albania, Armenia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Belgium,
Bulgaria, Canada, Croatia, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland,
France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy,
Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, The Former
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Moldova, Netherlands, Norway, Poland,
Portugal, Romania, Russia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden,
Switzerland, Tajikistan, Turkey, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, UK, US,
Uzbekistan

European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD):  established -
8-9 January 1990 (proposals made); 15 April 1991 (bank inaugurated)

aim - to facilitate the transition of seven centrally planned economies
in Europe (Bulgaria, former Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland, Romania,
former USSR, and former Yugoslavia) to market economies by committing
60% of its loans to privatization

members - (61) Albania, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan,
Belarus, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Canada, Croatia,
Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Egypt, EU, European Investment Bank
(EIB), Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Hungary,
Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Kazakhstan, South Korea,
Kyrgyzstan, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, The Former
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Malta, Mexico, Moldova, Mongolia,
Morocco, Netherlands, NZ, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russia,
Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Tajikistan, Turkey,
Turkmenistan, Ukraine, UK, US, Uzbekistan; note - includes all 25
members of the OECD; also includes the EU as a single entity

European Community (or European Communities, EC):  was established 8
April 1965 to integrate the European Atomic Energy Community (Euratom),
the European Coal and Steel Community (ESC), the European Economic
Community (EEC or Common Market), and to establish a completely
integrated common market and an eventual federation of Europe; merged
into the European Union (EU) on 7 February 1992; member states at the
time of merger were Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland,
Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Portugal, Spain, UK

European Free Trade Association (EFTA):  established - 4 January 1960;
effective - 3 May 1960

aim - to promote expansion of free trade

members - (4) Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway, Switzerland

European Investment Bank (EIB):  established - 25 March 1957; effective
- 1 January 1958

aim - to promote economic development of the EU and its predecessors,
the EEC and the EC

members - (15) Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany,
Greece, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Portugal, Spain,
Sweden, UK

European Monetary Union (EMU):  note - an integral part of the European
Union; also known as the European Economic and Monetary Union

proposed - 1-2 December 1969 at summit conference of heads of
government; signed - 7 February 1992 - Maastricht Treaty

aim - to promote a single market by creating a single currency, the
euro; time table - 2 May 1998: European exchange rates fixed for 1
January 1999; 1 January 1999: all banks and stock exchanges begin using
euros; 1 January 2002: the euro goes into circulation; 1 July 2002
local currencies no longer accepted

members - (12) Austria, Belgium, Finland, France, Germany, Greece,
Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Portugal, Spain; note -
Denmark, Sweden, and UK decided not to join

European Organization for Nuclear Research (CERN):  note - acronym
retained from the predecessor organization Conseil Europeenne pour la
Recherche Nucleaire

established - 1 July 1953; effective - 29 September 1954

aim - to foster nuclear research for peaceful purposes only

members - (20) Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Czech Republic, Denmark,
Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Italy, Netherlands, Norway,
Poland, Portugal, Slovakia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, UK

observers - (7) European Commission, Israel, Japan, Russia, Turkey,
United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization
(UNESCO), US

European Space Agency (ESA):  established - 31 May 1975

aim - to promote peaceful cooperation in space research and technology

members - (15) Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany,
Ireland, Italy, Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden,
Switzerland, UK

cooperating state - (1) Canada

European Union (EU):  note - evolved from the European Community (EC)

established - 7 February 1992; effective - 1 November 1993

aim - to coordinate policy among the 15 members in three fields:
economics, building on the European Economic Community's (EEC) efforts
to establish a common market and eventually a common currency to be
called the 'euro', which superseded the EU's accounting unit, the ECU;
defense, within the concept of a Common Foreign and Security Policy
(CFSP); and justice and home affairs, including immigration, drugs,
terrorism, and improved living and working conditions

members - (15) Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany,
Greece, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Portugal, Spain,
Sweden, UK

membership applicants - (13) Bulgaria, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Estonia,
Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Malta, Poland, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia,
Turkey

First World:  another term for countries with advanced, industrialized
economies; this term is fading from use; see developed countries (DCs)

Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO):  established - 16 October 1945

aim - to raise living standards and increase availability of
agricultural products, as a UN specialized agency

members - (180) Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Antigua and
Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, The
Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belgium, Belize, Benin, Bhutan,
Bolivia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burkina
Faso, Burma, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada, Cape Verde, Central
African Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Comoros, Democratic
Republic of the Congo, Republic of the Congo, Cook Islands, Costa Rica,
Cote d'Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark,
Djibouti, Dominica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador,
Equatorial Guinea, Eritrea, Estonia, Ethiopia, EU, Fiji, Finland,
France, Gabon, The Gambia, Georgia, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Grenada,
Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary,
Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica,
Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kiribati, North Korea, South Korea,
Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Laos, Latvia, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libya,
Lithuania, Luxembourg, The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia,
Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Marshall Islands,
Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Moldova, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique,
Namibia, Nepal, Netherlands, NZ, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Niue,
Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Palau, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay,
Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Saint
Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Samoa,
San Marino, Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Seychelles,
Sierra Leone, Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands, Somalia, South
Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden,
Switzerland, Syria, Tajikistan, Tanzania, Thailand, Togo, Tonga,
Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Turkmenistan, Uganda, UAE, UK,
US, Uruguay, Vanuatu, Venezuela, Vietnam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe

applicant member - (1) Yugoslavia

former Soviet Union (FSU):  former term often used to identify as a
group the successor nations to the Soviet Union or USSR; this group of
15 countries consists of Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Estonia,
Georgia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Latvia, Lithuania, Moldova, Russia,
Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, Uzbekistan

former USSR/Eastern Europe (former USSR/EE):  the middle group in the
hierarchy of developed countries (DCs), former USSR/Eastern Europe
(former USSR/EE), and less developed countries (LDCs); these countries
are in political and economic transition and may well be grouped
differently in the near future; this group of 27 countries consists of
Albania, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Bosnia and Herzegovina,
Bulgaria, Croatia, Czech Republic, Estonia, Georgia, Hungary,
Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Latvia, Lithuania, The Former Yugoslav Republic
of Macedonia, Moldova, Poland, Romania, Russia, Slovakia, Slovenia,
Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, Uzbekistan, Yugoslavia; this group
is identical to the IMF group "countries in transition" except for the
IMF's inclusion of Mongolia

Four Dragons:  the four small Asian less developed countries (LDCs)
that have experienced unusually rapid economic growth; also known as
the Four Tigers; this group consists of Hong Kong, South Korea,
Singapore, Taiwan; these countries are included in the IMF's "advanced
economies" group

Franc Zone (FZ):  note - also known as Conference des Ministres des
Finances des Pays de la Zone Franc

established - NA 1964

aim - to form a monetary union among countries whose currencies are
linked to the French franc

members - (16) Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Central African Republic,
Chad, Comoros, Republic of the Congo, Cote d'Ivoire, Equatorial Guinea,
France, Gabon, Guinea-Bissau, Mali, Niger, Senegal, Togo; note - France
includes metropolitan France, the four overseas departments of France
(French Guiana, Guadeloupe, Martinique, Reunion), the two territorial
collectivities of France (Mayotte, Saint Pierre and Miquelon), and the
three overseas territories of France (French Polynesia, New Caledonia,
Wallis and Futuna)

Front Line States (FLS):  established to achieve black majority rule in
South Africa; has since gone out of existence; members included Angola,
Botswana, Mozambique, Namibia, Tanzania, Zambia, Zimbabwe

General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT):  see the World Trade
Organization (WTrO)

Group of 2 (G-2):  informal term that came into use about 1986; to
facilitate bilateral economic cooperation between the two most powerful
economic giants

Japan, US

Group of 3 (G-3):  established - NA September 1990

aim - mechanism for policy coordination

members - (3) Colombia, Mexico, Venezuela

Group of 5 (G-5):  established - 22 September 1985

aim - to coordinate the economic policies of five major noncommunist
economic powers

members - (5) France, Germany, Japan, UK, US

Group of 6 (G-6):  note - also known as Groupe des Six Sur le
Desarmement; not to be confused with the Big Six

established - 22 May 1984

aim - to achieve nuclear disarmament

members - (6) Argentina, Greece, India, Mexico, Sweden, Tanzania

Group of 7 (G-7):  note - membership is the same as the Big Seven

established - 22 September 1985

aim - to facilitate economic cooperation among the seven major
noncommunist economic powers

members - (7) Group of 5 (France, Germany, Japan, UK, US) plus Canada
and Italy

Group of 8 (G-8):  established - NA October 1975

aim - to facilitate economic cooperation among the developed countries
(DCs) that participated in the Conference on International Economic
Cooperation (CIEC), held in several sessions between NA December 1975
and 3 June 1977

members - (9) Canada, EU (as one member), France, Germany, Italy,
Japan, Russia, UK, US

Group of 9 (G-9):  established - NA

aim - to discuss matters of mutual interest on an informal basis

members - (9) Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Denmark, Finland, Hungary,
Romania, Sweden, Yugoslavia

Group of 10 (G-10):  note - also known as the Paris Club; includes the
wealthiest members of the IMF who provide most of the money to be
loaned and act as the informal steering committee; name persists in
spite of the addition of Switzerland on NA April 1984

established - NA October 1962

aim - to coordinate credit policy

members - (11) Belgium, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan,
Netherlands, Sweden, Switzerland, UK, US

nonstate participants - (4) BIS, EU, IMF, OECD

Group of 11 (G-11):  note - also known as the Cartagena Group

established - 21-22 June 1984, in Cartagena, Colombia

aim - to provide a forum for largest debtor nations in Latin America

members - (11) Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Dominican
Republic, Ecuador, Mexico, Peru, Uruguay, Venezuela

Group of 15 (G-15):  note - byproduct of the Nonaligned Movement

established - NA September 1989

aim - to promote economic cooperation among developing nations; to act
as the main political organ for the Nonaligned Movement

members - (15) Algeria, Argentina, Brazil, Egypt, India, Indonesia,
Jamaica, Malaysia, Mexico, Nigeria, Peru, Senegal, Venezuela, former
Yugoslavia, Zimbabwe

Group of 24 (G-24):  established - 1 August 1989

aim - to promote the interests of developing countries in Africa, Asia,
and Latin America within the IMF

members - (24) Algeria, Argentina, Brazil, Colombia, Democratic
Republic of the Congo, Cote d'Ivoire, Egypt, Ethiopia, Gabon, Ghana,
Guatemala, India, Iran, Lebanon, Mexico, Nigeria, Pakistan, Peru,
Philippines, Sri Lanka, Syria, Trinidad and Tobago, Venezuela,
Yugoslavia

Group of 77 (G-77):  established - 15 June 1964 was set up; NA October
1967 first ministerial meeting

aim - to promote economic cooperation among developing countries; name
persists in spite of increased membership

members - (131 plus the Palestine Liberation Organization) Afghanistan,
Algeria, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, The Bahamas, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Barbados, Belize, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Bosnia and
Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei, Burkina Faso, Burma, Burundi,
Cambodia, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile,
China, Colombia, Comoros, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Republic of
the Congo, Costa Rica, Cote d'Ivoire, Cuba, Cyprus, Djibouti, Dominica,
Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Equatorial Guinea,
Ethiopia, Fiji, Gabon, The Gambia, Ghana, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea,
Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq,
Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, North Korea, South Korea, Kuwait, Laos,
Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libya, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia,
Maldives, Mali, Malta, Marshall Islands, Mauritania, Mauritius,
Federated States of Micronesia, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Namibia,
Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New
Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Saint
Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Samoa,
Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Seychelles, Sierra Leone,
Singapore, Solomon Islands, Somalia, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Sudan,
Suriname, Swaziland, Syria, Tanzania, Thailand, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad
and Tobago, Tunisia, Uganda, UAE, Uruguay, Vanuatu, Venezuela, Vietnam,
Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zambia, Zimbabwe, Palestine Liberation Organization

Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC):  note - also known as the Cooperation
Council for the Arab States of the Gulf

established - 25 May 1981

aim - to promote regional cooperation in economic, social, political,
and military affairs

members - (6) Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, UAE

high-income countries:  another term for the industrialized countries
with high per capita GDPs; see developed countries (DCs)

Indian Ocean Commission (InOC):  established - 21 December 1982

aim - to organize and promote regional cooperation in all sectors,
especially economic

members - (5) Comoros, France (for Reunion), Madagascar, Mauritius,
Seychelles

industrial countries:  another term for the developed countries; see
developed countries (DCs)

Inter-American Development Bank (IADB):  note - also known as Banco
Interamericano de Desarrollo (BID)

established - 8 April 1959; effective - 30 December 1959

aim - to promote economic and social development in Latin America

members - (46) Argentina, Austria, The Bahamas, Barbados, Belgium,
Belize, Bolivia, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Croatia,
Denmark, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Finland, France,
Germany, Guatemala, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Israel, Italy, Jamaica,
Japan, Mexico, Netherlands, Nicaragua, Norway, Panama, Paraguay, Peru,
Portugal, Slovenia, Spain, Suriname, Sweden, Switzerland, Trinidad and
Tobago, UK, US, Uruguay, Venezuela

Inter-Governmental Authority on Development (IGAD):  note - formerly
known as Inter-Governmental Authority on Drought and Development
(IGADD)

established - 15-16 January 1986 as the Inter-Governmental Authority on
Drought and Development; revitalized - 21 March 1996 as the Inter-
Governmental Authority on Development

aim - to promote a social, economic, and scientific community among its
members

members - (6) Djibouti, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Kenya, Sudan, Uganda

International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA):  established - 26 October
1956; effective - 29 July 1957

aim - to promote peaceful uses of atomic energy

members - (130) Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentina,
Armenia, Australia, Austria, Bangladesh, Belarus, Belgium, Benin,
Bolivia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burma,
Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada, Chile, China, Colombia, Democratic Republic
of the Congo, Costa Rica, Cote d'Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech
Republic, Denmark, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador,
Estonia, Ethiopia, Finland, France, Gabon, Georgia, Germany, Ghana,
Greece, Guatemala, Haiti, Holy See, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia,
Iran, Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan,
Kenya, South Korea, Kuwait, Latvia, Lebanon, Liberia, Libya,
Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, The Former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia, Madagascar, Malaysia, Mali, Malta, Marshall Islands,
Mauritius, Mexico, Moldova, Monaco, Mongolia, Morocco, Namibia,
Netherlands, NZ, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Pakistan, Panama,
Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Russia,
Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia,
South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Sweden, Switzerland, Syria,
Tanzania, Thailand, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukraine, UAE, UK, US,
Uruguay, Uzbekistan, Venezuela, Vietnam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zambia,
Zimbabwe

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD):  note -
also known as the World Bank

established - 22 July 1944; effective - 27 December 1945

aim - to provide economic development loans; a UN specialized agency

members - (182) Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Antigua and
Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, The
Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belgium, Belize,
Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil,
Brunei, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burma, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon,
Canada, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, China,
Colombia, Comoros, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Republic of the
Congo, Costa Rica, Cote d'Ivoire, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic,
Denmark, Djibouti, Dominica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El
Salvador, Equatorial Guinea, Eritrea, Estonia, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland,
France, Gabon, The Gambia, Georgia, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Grenada,
Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary,
Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica,
Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kiribati, South Korea, Kuwait,
Kyrgyzstan, Laos, Latvia, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libya, Lithuania,
Luxembourg, The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Madagascar,
Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Marshall Islands, Mauritania,
Mauritius, Mexico, Federated States of Micronesia, Moldova, Mongolia,
Morocco, Mozambique, Namibia, Nepal, Netherlands, NZ, Nicaragua, Niger,
Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Palau, Panama, Papua New Guinea,
Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Russia,
Rwanda, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the
Grenadines, Samoa, San Marino, Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia,
Senegal, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia,
Solomon Islands, Somalia, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan,
Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Switzerland, Syria, Tajikistan, Tanzania,
Thailand, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey,
Turkmenistan, Uganda, Ukraine, UAE, UK, US, Uruguay, Uzbekistan,
Vanuatu, Venezuela, Vietnam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe

International Chamber of Commerce (ICC):  established - NA 1919

aim - to promote free trade and private enterprise and to represent
business interests at national and international levels

members - (78 national councils) Algeria, Argentina, Australia,
Austria, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Belgium, Brazil, Burkina Faso, Cameroon,
Canada, Caribbean, Chile, China, Colombia, Cote d'Ivoire, Cuba, Cyprus,
Czech Republic, Denmark, Ecuador, Egypt, Finland, France, Germany,
Ghana, Greece, Greenland, Hong Kong, Hungary, Iceland, India,
Indonesia, Iran, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Jordan, South Korea,
Kuwait, Lebanon, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Mexico, Morocco,
Netherlands, NZ, Nigeria, Norway, Pakistan, Peru, Philippines, Poland,
Portugal, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Singapore, Slovakia, South
Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sweden, Switzerland, Syria, Taiwan, Tanzania,
Thailand, Togo, Tunisia, Turkey, UK, US, Uruguay, Venezuela, Yugoslavia

International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO):  established - 7
December 1944; effective - 4 April 1947

aim - to promote international cooperation in civil aviation; a UN
specialized agency

members - (187) Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Andorra, Angola, Antigua
and Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, The
Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belgium, Belize,
Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil,
Brunei, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burma, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon,
Canada, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, China,
Colombia, Comoros, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Republic of the
Congo, Cook Islands, Costa Rica, Cote d'Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus,
Czech Republic, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt,
El Salvador, Equatorial Guinea, Eritrea, Estonia, Ethiopia, Fiji,
Finland, France, Gabon, The Gambia, Georgia, Germany, Ghana, Greece,
Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras,
Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Italy,
Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kiribati, North Korea, South
Korea, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Laos, Latvia, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia,
Libya, Lithuania, Luxembourg, The Former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta,
Marshall Islands, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Federated States of
Micronesia, Moldova, Monaco, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Namibia,
Nauru, Nepal, Netherlands, NZ, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman,
Palau, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines,
Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Russia, Rwanda, Saint Lucia, Saint
Vincent and the Grenadines, Samoa, San Marino, Sao Tome and Principe,
Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Slovakia,
Slovenia, Solomon Islands, Somalia, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka,
Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Switzerland, Syria, Tajikistan,
Tanzania, Thailand, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey,
Turkmenistan, Uganda, Ukraine, UAE, UK, US, Uruguay, Uzbekistan,
Vanuatu, Venezuela, Vietnam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zambia, Zimbabwe

International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC):  established - 17
February 1863

aim - to provide humanitarian aid in wartime

members - (25 individuals) all Swiss nationals

International Confederation of Free Trade Unions (ICFTU):  established
- NA December 1949

aim - to promote the trade union movement

members - (221 affiliated organizations in the following 148 countries)
Algeria, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Australia, Austria,
Azerbaijan, The Bahamas, Bangladesh, Barbados, Basque Country, Belgium,
Belize, Benin, Bermuda, Botswana, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso,
Cameroon, Canada, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile,
China, Colombia, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Republic of the
Congo, Cook Islands, Costa Rica, Cote d'Ivoire, Croatia, Curacao,
Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominica, Dominican
Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Eritrea, Estonia, Falkland Islands,
Fiji, Finland, France, French Polynesia, Gabon, The Gambia, Georgia,
Germany, Ghana, Greece, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau,
Guyana, Holy See, Honduras, Hong Kong, Hungary, Iceland, India,
Indonesia, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya,
Kiribati, South Korea, Latvia, Lebanon, Liberia, Lithuania, Luxembourg,
Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mauritius,
Mexico, Moldova, Mongolia, Montserrat, Morocco, Mozambique, Nepal,
Netherlands, New Caledonia, NZ, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway,
Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines,
Poland, Portugal, Puerto Rico, Romania, Russia, Rwanda, Saint Helena,
Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines,
Samoa, San Marino, Senegal, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Singapore,
Slovakia, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden,
Switzerland, Taiwan, Tanzania, Thailand, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and
Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, UK, US, Vanuatu, Venezuela,
Yugoslavia, Zambia, Zimbabwe

International Court of Justice (ICJ):  note - also known as the World
Court

established - 3 February 1946 superseded Permanent Court of
International Justice

aim - primary judicial organ of the UN

members - (15 judges) elected by the UN General Assembly and Security
Council to represent all principal legal systems

International Criminal Police Organization (Interpol):  established -
NA September 1923 set up as the International Criminal Police
Commission; 13 June 1956 constitution modified and present name adopted

aim - to promote international cooperation among police authorities in
fighting crime

members - (178) Albania, Algeria, Andorra, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda,
Argentina, Armenia, Aruba, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, The Bahamas,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belgium, Belize, Benin,
Bolivia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei, Bulgaria,
Burkina Faso, Burma, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada, Cape Verde,
Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Comoros,
Democratic Republic of the Congo, Republic of the Congo, Costa Rica,
Cote d'Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark,
Djibouti, Dominica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador,
Equatorial Guinea, Eritrea, Estonia, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France,
Gabon, The Gambia, Georgia, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Grenada, Guatemala,
Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland,
India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan,
Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, South Korea, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Laos,
Latvia, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libya, Liechtenstein, Lithuania,
Luxembourg, The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Madagascar,
Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Marshall Islands, Mauritania,
Mauritius, Mexico, Moldova, Monaco, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique,
Namibia, Nauru, Nepal, Netherlands, Netherlands Antilles, NZ,
Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New
Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania,
Russia, Rwanda, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and
the Grenadines, Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Senegal,
Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, Somalia, South
Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden,
Switzerland, Syria, Tanzania, Thailand, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and
Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukraine, UAE, UK, US, Uruguay,
Uzbekistan, Venezuela, Vietnam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe

subbureaus - (14) American Samoa, Anguilla, Bermuda, British Virgin
Islands, Cayman Islands, Gibraltar, Guam, Hong Kong, Macau, Montserrat,
Northern Mariana Islands, Puerto Rico, Turks and Caicos Islands, Virgin
Islands

International Development Association (IDA):  established - 26 January
1960; effective - 24 September 1960

aim - UN specialized agency and IBRD affiliate that provides economic
loans for low-income countries

members - (161)

Part I - (27 developed countries) Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada,
Denmark, EU, Finland, France, Germany, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Japan,
Kuwait, Luxembourg, Netherlands, NZ, Norway, Portugal, Russia, South
Africa, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, UAE, UK, US

Part II - (134 less developed countries) Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria,
Angola, Argentina, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Bangladesh, Belize, Benin,
Bhutan, Bolivia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil, Burkina
Faso, Burma, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Central African
Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Comoros, Democratic Republic of
the Congo, Republic of the Congo, Costa Rica, Cote d'Ivoire, Croatia,
Cyprus, Czech Republic, Djibouti, Dominica, Dominican Republic,
Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Equatorial Guinea, Eritrea, Ethiopia,
Fiji, Gabon, The Gambia, Georgia, Ghana, Greece, Grenada, Guatemala,
Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, India,
Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Israel, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kiribati,
South Korea, Kyrgyzstan, Laos, Latvia, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia,
Libya, The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Madagascar, Malawi,
Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Marshall Islands, Mauritania, Mauritius,
Mexico, Federated States of Micronesia, Moldova, Mongolia, Morocco,
Mozambique, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Palau,
Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Rwanda,
Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines,
Samoa, Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone,
Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands, Somalia, Sri Lanka, Sudan,
Swaziland, Syria, Tajikistan, Tanzania, Thailand, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad
and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Uzbekistan, Vanuatu, Vietnam,
Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe

International Energy Agency (IEA):  established - 15 November 1974

aim - to promote cooperation on energy matters, especially emergency
oil sharing and relations between oil consumers and oil producers;
established by the OECD

members - (25) Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Czech Republic,
Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Ireland, Italy,
Japan, Luxembourg, Netherlands, NZ, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden,
Switzerland, Turkey, UK, US

observers - (15) Commission of the European Communities, Iceland, South
Korea, Mexico, Poland

International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies
(IFRCS):  note - formerly known as League of Red Cross and Red Crescent
Societies (LORCS)

established - 5 May 1919

aim - to organize, coordinate, and direct international relief actions;
to promote humanitarian activities; to represent and encourage the
development of National Societies; to bring help to victims of armed
conflicts, refugees, and displaced people; to reduce the vulnerability
of people through development programs

members - (176) Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Andorra, Angola, Antigua
and Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, The
Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belgium, Belize,
Benin, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso,
Burma, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada, Cape Verde, Central African
Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Democratic Republic of the
Congo, Republic of the Congo, Costa Rica, Cote d'Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba,
Czech Republic, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominica, Dominican Republic,
Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Equatorial Guinea, Estonia, Ethiopia,
Fiji, Finland, France, The Gambia, Georgia, Germany, Ghana, Greece,
Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras,
Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Ireland, Italy,
Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kiribati, North Korea, South Korea,
Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Laos, Latvia, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libya,
Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, The Former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Mali, Malta, Mauritania,
Mauritius, Mexico, Monaco, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Namibia,
Nepal, Netherlands, NZ, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Pakistan,
Palau, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland,
Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Russia, Rwanda, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint
Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Samoa, San Marino, Sao Tome
and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Seychelles, Sierra Leone,
Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands, Somalia, South Africa,
Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Switzerland,
Syria, Taiwan, Tajikistan, Tanzania, Thailand, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad
and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Turkmenistan, Uganda, Ukraine, UAE, UK,
US, Uruguay, Uzbekistan, Vanuatu, Venezuela, Vietnam, Yemen,
Yugoslavia, Zambia, Zimbabwe

associate members - (4) Comoros, Cyprus, Gabon, Tuvalu

International Finance Corporation (IFC):  established - 25 May 1955;
effective - 24 July 1956

aim - to support private enterprise in international economic
development; a UN specialized agency and IBRD affiliate

members - (174) Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Antigua and
Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, The
Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belgium, Belize,
Benin, Bolivia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil, Bulgaria,
Burkina Faso, Burma, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada, Cape Verde,
Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Comoros,
Democratic Republic of the Congo, Republic of the Congo, Costa Rica,
Cote d'Ivoire, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Djibouti,
Dominica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Equatorial
Guinea, Eritrea, Estonia, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France, Gabon, The
Gambia, Georgia, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea,
Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India,
Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan,
Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kiribati, South Korea, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Laos,
Latvia, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libya, Lithuania, Luxembourg, The
Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia,
Maldives, Mali, Marshall Islands, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico,
Federated States of Micronesia, Moldova, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique,
Namibia, Nepal, Netherlands, NZ, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway,
Oman, Pakistan, Palau, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru,
Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russia, Rwanda, Saint Kitts and
Nevis, Saint Lucia, Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Seychelles, Sierra
Leone, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands, Somalia, South
Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Swaziland, Sweden, Switzerland, Syria,
Tajikistan, Tanzania, Thailand, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago,
Tunisia, Turkey, Turkmenistan, Uganda, Ukraine, UAE, UK, US, Uruguay,
Uzbekistan, Vanuatu, Venezuela, Vietnam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe

International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD):  established -
NA November 1974

aim - to promote agricultural development; a UN specialized agency

members - (161)

Category I - (22 industrialized aid contributors) Australia, Austria,
Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland,
Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, Netherlands, NZ, Norway, Portugal, Spain,
Sweden, Switzerland, UK, US

Category II - (12 petroleum-exporting aid contributors) Algeria, Gabon,
Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Kuwait, Libya, Nigeria, Qatar, Saudi Arabia,
UAE, Venezuela

Category III - (127 aid recipients) Afghanistan, Albania, Angola,
Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Bangladesh,
Barbados, Belize, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Bosnia and Herzegovina,
Botswana, Brazil, Burkina Faso, Burma, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon,
Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia,
Comoros, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Republic of the Congo, Cook
Islands, Costa Rica, Cote d'Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Djibouti,
Dominica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Equatorial
Guinea, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Fiji, The Gambia, Georgia, Ghana, Grenada,
Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, India,
Israel, Jamaica, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, North Korea, South Korea,
Kyrgyzstan, Laos, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, The Former Yugoslav
Republic of Macedonia, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali,
Malta, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Moldova, Mongolia, Morocco,
Mozambique, Namibia, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Oman, Pakistan, Panama,
Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Romania, Rwanda, Saint
Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Samoa,
Sao Tome and Principe, Senegal, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Solomon
Islands, Somalia, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland,
Syria, Tajikistan, Tanzania, Thailand, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and
Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Uruguay, Vietnam, Yemen, Yugoslavia,
Zambia, Zimbabwe

International Hydrographic Organization (IHO):  note - name changed
from International Hydrographic Bureau on 22 September 1970

established - NA June 1919; effective - NA June 1921

aim - to train hydrographic surveyors and nautical cartographers to
achieve standardization in nautical charts and electronic chart
displays; to provide advice on nautical cartography and hydrography; to
develop the sciences in the field of hydrography and techniques used
for descriptive oceanography

members - (68) Algeria, Argentina, Australia, Bahrain, Belgium, Brazil,
Canada, Chile, China, Colombia, Democratic Republic of the Congo,
Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Denmark, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt,
Estonia, Fiji, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Guatemala, Iceland,
India, Indonesia, Iran, Italy, Japan, North Korea, South Korea,
Malaysia, Monaco, Morocco, Mozambique, Netherlands, NZ, Nigeria,
Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Papua New Guinea, Peru, Philippines, Poland,
Portugal, Russia, Singapore, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Suriname,
Sweden, Syria, Thailand, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey,
Ukraine, UAE, UK, US, Uruguay, Venezuela, Yugoslavia

membership pending - (5) Bangladesh, Bulgaria, Jamaica, Mauritania,
Qatar

International Labor Organization (ILO):  established - 28 June 1919 set
up as part of Treaty of Versailles; 11 April 1919 became operative; 14
December 1946 affiliated with the UN

aim - to deal with world labor issues; a UN specialized agency

members - (175) Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Antigua and
Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, The
Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belgium, Belize,
Benin, Bolivia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil, Bulgaria,
Burkina Faso, Burma, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada, Cape Verde,
Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Comoros,
Democratic Republic of the Congo, Republic of the Congo, Costa Rica,
Cote d'Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark,
Djibouti, Dominica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador,
Equatorial Guinea, Eritrea, Estonia, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France,
Gabon, The Gambia, Georgia, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Grenada, Guatemala,
Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland,
India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan,
Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kiribati, South Korea, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan,
Laos, Latvia, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libya, Lithuania, Luxembourg,
The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Madagascar, Malawi,
Malaysia, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Moldova,
Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Namibia, Nepal, Netherlands, NZ,
Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New
Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania,
Russia, Rwanda, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and
the Grenadines, San Marino, Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia,
Senegal, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia,
Solomon Islands, Somalia, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan,
Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Switzerland, Syria, Tajikistan, Tanzania,
Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Turkmenistan,
Uganda, Ukraine, UAE, UK, US, Uruguay, Uzbekistan, Venezuela, Vietnam,
Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zambia, Zimbabwe

International Maritime Organization (IMO):  note - name changed from
Intergovernmental Maritime Consultative Organization (IMCO) on 22 May
1982

established - 6 March 1948 set up as the Inter-Governmental Maritime
Consultative Organization; effective - 17 March 1958

aim - to deal with international maritime affairs; a UN specialized
agency

members - (158) Albania, Algeria, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda,
Argentina, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, The Bahamas, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Barbados, Belgium, Belize, Benin, Bolivia, Bosnia and
Herzegovina, Brazil, Brunei, Bulgaria, Burma, Cambodia, Cameroon,
Canada, Cape Verde, Chile, China, Colombia, Democratic Republic of the
Congo, Republic of the Congo, Costa Rica, Cote d'Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba,
Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominica, Dominican
Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Equatorial Guinea, Eritrea,
Estonia, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France, Gabon, The Gambia, Georgia,
Germany, Ghana, Greece, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau,
Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran,
Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan,
Kenya, North Korea, South Korea, Kuwait, Latvia, Lebanon, Liberia,
Libya, Lithuania, Luxembourg, The Former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Malta, Marshall
Islands, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Monaco, Mongolia, Morocco,
Mozambique, Namibia, Nepal, Netherlands, NZ, Nicaragua, Nigeria,
Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru,
Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Russia, Saint Lucia,
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Samoa, Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi
Arabia, Senegal, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Slovakia,
Slovenia, Solomon Islands, Somalia, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka,
Sudan, Suriname, Sweden, Switzerland, Syria, Tanzania, Thailand, Togo,
Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Turkmenistan, Ukraine,
UAE, UK, US, Uruguay, Vanuatu, Venezuela, Vietnam, Yemen, Yugoslavia

associate members - (2) Hong Kong, Macau

International Mobile Satellite Organization (Inmarsat):  note -
formerly International Maritime Satellite Organization

established - 3 September 1976; effective - 16 July 1979

aim - to provide worldwide communications for commercial, distress, and
safety applications, at sea, in the air, and on land

members - (86) Algeria, Argentina, Australia, The Bahamas, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Belarus, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Brazil, Brunei,
Bulgaria, Cameroon, Canada, Chile, China, Colombia, Costa Rica,
Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Egypt, Finland, France,
Gabon, Georgia, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, India,
Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Israel, Italy, Japan, Kenya, South Korea,
Kuwait, Latvia, Lebanon, Liberia, Malaysia, Malta, Marshall Islands,
Mauritius, Mexico, Monaco, Mozambique, Netherlands, NZ, Nigeria,
Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal,
Qatar, Romania, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Singapore, Slovakia,
South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sweden, Switzerland, Tanzania,
Thailand, Tunisia, Turkey, Ukraine, UAE, UK, US, Vietnam, Yugoslavia

International Monetary Fund (IMF):  established - 22 July 1944;
effective - 27 December 1945

aim - to promote world monetary stability and economic development; a
UN specialized agency

members - (183) Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Antigua and
Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, The
Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belgium, Belize,
Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil,
Brunei, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burma, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon,
Canada, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, China,
Colombia, Comoros, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Republic of the
Congo, Costa Rica, Cote d'Ivoire, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic,
Denmark, Djibouti, Dominica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El
Salvador, Equatorial Guinea, Eritrea, Estonia, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland,
France, Gabon, The Gambia, Georgia, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Grenada,
Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary,
Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica,
Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kiribati, South Korea, Kuwait,
Kyrgyzstan, Laos, Latvia, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libya, Lithuania,
Luxembourg, The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Madagascar,
Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Marshall Islands, Mauritania,
Mauritius, Mexico, Federated States of Micronesia, Moldova, Mongolia,
Morocco, Mozambique, Namibia, Nepal, Netherlands, NZ, Nicaragua, Niger,
Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Palau, Panama, Papua New Guinea,
Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Russia,
Rwanda, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the
Grenadines, Samoa, San Marino, Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia,
Senegal, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia,
Solomon Islands, Somalia, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan,
Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Switzerland, Syria, Tajikistan, Tanzania,
Thailand, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey,
Turkmenistan, Uganda, Ukraine, UAE, UK, US, Uruguay, Uzbekistan,
Vanuatu, Venezuela, Vietnam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zambia, Zimbabwe

International Olympic Committee (IOC):  established - 23 June 1894

aim - to promote the Olympic ideals and administer the Olympic games:
2002 Winter Olympics in Salt Lake City, United States; 2004 Summer
Olympics in Athens, Greece; 2006 Winter Olympics in Turin, Italy

National Olympic Committees - (199 and the Palestine Liberation
Organization) Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, American Samoa, Andorra,
Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia, Aruba, Australia,
Austria, Azerbaijan, The Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados,
Belarus, Belgium, Belize, Benin, Bermuda, Bhutan, Bolivia, Bosnia and
Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil, British Virgin Islands, Brunei,
Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burma, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada,
Cape Verde, Cayman Islands, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile,
China, Colombia, Comoros, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Republic of
the Congo, Cook Islands, Costa Rica, Cote d'Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba,
Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominica, Dominican
Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Equatorial Guinea, Eritrea,
Estonia, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France, Gabon, The Gambia, Georgia,
Germany, Ghana, Greece, Grenada, Guam, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-
Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Hong Kong, Hungary, Iceland, India,
Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan,
Kazakhstan, Kenya, North Korea, South Korea, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Laos,
Latvia, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libya, Liechtenstein, Lithuania,
Luxembourg, The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Madagascar,
Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico,
Federated States of Micronesia, Moldova, Monaco, Mongolia, Morocco,
Mozambique, Namibia, Nauru, Nepal, Netherlands, Netherlands Antilles,
NZ, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Palau, Panama,
Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Puerto
Rico, Qatar, Romania, Russia, Rwanda, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint
Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Samoa, San Marino, Sao Tome
and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Seychelles, Sierra Leone,
Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands, Somalia, South Africa,
Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Switzerland,
Syria, Taiwan, Tajikistan, Tanzania, Thailand, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad
and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Turkmenistan, Uganda, Ukraine, UAE, UK,
US, Uruguay, Uzbekistan, Vanuatu, Venezuela, Vietnam, Virgin Islands,
Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zambia, Zimbabwe, Palestine Liberation Organization

International Organization for Migration (IOM):  note - established as
Provisional Intergovernmental Committee for the Movement of Migrants
from Europe; renamed Intergovernmental Committee for European Migration
(ICEM) on 15 November 1952; renamed Intergovernmental Committee for
Migration (ICM) in November 1980; current name adopted 14 November 1989

established - 5 December 1951

aim - to facilitate orderly international emigration and immigration

members - (79) Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Armenia, Australia,
Austria, Bangladesh, Belgium, Belize, Benin, Bolivia, Bulgaria, Burkina
Faso, Canada, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cote d'Ivoire Croatia,
Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El
Salvador, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-
Bissau, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, Israel, Italy, Japan, Jordan, Kenya,
South Korea, Kyrgyzstan, Latvia, Liberia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Mali,
Morocco, Netherlands, Nicaragua, Norway, Pakistan, Panama, Paraguay,
Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Senegal, Slovakia,
Slovenia, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Sweden, Switzerland,
Tajikistan, Tanzania, Thailand, Tunisia, Uganda, US, Uruguay,
Venezuela, Yemen, Zambia

observers - (43) Afghanistan, Belarus, Bhutan, Bosnia and Herzegovina,
Brazil, Cambodia, Cape Verde, Democratic Republic of the Congo,
Republic of the Congo, Cuba, Estonia, Ethiopia, Georgia, Ghana, Holy
See, India, Indonesia, Iran, Ireland, Jamaica, Kazakhstan, The Former
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Madagascar, Malta, Mexico, Moldova,
Mozambique, Namibia, NZ, Papua New Guinea, Russia, Rwanda, San Marino,
Sao Tome and Principe, Somalia, Spain, Turkey, Turkmenistan, Ukraine,
UK, Vietnam, Yugoslavia, Zimbabwe

International Organization for Standardization (ISO):  established - NA
February 1947

aim - to promote the development of international standards with a view
to facilitating international exchange of goods and services and to
developing cooperation in the sphere of intellectual, scientific,
technological and economic activity

members - (91 national standards organizations) Algeria, Argentina,
Armenia, Australia, Austria, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belgium,
Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil, Bulgaria, Canada, Chile,
China, Colombia, Costa Rica, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech Republic,
Denmark, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Finland, France, Germany, Ghana,
Greece, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran, Ireland, Israel,
Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, North Korea, South Korea,
Kuwait, Libya, Luxembourg, The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia,
Malaysia, Malta, Mauritius, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Netherlands, NZ,
Nigeria, Norway, Pakistan, Panama, Philippines, Poland, Portugal,
Romania, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, South
Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sweden, Switzerland, Syria, Tanzania,
Thailand, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Ukraine, UAE, UK, US,
Uruguay, Uzbekistan, Venezuela, Vietnam, Yugoslavia, Zimbabwe

correspondent members - (34) Albania, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Bolivia,
Brunei, Cameroon, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Cote d'Ivoire, El
Salvador, Estonia, Guatemala, Honduras, Hong Kong, Jordan, Kyrgyzstan,
Latvia, Lebanon, Lithuania, Madagascar, Malawi, Moldova, Mozambique,
Namibia, Nepal, Nicaragua, Oman, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru,
Qatar, Rwanda, Sudan, Turkmenistan, Uganda

subscriber members - (11) Benin, Burkina Faso, Cambodia, Comoros,
Dominican Republic, Fiji, Grenada, Guyana, Lesotho, Mali, Saint Lucia

International Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement (ICRM):  established
- NA 1928

aim - to promote worldwide humanitarian aid through the International
Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) in wartime, and International
Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies (IFRCS; formerly
League of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies or LORCS) in peacetime

National Societies - (176 countries); note - same as membership for
International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies
(IFRCS)

International Telecommunication Union (ITU):  established - 17 May 1865
set up as the International Telegraph Union; 9 December 1932 adopted
present name

effective - 1 January 1934; affiliated with the UN - 15 November 1947

aim - to deal with world telecommunications issues; a UN specialized
agency

members - (189) Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Andorra, Angola, Antigua
and Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, The
Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belgium, Belize,
Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil,
Brunei, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burma, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon,
Canada, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, China,
Colombia, Comoros, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Republic of the
Congo, Costa Rica, Cote d'Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech
Republic, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador,
Egypt, El Salvador, Equatorial Guinea, Eritrea, Estonia, Ethiopia,
Fiji, Finland, France, Gabon, The Gambia, Georgia, Germany, Ghana,
Greece, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Holy
See, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Ireland,
Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kiribati,
North Korea, South Korea, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Laos, Latvia, Lebanon,
Lesotho, Liberia, Libya, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, The
Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia,
Maldives, Mali, Malta, Marshall Islands, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico,
Federated States of Micronesia, Moldova, Monaco, Mongolia, Morocco,
Mozambique, Namibia, Nauru, Nepal, Netherlands, NZ, Nicaragua, Niger,
Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay,
Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Russia, Rwanda,
Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Samoa, San Marino, Sao
Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Seychelles, Sierra Leone,
Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands, Somalia, South Africa,
Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Switzerland,
Syria, Tajikistan, Tanzania, Thailand, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and
Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Turkmenistan, Tuvalu, Uganda, Ukraine, UAE,
UK, US, Uruguay, Uzbekistan, Vanuatu, Venezuela, Vietnam, Yemen,
Yugoslavia, Zambia, Zimbabwe

International Telecommunications Satellite Organization (Intelsat):
established - 20 August 1964 set up as the Telecommunications Satellite
Consortium; 12 February 1973 adopted present name

aim - to develop and operate a global commercial telecommunications
satellite system

members - (143) Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Armenia,
Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, The Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh,
Barbados, Belgium, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Bosnia and Herzegovina,
Botswana, Brazil, Brunei, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Canada,
Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia,
Comoros, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Republic of the Congo, Costa
Rica, Cote d'Ivoire, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark,
Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Equatorial Guinea,
Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France, Gabon, Germany, Ghana, Greece,
Guatemala, Guinea, Haiti, Holy See, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India,
Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan,
Kazakhstan, Kenya, South Korea, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Lebanon, Libya,
Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Mali, Malta,
Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Federated States of Micronesia, Monaco,
Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Namibia, Nepal, Netherlands, NZ,
Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New
Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania,
Russia, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Singapore, Somalia, South
Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Swaziland, Sweden, Switzerland, Syria,
Tajikistan, Tanzania, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia,
Turkey, Uganda, UAE, UK, US, Uruguay, Uzbekistan, Venezuela, Vietnam,
Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zambia, Zimbabwe

nonsignatory users - (42) Albania, Antigua and Barbuda, Belarus,
Belize, Burma, Burundi, Cambodia, Cook Islands, Cuba, Djibouti,
Eritrea, The Gambia, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Kiribati, North Korea,
Laos, Latvia, Lesotho, Liberia, Lithuania, The Former Yugoslav Republic
of Macedonia, Maldives, Marshall Islands, Moldova, Nauru, Niue, Saint
Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Samoa, Sao Tome and Principe,
Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands,
Suriname, Tonga, Turkmenistan, Tuvalu, Ukraine, Vanuatu

Islamic Development Bank (IDB):  established - 15 December 1973 by
declaration of intent; effective - 12 August 1974

aim - to promote Islamic economic aid and social development

members - (52 plus the Palestine Liberation Organization) Afghanistan,
Albania, Algeria, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Benin, Brunei,
Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Chad, Comoros, Djibouti, Egypt, Gabon, The
Gambia, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Jordan,
Kazakhstan, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Lebanon, Libya, Malaysia, Maldives,
Mali, Mauritania, Morocco, Mozambique, Niger, Oman, Pakistan, Qatar,
Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Somalia, Sudan, Suriname, Syria,
Tajikistan, Togo, Tunisia, Turkey, Turkmenistan, Uganda, UAE, Yemen,
Palestine Liberation Organization

Latin American Economic System (LAES):  note - also known as Sistema
Economico Latinoamericana (SELA)

established - 17 October 1975

aim - to promote economic and social development through regional
cooperation

members - (28) Argentina, The Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, Bolivia,
Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Dominican Republic, Ecuador,
El Salvador, Grenada, Guatemala, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Jamaica,
Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Suriname, Trinidad and
Tobago, Uruguay, Venezuela

observers - (21) Andean Promotion Corporation, China, Costa Rica,
Dominican Republic, El Salvador, EEC, Guatemala, Honduras, IADB, Inter-
American Institute for Agricultural Cooperation, Italy, Nicaragua, OAS,
Panama, Portugal, Romania, Russia, Spain, Switzerland, UN Development
Program, UN Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean

Latin American Integration Association (LAIA):  note - also known as
Asociacion Latinoamericana de Integracion (ALADI)

established - 12 August 1980; effective - 18 March 1981

aim - to promote freer regional trade

members - (12) Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Cuba,
Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, Venezuela

observers - (22) China, Commission of the European Communities,
Corporacion Andina de Fomento, Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, El
Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Inter-American Development Bank, Inter-
American Institute for Cooperation on Agriculture, Italy, Latin America
Economic System, Nicaragua, Organization of American States, Panama,
Portugal, Romania, Russia, Spain, Switzerland, United Nations
Development Program, United Nations Economic Commission for Latin
America and the Caribbean

least developed countries (LLDCs):  that subgroup of the less developed
countries (LDCs) initially identified by the UN General Assembly in
1971 as having no significant economic growth, per capita GDPs normally
less than $1,000, and low literacy rates; also known as the undeveloped
countries; the 42 LLDCs are: Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Benin, Bhutan,
Botswana, Burkina Faso, Burma, Burundi, Cape Verde, Central African
Republic, Chad, Comoros, Djibouti, Equatorial Guinea, Eritrea,
Ethiopia, The Gambia, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Haiti, Kiribati, Laos,
Lesotho, Malawi, Maldives, Mali, Mauritania, Mozambique, Nepal, Niger,
Rwanda, Samoa, Sao Tome and Principe, Sierra Leone, Somalia, Sudan,
Tanzania, Togo, Tuvalu, Uganda, Vanuatu, Yemen

less developed countries (LDCs):  the bottom group in the hierarchy of
developed countries (DCs), former USSR/Eastern Europe (former USSR/EE),
and less developed countries (LDCs); mainly countries and dependent
areas with low levels of output, living standards, and technology; per
capita GDPs are generally below $5,000 and often less than $1,500;
however, the group also includes a number of countries with high per
capita incomes, areas of advanced technology, and rapid rates of
growth; includes the advanced developing countries, developing
countries, Four Dragons (Four Tigers), least developed countries
(LLDCs), low-income countries, middle-income countries, newly
industrializing economies (NIEs), the South, Third World,
underdeveloped countries, undeveloped countries; the 172 LDCs are:
Afghanistan, Algeria, American Samoa, Angola, Anguilla, Antigua and
Barbuda, Argentina, Aruba, The Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados,
Belize, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, British Virgin
Islands, Brunei, Burkina Faso, Burma, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Cape
Verde, Cayman Islands, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, China,
Christmas Island, Cocos Islands, Colombia, Comoros, Democratic Republic
of the Congo, Republic of the Congo, Cook Islands, Costa Rica, Cote
d'Ivoire, Cuba, Cyprus, Djibouti, Dominica, Dominican Republic,
Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Equatorial Guinea, Eritrea, Ethiopia,
Falkland Islands, Fiji, French Guiana, French Polynesia, Gabon, The
Gambia, Gaza Strip, Ghana, Gibraltar, Greenland, Grenada, Guadeloupe,
Guam, Guatemala, Guernsey, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti,
Honduras, Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Jamaica, Jersey,
Jordan, Kenya, Kiribati, North Korea, South Korea, Kuwait, Laos,
Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libya, Macau, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia,
Maldives, Mali, Isle of Man, Marshall Islands, Martinique, Mauritania,
Mauritius, Mayotte, Federated States of Micronesia, Mongolia,
Montserrat, Morocco, Mozambique, Namibia, Nauru, Nepal, Netherlands
Antilles, New Caledonia, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Niue, Norfolk
Island, Northern Mariana Islands, Oman, Palau, Pakistan, Panama, Papua
New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Pitcairn Islands, Puerto Rico,
Qatar, Reunion, Rwanda, Saint Helena, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint
Lucia, Saint Pierre and Miquelon, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines,
Samoa, Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Seychelles, Sierra
Leone, Singapore, Solomon Islands, Somalia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname,
Swaziland, Syria, Taiwan, Tanzania, Thailand, Togo, Tokelau, Tonga,
Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turks and Caicos Islands, Tuvalu, UAE,
Uganda, Uruguay, Vanuatu, Venezuela, Vietnam, Virgin Islands, Wallis
and Futuna, West Bank, Western Sahara, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe; note -
similar to the new International Monetary Fund (IMF) term "developing
countries" which adds Malta, Mexico, South Africa, and Turkey but omits
in its recently published statistics American Samoa, Anguilla, British
Virgin Islands, Brunei, Cayman Islands, Christmas Island, Cocos
Islands, Cook Islands, Cuba, Eritrea, Falkland Islands, French Guiana,
French Polynesia, Gaza Strip, Gibraltar, Greenland, Grenada,
Guadeloupe, Guam, Guernsey, Jersey, North Korea, Macau, Isle of Man,
Martinique, Mayotte, Montserrat, Nauru, New Caledonia, Niue, Norfolk
Island, Northern Mariana Islands, Palau, Pitcairn Islands, Puerto Rico,
Reunion, Saint Helena, Saint Pierre and Miquelon, Tokelau, Tonga, Turks
and Caicos Islands, Tuvalu, Virgin Islands, Wallis and Futuna, West
Bank, Western Sahara

low-income countries:  another term for those less developed countries
with below-average per capita GDPs; see less developed countries (LDCs)

middle-income countries:  another term for those less developed
countries with above-average per capita GDPs; see less developed
countries (LDCs)

Monetary and Economic Community of Central Africa (CEMAC):  note - was
formerly the Central African Customs and Economic Union (UDEAC)

established - 8 December 1964; effective - 1 January 1966

aim - to promote the establishment of a Central African Common Market

members - (6) Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Republic of the
Congo, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon

Near Abroad:  Russian term for the 14 non-Russian successor states of
the USSR, in which 25 million ethnic Russians live and in which Moscow
has expressed a strong national security interest; the 14 countries are
Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Estonia, Georgia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan,
Latvia, Lithuania, Moldova, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Ukraine,
Uzbekistan

new independent states (NIS):  a term referring to all those countries
of the FSU except the Baltic countries (Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania)

newly industrializing countries (NICs):  former term for the newly
industrializing economies; see newly industrializing economies (NIEs)

newly industrializing economies (NIEs):  that subgroup of the less
developed countries (LDCs) that has experienced particularly rapid
industrialization of their economies; formerly known as the newly
industrializing countries (NICs); also known as advanced developing
countries; usually includes the Four Dragons (Hong Kong, South Korea,
Singapore, Taiwan), and Brazil

Nonaligned Movement (NAM):  established - 1-6 September 1961

aim - to establish political and military cooperation apart from the
traditional East or West blocs

members - (113 plus the Palestine Liberation Organization) Afghanistan,
Algeria, Angola, The Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus,
Belize, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brunei, Burkina Faso, Burma,
Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Central African Republic,
Chad, Chile, Colombia, Comoros, Democratic Republic of the Congo,
Republic of the Congo, Cote d'Ivoire, Cuba, Cyprus, Djibouti, Ecuador,
Egypt, Equatorial Guinea, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Gabon, The Gambia, Ghana,
Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Honduras, India,
Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, North Korea, Kuwait,
Laos, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libya, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia,
Maldives, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mongolia, Morocco,
Mozambique, Namibia, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan,
Panama, Papua New Guinea, Peru, Philippines, Qatar, Rwanda, Saint
Lucia, Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Seychelles, Sierra
Leone, Singapore, Somalia, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname,
Swaziland, Syria, Tanzania, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago,
Tunisia, Turkmenistan, Uganda, UAE, Uzbekistan, Vanuatu, Venezuela,
Vietnam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zambia, Zimbabwe, Palestine Liberation
Organization

observers - (16) Antigua and Barbuda, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Brazil,
China, Costa Rica, Croatia, Dominica, Dominican Republic, El Salvador,
Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Mexico, Paraguay, Ukraine, Uruguay

guests - (28) Australia, Austria, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria,
Canada, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Holy See, Hungary, Ireland,
Italy, Japan, South Korea, Netherlands, NZ, Norway, Poland, Portugal,
Romania, Russia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Sweden, Switzerland, UK, US

Nordic Council (NC):  established - 16 March 1952; effective - 12
February 1953

aim - to promote regional economic, cultural, and environmental
cooperation

members - (5) Denmark (including Faroe Islands and Greenland), Finland
(including Aland Islands), Iceland, Norway, Sweden

observers - (3) the Sami (Lapp) local parliaments of Finland, Norway,
and Sweden

Nordic Investment Bank (NIB):  established - 4 December 1975; effective
- 1 June 1976

aim - to promote economic cooperation and development

members - (5) Denmark (including Faroe Islands and Greenland), Finland
(including Aland Islands), Iceland, Norway, Sweden

North:  a popular term for the rich industrialized countries generally
located in the northern portion of the Northern Hemisphere; the
counterpart of the South; see developed countries (DCs)

North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO):  established - 4 April 1949

aim - to promote mutual defense and cooperation

members - (19) Belgium, Canada, Czech Republic, Denmark, France,
Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands,
Norway, Poland, Portugal, Spain, Turkey, UK, US

Nuclear Energy Agency (NEA):  note - also known as OECD Nuclear Energy
Agency

established - 1 February 1958

aim - to promote the peaceful uses of nuclear energy; associated with
OECD

members - (27) Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Czech Republic,
Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland,
Italy, Japan, South Korea, Luxembourg, Mexico, Netherlands, Norway,
Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, UK, US

Nuclear Suppliers Group (NSG):  note - also known as the London
Suppliers Group or the London Group

established - NA 1974; effective - NA 1975

aim - to establish guidelines for exports of nuclear materials,
processing equipment for uranium enrichment, and technical information
to countries of proliferation concern and regions of conflict and
instability

members - (39) Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belarus, Belgium, Brazil,
Bulgaria, Canada, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, France,
Germany, Greece, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, Japan, South Korea, Latvia,
Luxembourg, Netherlands, NZ, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russia,
Slovakia, Slovenia, South Africa, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey,
Ukraine, UK, US

observer - (1) European Commission (a policy-planning body for the EU)

Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD):
established - 14 December 1960; effective - 30 September 1961

aim - to promote economic cooperation and development

members - (30) Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Czech Republic,
Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland,
Italy, Japan, South Korea, Luxembourg, Mexico, Netherlands, NZ, Norway,
Poland, Portugal, Slovakia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, UK, US

special member - (1) EU

Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE):  note -
formerly the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE)
established 3 July 1975

established - 1 January 1995

aim - to foster the implementation of human rights, fundamental
freedoms, democracy, and the rule of law; to act as an instrument of
early warning, conflict prevention, and crisis management; and to serve
as a framework for conventional arms control and confidence building
measures

members - (55) Albania, Andorra, Armenia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Belarus,
Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Canada, Croatia, Cyprus,
Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany,
Greece, Holy See, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Kazakhstan,
Kyrgyzstan, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, The Former
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Malta, Moldova, Monaco, Netherlands,
Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russia, San Marino, Slovakia,
Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Tajikistan, Turkey, Turkmenistan,
Ukraine, UK, US, Uzbekistan, Yugoslavia

partners for cooperation - (9) Algeria, Egypt, Israel, Japan, Jordan,
South Korea, Morocco, Thailand, Tunisia

Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons (OPCW):
established - 29 April 1997

aim - to enforce the Convention on the Prohibition of the Development,
Production, Stockpiling and Use of Chemical Weapons and on Their
Destruction; to provide a forum for consultation and cooperation among
the signatories of the Convention

members - (174) Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Argentina, Armenia,
Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, The Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh,
Belarus, Belgium, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Bosnia and Herzegovina,
Botswana, Brazil, Brunei, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burma, Burundi,
Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad,
Chile, China, Colombia, Comoros, Democratic Republic of the Congo,
Republic of the Congo, Cook Islands, Costa Rica, Cote d'Ivoire,
Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominica,
Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Eritrea, Equatorial Guinea,
Estonia, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France, Gabon, The Gambia, Georgia,
Germany, Ghana, Greece, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau,
Guyana, Haiti, Holy See, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia,
Iran, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan,
Kenya, Kiribati, South Korea, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Laos, Latvia,
Lesotho, Liberia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, The Former
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives,
Mali, Malta, Marshall Islands, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Federated
States of Micronesia, Moldova, Monaco, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique,
Namibia, Nauru, Nepal, Netherlands, NZ, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria,
Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru,
Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Russia, Rwanda, Saint
Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Samoa,
San Marino, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Singapore,
Slovakia, Slovenia, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname,
Swaziland, Sweden, Switzerland, Tajikistan, Tanzania, Thailand, Togo,
Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Turkmenistan, Uganda, Ukraine,
UAE, UK, US, Uruguay, Uzbekistan, Venezuela, Vietnam, Yemen,
Yugoslavia, Zambia, Zimbabwe

Organization of African Unity (OAU):  established - 25 May 1963

aim - to promote unity and cooperation among African states

members - (53) Algeria, Angola, Benin, Botswana, Burkina Faso, Burundi,
Cameroon, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros,
Democratic Republic of the Congo, Republic of the Congo, Cote d'Ivoire,
Djibouti, Egypt, Equatorial Guinea, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Gabon, The
Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Kenya, Lesotho, Liberia, Libya,
Madagascar, Malawi, Mali, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mozambique, Namibia,
Niger, Nigeria, Rwanda, Sahrawi Arab Democratic Republic, Sao Tome and
Principe, Senegal, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Somalia, South Africa,
Sudan, Swaziland, Tanzania, Togo, Tunisia, Uganda, Zambia, Zimbabwe

Organization of American States (OAS):  established - 14 April 1890 as
the International Union of American Republics; 30 April 1948 adopted
present charter; effective - 13 December 1951

aim - to promote regional peace and security as well as economic and
social development

members - (35) Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, The Bahamas, Barbados,
Belize, Bolivia, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba
(excluded from formal participation since 1962), Dominica, Dominican
Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Grenada, Guatemala, Guyana, Haiti,
Honduras, Jamaica, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Saint
Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines,
Suriname, Trinidad and Tobago, US, Uruguay, Venezuela

observers - (50) Algeria, Angola, Austria, Azerbaijan, Belgium, Bosnia
and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark,
Egypt, Equatorial Guinea, EU, Finland, France, Germany, Ghana, Greece,
Holy See, Hungary, India, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Kazakhstan,
South Korea, Latvia, Lebanon, Morocco, Netherlands, Norway, Pakistan,
Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Spain,
Sri Lanka, Sweden, Switzerland, Thailand, Tunisia, Turkey, Ukraine, UK,
Yemen

Organization of Arab Petroleum Exporting Countries (OAPEC):
established - 9 January 1968

aim - to promote cooperation in the petroleum industry

members - (10) Algeria, Bahrain, Egypt, Iraq, Kuwait, Libya, Qatar,
Saudi Arabia, Syria, UAE

Organization of Eastern Caribbean States (OECS):  established - 18 June
1981; effective - 4 July 1981

aim - to promote political, economic, and defense cooperation

members - (7) Antigua and Barbuda, Dominica, Grenada, Montserrat, Saint
Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines

associate members - (2) Anguilla, British Virgin Islands

Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC):  established - 14
September 1960

aim - to coordinate petroleum policies

members - (11) Algeria, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Kuwait, Libya, Nigeria,
Qatar, Saudi Arabia, UAE, Venezuela

Organization of the Islamic Conference (OIC):  established - 22-25
September 1969

aim - to promote Islamic solidarity in economic, social, cultural, and
political affairs

members - (55 plus the Palestine Liberation Organization) Afghanistan,
Albania, Algeria, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Benin, Brunei,
Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Chad, Comoros, Djibouti, Egypt, Gabon, The
Gambia, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Jordan,
Kazakhstan, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Lebanon, Libya, Malaysia, Maldives,
Mali, Mauritania, Morocco, Mozambique, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan,
Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Somalia, Sudan, Suriname,
Syria, Tajikistan, Togo, Tunisia, Turkey, Turkmenistan, Uganda, UAE,
Uzbekistan, Yemen, Palestine Liberation Organization

observers - (12) Bosnia and Herzegovina, Central African Republic, Cote
d'Ivoire, ECO, LAS, NAM, Moro National Liberation Front of the
Philippines, OAU, Thailand, Turkish Muslim Community of Kirbris,
"Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus", UN

Pacific Community:  note - formerly known as the South Pacific
Commission (SPC)

established - 6 February 1947; effective - 29 July 1948

aim - to promote regional cooperation in economic and social matters

members - (27) American Samoa, Australia, Cook Islands, Fiji, France,
French Polynesia, Guam, Kiribati, Marshall Islands, Federated States of
Micronesia, Nauru, New Caledonia, NZ, Niue, Northern Mariana Islands,
Palau, Papua New Guinea, Pitcairn Islands, Samoa, Solomon Islands,
Tokelau, Tonga, Tuvalu, UK, US, Vanuatu, Wallis and Futuna

Partnership for Peace (PFP):  established - 10-11 January 1994

aim - to expand and intensify political and military cooperation
throughout Europe, increase stability, diminish threats to peace, and
build relationships by promoting the spirit of practical cooperation
and commitment to democratic principles that underpin NATO; program
under the auspices of NATO

members - (29) Albania, Armenia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Belarus,
Bulgaria, Croatia, Czech Republic, Estonia, Finland, Georgia, Hungary,
Ireland, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Latvia, Lithuania, The Former Yugoslav
Republic of Macedonia, Moldova, Poland, Romania, Russia, Slovakia,
Slovenia, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, Uzbekistan

Permanent Court of Arbitration (PCA):  established - 29 July 1899

aim - to facilitate the settlement of international disputes

members - (78) Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belarus, Belgium,
Bolivia, Brazil, Bulgaria, Canada, Chile, China, Colombia, Democratic
Republic of the Congo, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark,
Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Finland, France,
Germany, Greece, Guatemala, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, India,
Iran, Iraq, Israel, Italy, Japan, Jordan, South Korea, Laos, Lebanon,
Luxembourg, Malta, Mexico, Netherlands, NZ, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Norway,
Pakistan, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russia,
Senegal, Singapore, Slovakia, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan,
Suriname, Sweden, Switzerland, Thailand, Turkey, Uganda, Ukraine, UK,
US, Uruguay, Venezuela, Zambia, Zimbabwe

Rio Group (RG):  note - formerly known as Grupo de los Ocho,
established in December 1986; composed of the Contadora Group and the
Lima Group

established - NA 1988

aim - to consult on regional Latin American issues

members - (12) Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador,
Mexico, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, Venezuela

Second World:  another term for the traditionally Marxist-Leninist
states of the USSR and Eastern Europe, with authoritarian governments
and command economies based on the Soviet model; the term is fading
from use; see centrally planned economies

socialist countries:  in general, countries in which the government
owns and plans the use of the major factors of production; note - the
term is sometimes used incorrectly as a synonym for communist countries

South:  a popular term for the poorer, less industrialized countries
generally located south of the developed countries; the counterpart of
the North; see less developed countries (LDCs)

South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC):  established
- 8 December 1985

aim - to promote economic, social, and cultural cooperation

members - (7) Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, Maldives, Nepal, Pakistan, Sri
Lanka

South Pacific Forum (SPF):  established - 5 August 1971

aim - to promote regional cooperation in political matters

members - (16) Australia, Cook Islands, Fiji, Kiribati, Marshall
Islands, Federated States of Micronesia, Nauru, NZ, Niue, Palau, Papua
New Guinea, Samoa, Solomon Islands, Tonga, Tuvalu, Vanuatu

South Pacific Regional Trade and Economic Cooperation Agreement
(Sparteca):  established - NA 1981

aim - to redress unequal trade relationships of Australia and New
Zealand with small island economies in the Pacific region

members - (16) Australia, Cook Islands, Fiji, Kiribati, Marshall
Islands, Federated States of Micronesia, Nauru, NZ, Niue, Palau, Papua
New Guinea, Samoa, Solomon Islands, Tonga, Tuvalu, Vanuatu

Southern African Customs Union (SACU):  established - 11 December 1969

aim - to promote free trade and cooperation in customs matters

members - (5) Botswana, Lesotho, Namibia, South Africa, Swaziland

Southern African Development Community (SADC):  note - evolved from the
Southern African Development Coordination Conference (SADCC)

established - 17 August 1992

aim - to promote regional economic development and integration

members - (14) Angola, Botswana, Democratic Republic of the Congo,
Lesotho, Malawi, Mauritius, Mozambique, Namibia, Seychelles, South
Africa, Swaziland, Tanzania, Zambia, Zimbabwe

Southern Cone Common Market (Mercosur) or Southern Common Market:  note
- also known as Mercado Comun del Cono Sur (Mercosur)

established - 26 March 1991

aim - to increase regional economic cooperation

members - (4) Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay, Uruguay

associate member - (2) Bolivia, Chile

Third World:  another term for the less developed countries; the term
is obsolescent; see less developed countries (LDCs)

underdeveloped countries:  refers to those less developed countries
with the potential for above-average economic growth; see less
developed countries (LDCs)

undeveloped countries:  refers to those extremely poor less developed
countries (LDCs) with little prospect for economic growth; see least
developed countries (LLDCs)

United Nations (UN):  established - 26 June 1945; effective - 24
October 1945

aim - to maintain international peace and security and to promote
cooperation involving economic, social, cultural, and humanitarian
problems

constituent organizations - the UN is composed of six principal organs
and numerous subordinate agencies and bodies as follows:

1) Secretariat

2) General Assembly: International Research and Training Institute for
the Advancement of Women (INSTRAW), United Nations Center for Human
Settlements (Habitat), United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF), United
Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD), United Nations
Development Program (UNDP), United Nations Drug Control Program
(UNDCP), United Nations Environment Program (UNEP), United Nations High
Commissioner for Human Rights (UNHCHR), United Nations High
Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), United Nations Institute for
Disarmament Research (UNIDIR), United Nations Institute for Training
and Research (UNITAR), United Nations Interregional Crime and Justice
Research Institute (UNICRI), United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA),
United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the
Near East (UNRWA), United Nations Research Institute for Social
Development (UNRISD), and United Nations University (UNU), World Food
Program (WFP)

3) Security Council: International Criminal Tribunal for the Former
Yugoslavia (ICTY), International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda (ICTR),
United Nations Compensation Commission, United Nations Disengagement
Observer Force (UNDOF), United Nations Interim Administration Mission
in Kosovo (UNMIK), United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon (UNIFIL),
United Nations Iraq/Kuwait Boundary Demarcation Commission, United
Nations Iraq-Kuwait Observation Mission (UNIKOM), United Nations
Military Observer Group in India and Pakistan (UNMOGIP), United Nations
Mission for the Referendum in Western Sahara (MINURSO), United Nations
Mission in Bosnia and Herzegovina (UNMIBH), United Nations Mission in
Ethiopia and Eritrea (UNMEE), United Nations Mission in Sierra Leone
(UNAMSIL), United Nations Mission of Observers in Prevlaka (UNMOP),
United Nations Monitoring and Verification Commission (UNMOVIC), United
Nations Observer Mission in Georgia (UNOMIG), United Nations
Organization Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (MONUC),
United Nations Peace-Keeping Force in Cyprus (UNFICYP), United Nations
Transitional Administration in East Timor (UNTAET), and United Nations
Truce Supervision Organization (UNTSO)

4) Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC): Commission for Social
Development, Commission on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice,
Commission on Human Rights, Commission on Narcotics Drugs, Commission
on Population and Development, Commission on Science and Technology for
Development, Commission on Sustainable Development, Commission on the
Status of Women, Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the
Pacific (ESCAP), Economic and Social Commission for Western Asia
(ESCWA), Economic Commission for Africa (ECA), Economic Commission for
Europe (ECE), Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean
(ECLAC), Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO),
International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (IBRD), International Civil Aviation
Organization (ICAO), International Development Association (IDA),
International Finance Corporation (IFC), International Fund for
Agricultural Development (IFAD), International Labor Organization
(ILO), International Maritime Organization (IMO), International
Monetary Fund (IMF), International Telecommunication Union (ITU),
Statistical Commission, United Nations Educational, Scientific, and
Cultural Organization (UNESCO), United Nations Industrial Development
Organization (UNIDO), Universal Postal Union (UPU), World Health
Organization (WHO), World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO),
World Meteorological Organization (WMO), World Tourism Organization
(WToO), and World Trade Organization (WTrO)

5) Trusteeship Council (inactive; no trusteeships at this time)

6) International Court of Justice (ICJ)

UN members - (189) Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Andorra, Angola,
Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria,
Azerbaijan, The Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus,
Belgium, Belize, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Bosnia and Herzegovina,
Botswana, Brazil, Brunei, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burma, Burundi,
Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad,
Chile, China, Colombia, Comoros, Democratic Republic of the Congo,
Republic of the Congo, Costa Rica, Cote d'Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba,
Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominica, Dominican
Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Equatorial Guinea, Eritrea,
Estonia, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France, Gabon, The Gambia, Georgia,
Germany, Ghana, Greece, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau,
Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran,
Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan,
Kenya, Kiribati, North Korea, South Korea, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Laos,
Latvia, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libya, Liechtenstein, Lithuania,
Luxembourg, The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia,  Madagascar,
Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Marshall Islands, Mauritania,
Mauritius, Mexico, Federated States of Micronesia, Moldova, Monaco,
Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Namibia, Nauru, Nepal, Netherlands, NZ,
Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Palau, Panama, Papua
New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar,
Romania, Russia, Rwanda, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint
Vincent and the Grenadines, Samoa, San Marino, Sao Tome and Principe,
Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Slovakia,
Slovenia, Solomon Islands, Somalia, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka,
Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Syria, Tajikistan, Tanzania,
Thailand, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey,
Turkmenistan, Tuvalu, Uganda, Ukraine, UAE, UK, US, Uruguay,
Uzbekistan, Vanuatu, Venezuela, Vietnam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zambia,
Zimbabwe; note - all UN members are represented in the General Assembly

observers - (2 plus the Palestine Liberation Organization) Holy See,
Switzerland, Palestine Liberation Organization

United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF):  note - acronym retained from
the predecessor organization, UN International Children's Emergency
Fund

established - 11 December 1946

aim - to help establish child health and welfare services

members - (36) selected on a rotating basis from all regions

United Nations Civilian Police Mission in Haiti (MIPONUH):  established
28 November 1997; to support the professionalization of the Haitian
National Police; established by UN Security Council; members were
Argentina, Benin, Canada, France, India, Mali, Niger, Senegal, Togo,
Tunisia, US; mission ended March 2000

United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD):
established - 30 December 1964

aim - to promote international trade

members - (191) all UN members plus Holy See, Switzerland

United Nations Development Program (UNDP):  established - 22 November
1965

aim - to provide technical assistance to stimulate economic and social
development

members (executive board) - (36) selected on a rotating basis from all
regions

United Nations Disengagement Observer Force (UNDOF):  established - 31
May 1974

aim - to observe the 1973 Arab-Israeli cease-fire; established by the
UN Security Council

members - (5) Austria, Canada, Japan, Poland, Slovakia

United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization
(UNESCO):  established - 16 November 1945; effective - 4 November 1946

aim - to promote cooperation in education, science, and culture

members - (188) Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Andorra, Angola, Antigua
and Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, The
Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belgium, Belize,
Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil,
Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burma, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada,
Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia,
Comoros, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Republic of the Congo, Cook
Islands, Costa Rica, Cote d'Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech
Republic, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador,
Egypt, El Salvador, Equatorial Guinea, Eritrea, Estonia, Ethiopia,
Fiji, Finland, France, Gabon, The Gambia, Georgia, Germany, Ghana,
Greece, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti,
Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Ireland,
Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kiribati,
North Korea, South Korea, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Laos, Latvia, Lebanon,
Lesotho, Liberia, Libya, Lithuania, Luxembourg, The Former Yugoslav
Republic of Macedonia, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali,
Malta, Marshall Islands, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Federated
States of Micronesia, Moldova, Monaco, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique,
Namibia, Nauru, Nepal, Netherlands, NZ, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria,
Niue, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Palau, Panama, Papua New Guinea,
Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Russia,
Rwanda, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the
Grenadines, Samoa, San Marino, Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia,
Senegal, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands,
Somalia, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland,
Sweden, Switzerland, Syria, Tajikistan, Tanzania, Thailand, Togo,
Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Turkmenistan, Tuvalu,
Uganda, Ukraine, UAE, UK, Uruguay, Uzbekistan, Vanuatu, Venezuela,
Vietnam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zambia, Zimbabwe

associate members - (5) Aruba, British Virgin Islands, Cayman Islands,
Macau, Netherlands Antilles

United Nations Environment Program (UNEP):  established - 15 December
1972

aim - to promote international cooperation on all environmental matters

members - (58) selected on a rotating basis from all regions

United Nations General Assembly:  established - 26 June 1945; effective
- 24 October 1945

aim - to function as the primary deliberative organ of the UN

members - (189) all UN members are represented in the General Assembly

United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR):  established - 3
December 1949; effective - 1 January 1951

aim - to ensure the humanitarian treatment of refugees and find
permanent solutions to refugee problems

members (executive committee) - (57) Algeria, Argentina, Australia,
Austria, Bangladesh, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Chile, China, Colombia,
Democratic Republic of the Congo, Cote d'Ivoire, Denmark, Ethiopia,
Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Holy See, Hungary, Iceland, India,
Iran, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, South Korea, Lebanon, Lesotho,
Madagascar, Morocco, Mozambique, Namibia, Netherlands, Nicaragua,
Nigeria, Norway, Pakistan, Philippines, Poland, Russia, Somalia, South
Africa, Spain, Sudan, Sweden, Switzerland, Tanzania, Thailand, Tunisia,
Turkey, Uganda, UK, US, Venezuela

United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO):
established - 17 November 1966; effective - 1 January 1967

aim - UN specialized agency that promotes industrial development
especially among the members

members - (169) Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentina,
Armenia, Austria, Azerbaijan, The Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh,
Barbados, Belarus, Belgium, Belize, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Bosnia and
Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burma, Burundi,
Cambodia, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile,
China, Colombia, Comoros, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Republic of
the Congo, Costa Rica, Cote d'Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech
Republic, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador,
Egypt, El Salvador, Equatorial Guinea, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Fiji,
Finland, France, Gabon, The Gambia, Georgia, Germany, Ghana, Greece,
Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras,
Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica,
Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, North Korea, South Korea, Kuwait,
Kyrgyzstan, Laos, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libya, Lithuania,
Luxembourg, The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Madagascar,
Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico,
Moldova, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Namibia, Nepal, Netherlands,
NZ, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua
New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar,
Romania, Russia, Rwanda, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint
Vincent and the Grenadines, Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia,
Senegal, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Slovakia, Slovenia, Somalia, South
Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden,
Switzerland, Syria, Tajikistan, Tanzania, Thailand, Togo, Tonga,
Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Turkmenistan, Uganda, Ukraine,
UAE, UK, Uruguay, Uzbekistan, Vanuatu, Venezuela, Vietnam, Yemen,
Yugoslavia, Zambia, Zimbabwe

United Nations Institute for Training and Research (UNITAR):
established - 11 December 1963 adoption of the resolution establishing
the Institute; effective - 24 March 1965

aim - to help the UN become more effective through training and
research

members (Board of Trustees) - (20) Austria, Brazil, Cameroon, Chile,
China, Egypt, France, Ghana, Ireland, Japan, Kuwait, Mexico,
Netherlands, Nigeria, Russia, South Africa, Sweden, Switzerland,
Thailand, US; note - the UN Secretary General can appoint up to 30
members

United Nations Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo (UNMIK):
established - 10 June 1999

aim - to promote the establishment of substantial autonomy and self-
government in Kosovo; to perform basic civilian administrative
functions; to support the reconstruction of key infrastructure and
humanitarian and disaster relief

members - (49) Argentina, Austria, Bangladesh, Belgium, Bolivia,
Bulgaria, Canada, Czech Republic, Denmark, Egypt, Estonia, Fiji,
Finland, France, Germany, Ghana, Hungary, Iceland, India, Ireland,
Italy, Jordan, Kenya, Kyrgyzstan, Lithuania, Malawi, Malaysia, Nepal,
Netherlands, NZ, Nigeria, Norway, Pakistan, Philippines, Poland,
Portugal, Romania, Russia, Senegal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland,
Tunisia, Turkey, Ukraine UK, US, Zambia, Zimbabwe

United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon (UNIFIL):  established - 19
March 1978

aim - to confirm the withdrawal of Israeli forces, and assist in
reestablishing Lebanese authority in southern Lebanon; established by
the UN Security Council

members - (10) Fiji, Finland, France, Ghana, India, Ireland, Italy,
Nepal, Poland, Ukraine

United Nations Iraq-Kuwait Observation Mission (UNIKOM):  established -
9 April 1991

aim - to observe and monitor the demilitarized zone established between
Iraq and Kuwait; established by the UN Security Council

members - (33) Argentina, Austria, Bangladesh, Canada, China, Denmark,
Fiji, Finland, France, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Hungary, India,
Indonesia, Ireland, Italy, Kenya, Malaysia, Nigeria, Pakistan, Poland,
Romania, Russia, Senegal, Singapore, Sweden, Thailand, Turkey, UK, US,
Uruguay, Venezuela

United Nations Military Observer Group in India and Pakistan (UNMOGIP):
established - 24 January 1949

aim - to observe the 1949 India-Pakistan cease-fire; established by the
UN Security Council

members - (9) Belgium, Chile, Denmark, Finland, Hungary, Italy, South
Korea, Sweden, Uruguay

United Nations Mission for the Referendum in Western Sahara (MINURSO):
established - 29 April 1991

aim - to supervise the cease-fire and conduct a referendum in Western
Sahara; established by the UN Security Council

members - (30) Argentina, Austria, Bangladesh, Belgium, China, Egypt,
El Salvador, France, Ghana, Greece, Guinea, Honduras, Hungary, India,
Ireland, Italy, Jordan, Kenya, South Korea, Malaysia, Nigeria, Norway,
Pakistan, Poland, Portugal, Russia, Senegal, Sweden, US, Uruguay

United Nations Mission in Bosnia and Herzegovina (UNMIBH):  established
- 21 December 1995

aim - to establish an International Police Task Force (IPTF) to
implement the Dayton Peace Agreement in Bosnia and Herzegovina

members - (45) Argentina, Austria, Bangladesh, Bulgaria, Canada, Chile,
Czech Republic, Denmark, Egypt, Estonia, Fiji, Finland, France,
Germany, Ghana, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Ireland,
Italy, Jordan, Kenya, Malaysia, Nepal, Netherlands, Nigeria, Norway,
Pakistan, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russia, Senegal, Spain, Sweden,
Switzerland, Thailand, Tunisia, Turkey, Ukraine, UK, US, Vanuatu

United Nations Mission in Sierra Leone (UNAMSIL):  established - 22
October 1999

aim -  to cooperate with the Government of Sierra Leone and the other
parties to the Peace Agreement in the implementation of the agreement;
to monitor the military and security situation in Sierra Leone; to
monitor the disarmament and demobilization of combatants and members of
the Civil Defense Forces (CFD); to assist in monitoring respect for
international humanitarian law

members - (30) Bangladesh, Bolivia, Canada, Croatia, Czech Republic,
Denmark, Egypt, France, The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Indonesia, Jordan,
Kenya, Kyrgyzstan, Malaysia, Mali, Nepal, NZ, Nigeria, Norway,
Pakistan, Russia, Slovakia, Sweden, Thailand, Ukraine, UK, Uruguay,
Zambia

United Nations Mission of Observers in Prevlaka (UNMOP):  established -
1 February 1996

aim - to monitor the demilitarization of the Prevlaka peninsula in
southern Croatia

members - (25) Argentina, Bangladesh, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Czech
Republic, Denmark, Egypt, Finland, Ghana, Indonesia, Ireland, Jordan,
Kenya, Nepal, NZ, Nigeria, Norway, Pakistan, Poland, Portugal, Russia,
Sweden, Switzerland, Ukraine

United Nations Mission of Observers in Tajikistan (UNMOT):  established
16 December 1994; to monitor and investigate violations of the cease-
fire of 17 September 1994 between Tajikistan and the Tajik opposition
and to assist in the political negotiation process; established by the
UN Security Council; members were Austria, Bangladesh, Bulgaria, Czech
Republic, Denmark, Ghana, Indonesia, Jordan, Nepal, Nigeria, Poland,
Ukraine, Uruguay; mission ended May 2000

United Nations Monitoring and Verification Commission (UNMOVIC):  note
- formerly known as United Nations Special Commission for the
Elimination of Iraq's Weapons of Mass Destruction (UNSCOM)

established - NA December 1999

aim - to identify, account for, and eliminate Iraq's weapons of mass
destruction and the capacity to produce them

members - (22) Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, China, Czech
Republic, Finland, France, Germany, Indonesia, Italy, Japan,
Netherlands, Nigeria, Norway, Poland, Russia, Sri Lanka, Sweden, UK,
US, Venezuela

United Nations Observer Mission in Georgia (UNOMIG):  established - 24
August 1993

aim - to verify compliance with the cease-fire agreement, to monitor
weapons exclusion zone, and to supervise CIS peacekeeping force for
Abkhazia; established by the UN Security Council

members - (22) Albania, Austria, Bangladesh, Czech Republic,  Denmark,
Egypt, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Indonesia, Jordan, South
Korea, Pakistan, Poland, Russia, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, UK, US,
Uruguay

United Nations Organization Mission in the Democratic Republic of the
Congo (MONUC):  established - 30 November 1999

aim - to establish contacts with the signatories to the cease-fire
agreement and to plan for the observation of the cease-fire and
disengagement of forces

members - (36) Algeria, Bangladesh, Belgium, Benin, Bolivia, Burkina
Faso, Canada, Czech Republic, Denmark, Egypt, France, Ghana, India,
Jordan, Kenya, Libya, Malaysia, Mali, Morocco, Nepal, Niger, Nigeria,
Pakistan, Peru, Poland, Romania, Russia, Senegal, South Africa,
Switzerland, Tunisia, Ukraine, UK, Tanzania, Uruguay, Zambia

United Nations Peace-keeping Force in Cyprus (UNFICYP):  established -
4 March 1964

aim - to serve as a peacekeeping force between Greek Cypriots and
Turkish Cypriots in Cyprus; established by the UN Security Council

members - (10) Argentina, Austria, Canada, Finland, Hungary, Ireland,
Nepal, Netherlands, Slovenia, UK

United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA):  note - acronym retained from
predecessor organization UN Fund for Population Activities

established - NA July 1967

aim - to assist both developed and developing countries to deal with
their population problems

members (executive board ) - (36) selected on a rotating basis from all
regions

United Nations Preventive Deployment Force (UNPREDEP):  established 31
March 1995; to monitor border activity in the Former Yugoslav Republic
of Macedonia; members were Argentina, Bangladesh, Belgium, Brazil,
Canada, Czech Republic, Denmark, Egypt, Finland, Ghana, Indonesia,
Ireland, Jordan, Kenya, Nepal, NZ, Nigeria, Norway, Pakistan, Poland,
Portugal, Russia, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, Ukraine, US; mandate
ended 25 March 1999

United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the
Near East (UNRWA):  established - 8 December 1949

aim - to provide assistance to Palestinian refugees

members (advisory commission) - (10) Belgium, Egypt, France, Japan,
Jordan, Lebanon, Syria, Turkey, UK, US

United Nations Research Institute for Social Development (UNRISD):
established - NA 1963

aim - to conduct research into the problems of economic development
during different phases of economic growth

members - no country members, but a Board of Directors consisting of a
chairman appointed by the UN secretary general and 11 individual
members

United Nations Secretariat:  established - 26 June 1945; effective - 24
October 1945

aim - to serve as the primary administrative organ of the UN; a
Secretary General is appointed for a five-year term by the General
Assembly on the recommendation of the Security Council

members - the UN Secretary General and staff

United Nations Security Council:  established - 26 June 1945; effective
- 24 October 1945

aim - to maintain international peace and security

permanent members - (5) China, France, Russia, UK, US

nonpermanent members - (10) elected for two-year terms by the UN
General Assembly; Bangladesh (2000-01), Colombia (2001-02), Ireland
(2001-02), Jamaica (2000-01), Mali (2000-01), Mauritius (2001-02),
Norway (2001-02), Singapore (2001-02), Tunisia (2000-01), Ukraine
(2000-01)

United Nations Transitional Administration in East Timor (UNTAET):
established - 25 October 1999

aim - to provide security throughout the territory of East Timor; to
establish an effective administration; to ensure the coordination and
delivery of humanitarian assistance; to support capacity-building for
self-government

members - (47) Australia, Austria, Bangladesh, Benin, Bolivia, Bosnia
and Herzegovina, Brazil, Canada, Cape Verde, Chile, China, Denmark,
Egypt, Fiji, France, Ghana, Ireland, Jordan, Kenya, South Korea,
Malaysia, Mozambique, Namibia, Nepal, NZ, Nigeria, Norway, Pakistan,
Peru, Philippines, Portugal, Russia, Senegal, Singapore, Slovenia,
Spain, Sri Lanka, Sweden, Thailand, Turkey, Ukraine, UK, US, Uruguay,
Vanuatu, Zambia, Zimbabwe

United Nations Truce Supervision Organization (UNTSO):  established -
NA June 1948

aim - to supervise the 1948 Arab-Israeli cease-fire; currently supports
timely deployment of reinforcements to other peacekeeping operations in
the region as needed; initially established by the UN Security Council

members - (22) Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Chile,
China, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Ireland, Italy, Netherlands,
NZ, Norway, Russia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Sweden, Switzerland, US

United Nations Trusteeship Council:  established on 26 June 1945,
effective on 24 October 1945, to supervise the administration of the 11
UN trust territories; members were China, France, Russia, UK, US; it
formally suspended operations 1 November 1995 after the Trust Territory
of the Pacific Islands (Palau) became the Republic of Palau, a
constitutional government in free association with the US; the
Trusteeship Council was not dissolved

United Nations University (UNU):  established - 3 December 1973

aim - to conduct research in development, welfare, and human survival
and to train scholars

members - (24 members of UNU Council and the Rector are appointed by
the Secretary General of the United Nations and the Director General of
UNESCO)

Universal Postal Union (UPU):  established - 9 October 1874, affiliated
with the UN 15 November 1947; effective - 1 July 1948

aim - to promote international postal cooperation; a UN specialized
agency

members - (189) Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Antigua and
Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, The
Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belgium, Belize,
Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil,
Brunei, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burma, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon,
Canada, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, China,
Colombia, Comoros, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Republic of the
Congo, Costa Rica, Cote d'Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech
Republic, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador,
Egypt, El Salvador, Equatorial Guinea, Eritrea, Estonia, Ethiopia,
Fiji, Finland, France, Gabon, The Gambia, Georgia, Germany, Ghana,
Greece, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Holy
See, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Ireland,
Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kiribati,
North Korea, South Korea, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Laos, Latvia, Lebanon,
Lesotho, Liberia, Libya, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, The
Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia,
Maldives, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Moldova, Monaco,
Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Namibia, Nauru, Nepal, Netherlands,
Netherlands Antilles, NZ, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman,
Overseas Territories of the UK, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea,
Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Russia,
Rwanda, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the
Grenadines, Samoa, San Marino, Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia,
Senegal, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia,
Solomon Islands, Somalia, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan,
Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Switzerland, Syria, Tajikistan, Tanzania,
Thailand, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey,
Turkmenistan, Tuvalu, Uganda, Ukraine, UAE, UK, US, Uruguay,
Uzbekistan, Vanuatu, Venezuela, Vietnam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zambia,
Zimbabwe

Warsaw Pact (WP):  established 14 May 1955 to promote mutual defense;
members met 1 July 1991 to dissolve the alliance; member states at the
time of dissolution were Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland,
Romania, and the USSR; earlier members included GDR and Albania

West African Development Bank (WADB):  note - also known as Banque
Ouest-Africaine de Developpement (BOAD); is a financial institution of
WAEMU

established - 14 November 1973

aim - to promote regional economic development and integration

regional members - (8) Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'Ivoire, Guinea-
Bissau, Mali, Niger, Senegal, Togo

international/nonregional members - (5) African Development Bank,
Belgium, European Investment Bank, France, Germany

West African Economic and Monetary Union (WAEMU):  note - also known as
Union Economique et Monetaire Ouest Africaine (UEMOA)

established - 1 August 1994

aim - to increase competitiveness of members' economic markets; to
create a common market

members - (8) Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'Ivoire, Guinea-Bissau, Mali,
Niger, Senegal, Togo

Western European Union (WEU):  established - 23 October 1954; effective
- 6 May 1955

aim - to provide mutual defense and to move toward political
unification

members - (10) Belgium, France, Germany, Greece, Italy, Luxembourg,
Netherlands, Portugal, Spain, UK

associate members - (6) Czech Republic, Hungary, Iceland, Norway,
Poland, Turkey

associate partners - (7) Bulgaria, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Romania,
Slovakia, Slovenia

observers - (5) Austria, Denmark, Finland, Ireland, Sweden

World Bank Group:  includes International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development (IBRD), International Development Association (IDA), and
International Finance Corporation (IFC)

World Confederation of Labor (WCL):  established - 19 June 1920 as the
International Federation of Christian Trade Unions (IFCTU), renamed 4
October 1968

aim - to promote the trade union movement

members - (101 national organizations) Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina,
Aruba, Austria, Bangladesh, Belgium, Belize, Benin, Bolivia, Bonaire
Island, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Canada, Central
African Republic, Chad, Chile, Colombia, Democratic Republic of the
Congo, Republic of the Congo, Costa Rica, Cote d'Ivoire, Cuba, Cyprus,
Czech Republic, Dominica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador,
France, French Guiana, Gabon, The Gambia, Ghana, Guadeloupe, Guatemala,
Guinea, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Hong Kong, Hungary, India, Indonesia,
Iran, Italy, Japan, Kazakhstan, South Korea, Liberia, Liechtenstein,
Lithuania, Luxembourg, The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia,
Madagascar, Malaysia, Malta, Martinique, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico,
Montserrat, Morocco, Namibia, Netherlands, Netherlands Antilles,
Nicaragua, Niger, Pakistan, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines,
Poland, Portugal, Puerto Rico, Romania, Rwanda, Saint Lucia, Saint
Vincent and the Grenadines, Sao Tome and Principe, Senegal, Sierra
Leone, Singapore, Slovakia, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka,
Switzerland, Taiwan, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Ukraine, US,
Uruguay, Venezuela, Vietnam, Windward Islands, Zambia, Zimbabwe

World Federation of Trade Unions (WFTU):  established - 3 October 1945

aim - to promote the trade union movement

members - (125 and the Palestine Liberation Organization) Afghanistan,
Albania, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia, Australia,
Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Benin,
Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Cambodia, Cameroon,
Canada, Chile, Colombia, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Republic of
the Congo, Costa Rica, Cote d'Ivoire, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech Republic,
Djibouti, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Eritrea,
Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France, French Guiana, The Gambia, Ghana,
Greece, Guadeloupe, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti,
Honduras, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Jamaica, Japan,
Jordan, Kazakhstan, North Korea, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Laos, Lebanon,
Lesotho, Liberia, Libya, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Mali,
Martinique, Mauritius, Mexico, Mozambique, Nepal, New Caledonia, NZ,
Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Peru,
Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Puerto Rico, Reunion, Romania, Russia,
Saint Lucia, Saint Pierre and Miquelon, Saint Vincent and the
Grenadines, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Slovakia, Solomon
Islands, Somalia, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Sweden, Syria,
Tajikistan, Tanzania, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia,
Turkey, Turkmenistan, Uganda, Ukraine, Uruguay, Uzbekistan, Vanuatu,
Venezuela, Vietnam, Yemen, Zimbabwe, Palestine Liberation Organization

World Food Program (WFP):  established - 24 November 1961

aim - to provide food aid in support of economic development or
disaster relief; an ECOSOC organization

members - (36) selected on a rotating basis from all regions

World Health Organization (WHO):  established - 22 July 1946; effective
- 7 April 1948

aim - to deal with health matters worldwide; a UN specialized agency

members - (191) Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Andorra, Angola, Antigua
and Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, The
Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belgium, Belize,
Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil,
Brunei, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burma, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon,
Canada, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, China,
Colombia, Comoros, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Republic of the
Congo, Cook Islands, Costa Rica, Cote d'Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus,
Czech Republic, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominica, Dominican Republic,
Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Equatorial Guinea, Eritrea, Estonia,
Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France, Gabon, The Gambia, Georgia, Germany,
Ghana, Greece, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana,
Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq,
Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya,
Kiribati, North Korea, South Korea, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Laos, Latvia,
Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libya, Lithuania, Luxembourg, The Former
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives,
Mali, Malta, Marshall Islands, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Federated
States of Micronesia, Moldova, Monaco, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique,
Namibia, Nauru, Nepal, Netherlands, NZ, Nicaragua, Niue, Niger,
Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Palau, Panama, Papua New Guinea,
Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Russia,
Rwanda, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the
Grenadines, Samoa, San Marino, Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia,
Senegal, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia,
Solomon Islands, Somalia, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan,
Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Switzerland, Syria, Tajikistan, Tanzania,
Thailand, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey,
Turkmenistan, Tuvalu, Uganda, Ukraine, UAE, UK, US, Uruguay,
Uzbekistan, Vanuatu, Venezuela, Vietnam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zambia,
Zimbabwe

associate members - (2) Puerto Rico, Tokelau

observers - (2) Holy See, Liechtenstein

World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO):  established - 14 July
1967; effective - 26 April 1970

aim - to furnish protection for literary, artistic, and scientific
works; a UN specialized agency

members - (177) Albania, Algeria, Andorra, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda,
Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, The Bahamas,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belgium, Belize, Benin, Bhutan,
Bolivia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei, Bulgaria,
Burkina Faso, Burma, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada, Cape Verde,
Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Democratic
Republic of the Congo, Republic of the Congo, Costa Rica, Cote
d'Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Dominica,
Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Equatorial Guinea,
Eritrea, Estonia, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France, Gabon, The Gambia,
Georgia, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-
Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Holy See, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India,
Indonesia, Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan,
Kazakhstan, Kenya, North Korea, South Korea, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Laos,
Latvia, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libya, Liechtenstein, Lithuania,
Luxembourg, The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Madagascar,
Malawi, Malaysia, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Moldova,
Monaco, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Namibia, Nepal, Netherlands, NZ,
Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New
Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania,
Russia, Rwanda, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and
the Grenadines, Samoa, San Marino, Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia,
Senegal, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia,
Somalia, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland,
Sweden, Switzerland, Tajikistan, Tanzania, Thailand, Togo, Tonga,
Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Turkmenistan, Uganda, Ukraine,
UAE, UK, US, Uruguay, Uzbekistan, Venezuela, Vietnam, Yemen,
Yugoslavia, Zambia, Zimbabwe

World Meteorological Organization (WMO):  established - 11 October
1947; effective - 4 April 1951

aim - to sponsor meteorological cooperation; a UN specialized agency

members - (185) Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Antigua and
Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, The
Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belgium, Belize,
Benin, Bolivia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil, British
Caribbean Territories, Brunei, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burma, Burundi,
Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad,
Chile, China, Colombia, Comoros, Democratic Republic of the Congo,
Republic of the Congo, Cook Islands, Costa Rica, Cote d'Ivoire,
Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominica,
Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Eritrea, Estonia,
Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France, French Polynesia, Gabon, The Gambia,
Georgia, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau,
Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Hong Kong, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia,
Iran, Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan,
Kenya, North Korea, South Korea, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Laos, Latvia,
Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libya, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Macau, The
Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia,
Maldives, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Federated States
of Micronesia, Moldova, Monaco, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Namibia,
Nepal, Netherlands, Netherlands Antilles, New Caledonia, NZ, Nicaragua,
Niger, Nigeria, Niue, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea,
Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Russia,
Rwanda, Saint Lucia, Samoa, Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia,
Senegal, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia,
Solomon Islands, Somalia, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan,
Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Switzerland, Syria, Tajikistan, Tanzania,
Thailand, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey,
Turkmenistan, Uganda, Ukraine, UAE, UK, US, Uruguay, Uzbekistan,
Vanuatu, Venezuela, Vietnam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zambia, Zimbabwe

World Tourism Organization (WToO):  established - 2 January 1975

aim - to promote tourism as a means of contributing to economic
development, international understanding, and peace

members - (135) Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Andorra, Angola,
Argentina, Armenia, Austria, Bangladesh, Benin, Bolivia, Bosnia and
Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burma, Burundi,
Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile,
China, Colombia, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Republic of the
Congo, Costa Rica, Cote d'Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech
Republic, Djibouti, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador,
Equatorial Guinea, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France, Gabon, The
Gambia, Georgia, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-
Bissau, Haiti, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Israel, Italy,
Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, North Korea, South Korea,
Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Laos, Lebanon, Lesotho, Libya, The Former Yugoslav
Republic of Macedonia, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali,
Malta, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Moldova, Monaco, Mongolia,
Morocco, Mozambique, Namibia, Nepal, Netherlands, Nicaragua, Niger,
Nigeria, Pakistan, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland,
Portugal, Romania, Russia, Rwanda, San Marino, Sao Tome and Principe,
Senegal, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Slovakia, Slovenia, South Africa,
Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Swaziland, Switzerland, Syria, Tanzania,
Thailand, Togo, Tunisia, Turkey, Turkmenistan, Uganda, Ukraine,
Uruguay, Uzbekistan, Venezuela, Vietnam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe

associate members - (6) Aruba, Flanders, Hong Kong, Macau, Madeira
Islands, Netherlands Antilles

observers - (2) Holy See, Palestine Liberation Organization

World Trade Organization (WTrO):  note - succeeded General Agreement on
Tariff and Trade (GATT)

established - 15 April 1994; effective - 1 January 1995

aim - to provide a means to resolve trade conflicts between members and
to carry on negotiations with the goal of further lowering and/or
eliminating tariffs and other trade barriers

members - (140) Albania, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina,
Australia, Austria, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belgium, Belize,
Benin, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso,
Burma, Burundi, Cameroon, Canada, Central African Republic, Chad,
Chile, Colombia, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Republic of the
Congo, Costa Rica, Cote d'Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech
Republic, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador,
Egypt, El Salvador, Estonia, EU, Fiji, Finland, France, Gabon, The
Gambia, Georgia, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea,
Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Hong Kong, Hungary, Iceland,
India, Indonesia, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan,
Kenya, South Korea, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Latvia, Lesotho, Liechtenstein,
Luxembourg, Macau, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta,
Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Namibia,
Netherlands, NZ, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan,
Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland,
Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia,
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore,
Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka,
Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Switzerland, Tanzania, Thailand, Togo,
Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, UAE, UK, US, Uruguay,
Venezuela, Zambia, Zimbabwe

observers - (34) Algeria, Andorra, Armenia, Azerbaijan, The Bahamas,
Belarus, Bhutan, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Cambodia, Cape Verde, China,
Ethiopia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Holy See,
Kazakhstan, Laos, Lebanon, Lithuania, Moldova, Nepal, Russia, Samoa,
Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Seychelles, Sudan, Taiwan, Tonga,
Ukraine, Uzbekistan, Vanuatu, Vietnam, Yemen, Yugoslavia; note - must
start accession negotiations within five years of becoming observers

Zangger Committee (ZC):  established - early 1970s

aim - to establish guidelines for the export control provisions of the
Nonproliferation of Nuclear Weapons Treaty (NPT)

members - (33) Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria,
Canada, China, Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany,
Greece, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, Japan, South Korea, Luxembourg,
Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russia, Slovakia, South
Africa, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Ukraine, UK, US



=====================================================================


Appendix C: Selected International Environmental Agreements


Air Pollution

see Convention on Long-Range Transboundary Air Pollution


Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides

see Protocol to the 1979 Convention on Long-Range Transboundary Air
Pollution Concerning the Control of Emissions of Nitrogen Oxides or
Their Transboundary Fluxes


Air Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants

see Protocol to the 1979 Convention on Long-Range Transboundary Air
Pollution on Persistent Organic Pollutants


Air Pollution-Sulphur 85

see Protocol to the 1979 Convention on Long-Range Transboundary Air
Pollution on the Reduction of Sulphur Emissions or Their Transboundary
Fluxes by at least 30%


Air Pollution-Sulphur 94

see Protocol to the 1979 Convention on Long-Range Transboundary Air
Pollution on Further Reduction of Sulphur Emissions


Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds

see Protocol to the 1979 Convention on Long-Range Transboundary Air
Pollution Concerning the Control of Emissions of Volatile Organic
Compounds or Their Transboundary Fluxes


Antarctic-Environmental Protocol

see Protocol on Environmental Protection to the Antarctic Treaty


Antarctic Treaty

opened for signature - 1 December 1959


entered into force - 23 June 1961


objective - to ensure that Antarctica is used for peaceful purposes
only (such as international cooperation in scientific research); to
defer the question of territorial claims asserted by some nations and
not recognized by others; to provide an international forum for
management of the region; applies to land and ice shelves south of 60
degrees South latitude


parties - (44) Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Brazil,
Bulgaria, Canada, Chile, China, Colombia, Cuba, Czech Republic,
Denmark, Ecuador, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Guatemala, Hungary,
India, Italy, Japan, North Korea, South Korea, Netherlands, NZ, Norway,
Papua New Guinea, Peru, Poland, Romania, Russia, Slovakia, South
Africa, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, Ukraine, UK, US, Uruguay,
Venezuela


Basel Convention on the Control of Transboundary Movements of Hazardous
Wastes and Their Disposal

note - abbreviated as Hazardous Wastes


opened for signature - 22 March 1989


entered into force - 5 May 1992


objective - to reduce transboundary movements of wastes subject to the
Convention to a minimum consistent with the environmentally sound and
efficient management of such wastes; to minimize the amount and
toxicity of wastes generated and ensure their environmentally sound
management as closely as possible to the source of generation; and to
assist LDCs in environmentally sound management of the hazardous and
other wastes they generate


parties - (143) Albania, Algeria, Andorra, Antigua and Barbuda,
Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, The Bahamas, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belgium, Belize, Benin, Bolivia,
Botswana, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cameroon, Canada,
Cape Verde, Chile, China, Colombia, Comoros, Democratic Republic of the
Congo, Costa Rica, Cote d'Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech
Republic, Denmark, Dominica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El
Salvador, Estonia, Ethiopia, EU, Finland, France, The Gambia, Georgia,
Germany, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India,
Indonesia, Iran, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Jordan, Kenya,
Kiribati, South Korea, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Latvia, Lebanon, Lesotho,
Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, The Former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta,
Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Federated States of Micronesia, Moldova,
Monaco, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Namibia, Nepal, Netherlands, NZ,
Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New
Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania,
Russia, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the
Grenadines, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Seychelles, Singapore, Slovakia,
Slovenia, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sweden, Switzerland, Syria,
Tanzania, Thailand, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Turkmenistan,
Uganda, Ukraine, UAE, UK, Uruguay, Uzbekistan, Venezuela, Vietnam,
Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zambia


countries that have signed, but not yet ratified - (3) Afghanistan,
Haiti, US


Biodiversity

see Convention on Biological Diversity


Convention for the Conservation of Antarctic Seals

note - abbreviated as Antarctic Seals


opened for signature - NA


entered into force - NA


objective - NA


parties - (16) Argentina, Australia, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Chile,
France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Norway, Poland, Russia, South Africa,
UK, US


countries that have signed, but not yet ratified - (1) NZ


Convention on Biological Diversity

note - abbreviated as Biodiversity


opened for signature - 5 June 1992


entered into force - 29 December 1993


objective - to develop national strategies for the conservation and
sustainable use of biological diversity


parties - (180) Albania, Algeria, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda,
Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, The Bahamas,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belgium, Belize, Benin, Bhutan,
Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burma, Burundi,
Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad,
Chile, China, Colombia, Comoros, Democratic Republic of the Congo,
Republic of the Congo, Cook Islands, Costa Rica, Cote d'Ivoire,
Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominica,
Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Equatorial Guinea,
Eritrea, Estonia, Ethiopia, EU, Fiji, Finland, France, Gabon, The
Gambia, Georgia, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea,
Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India,
Indonesia, Iran, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan,
Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kiribati, North Korea, South Korea, Kyrgyzstan,
Laos, Latvia, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania,
Luxembourg, The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Madagascar,
Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Marshall Islands, Mauritania,
Mauritius, Mexico, Federated States of Micronesia, Moldova, Monaco,
Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Namibia, Nauru, Nepal, Netherlands, NZ,
Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Niue, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Palau, Panama,
Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar,
Romania, Russia, Rwanda, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint
Vincent and the Grenadines, Samoa, San Marino, Sao Tome and Principe,
Senegal, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia,
Solomon Islands, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname,
Swaziland, Sweden, Switzerland, Syria, Tajikistan, Tanzania, Togo,
Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Turkmenistan, Uganda,
Ukraine, UAE, UK, Uruguay, Uzbekistan, Vanuatu, Venezuela, Vietnam,
Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe


countries that have signed, but not yet ratified - (7) Afghanistan,
Kuwait, Libya, Thailand, Tuvalu, US, Yugoslavia


Climate Change

see United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change


Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol

see Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on
Climate Change


Convention on Fishing and Conservation of Living Resources of the High
Seas

note - abbreviated as Marine Life Conservation


opened for signature - 29 April 1958


entered into force - 20 March 1966


objective - to solve through international cooperation the problems
involved in the conservation of living resources of the high seas,
considering that because of the development of modern technology some
of these resources are in danger of being overexploited


parties - (38) Australia, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Burkina
Faso, Cambodia, Colombia, Denmark, Dominican Republic, Fiji, Finland,
France, Haiti, Jamaica, Kenya, Lesotho, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia,
Mauritius, Mexico, Netherlands, Nigeria, Portugal, Senegal, Sierra
Leone, Solomon Islands, South Africa, Spain, Switzerland, Thailand,
Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Uganda, UK, US, Uruguay, Venezuela,
Yugoslavia


countries that have signed, but not yet ratified - (21) Afghanistan,
Argentina, Bolivia, Canada, China, Costa Rica, Cuba, Ghana, Iceland,
Indonesia, Iran, Ireland, Israel, Lebanon, Liberia, Nepal, NZ,
Pakistan, Panama, Sri Lanka, Tunisia


Convention on Long-Range Transboundary Air Pollution

note - abbreviated as Air Pollution


opened for signature - 13 November 1979


entered into force - 16 March 1983


objective - to protect the human environment against air pollution and
to gradually reduce and prevent air pollution, including long-range
transboundary air pollution


parties - (48) Armenia, Austria, Belarus, Belgium, Bosnia and
Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Canada, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic,
Denmark, Estonia, EU, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece,
Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Latvia,
Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, The Former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia, Malta, Moldova, Monaco, Netherlands, Norway, Poland,
Portugal, Romania, Russia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden,
Switzerland, Turkey, Ukraine, UK, US, Yugoslavia


countries that have signed, but not yet ratified - (2) Holy See, San
Marino


Convention on the Conservation of Antarctic Marine Living Resources

note - abbreviated as Antarctic-Marine Living Resources


opened for signature - NA


entered into force - NA


objective - NA


parties - (30) Argentina, Australia, Belgium, Brazil, Bulgaria, Canada,
Chile, EU, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, India, Italy, Japan, South
Korea, Namibia, Netherlands, NZ, Norway, Peru, Poland, Russia, South
Africa, Spain, Sweden, Ukraine, UK, US, Uruguay


Convention on the International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild
Flora and Fauna (CITES)

note - abbreviated as Endangered Species


opened for signature - 3 March 1973


entered into force - 1 July 1975


objective - to protect certain endangered species from overexploitation
by means of a system of import/export permits


parties - (152) Afghanistan, Algeria, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina,
Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, The Bahamas, Bangladesh, Barbados,
Belarus, Belgium, Belize, Benin, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei,
Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burma, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada,
Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Comoros,
Democratic Republic of the Congo, Republic of the Congo, Costa Rica,
Cote d'Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark,
Djibouti, Dominica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador,
Equatorial Guinea, Eritrea, Estonia, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France,
Gabon, The Gambia, Georgia, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Grenada, Guatemala,
Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India,
Indonesia, Iran, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan,
Kenya, South Korea, Latvia, Liberia, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, The
Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia,
Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Monaco, Mongolia, Morocco,
Mozambique, Namibia, Nepal, Netherlands, NZ, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria,
Norway, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru,
Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russia, Rwanda, Saint Kitts and
Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Saudi Arabia,
Senegal, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia,
Somalia, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland,
Sweden, Switzerland, Tanzania, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago,
Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukraine, UAE, UK, US, Uruguay, Uzbekistan,
Vanuatu, Venezuela, Vietnam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe


countries that have signed, but not yet ratified - (3) Ireland, Kuwait,
Lesotho


Convention on the Prevention of Marine Pollution by Dumping Wastes and
Other Matter (London Convention)

note - abbreviated as Marine Dumping


opened for signature - 29 December 1972


entered into force - 30 August 1975


objective - to control pollution of the sea by dumping and to encourage
regional agreements supplementary to the Convention


parties - (78) Afghanistan, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Australia,
Azerbaijan, Barbados, Belarus, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Cape Verde,
Chile, China, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Costa Rica, Cote
d'Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Denmark, Dominican Republic, Egypt,
Finland, France, Gabon, Germany, Greece, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras,
Hong Kong (associate member), Hungary, Iceland, Iran, Ireland, Italy,
Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kiribati, South Korea, Libya,
Luxembourg, Malta, Mexico, Monaco, Morocco, Nauru, Netherlands, NZ,
Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Philippines,
Poland, Portugal, Russia, Saint Lucia, Seychelles, Slovenia, Solomon
Islands, South Africa, Spain, Suriname, Sweden, Switzerland, Tonga,
Tunisia, Ukraine, UAE, UK, US, Vanuatu, Yugoslavia


Convention on the Prohibition of Military or Any Other Hostile Use of
Environmental Modification Techniques

note - abbreviated as Environmental Modification


opened for signature - 10 December 1976


entered into force - 5 October 1978


objective - to prohibit the military or other hostile use of
environmental modification techniques in order to further world peace
and trust among nations


parties - (68) Afghanistan, Algeria, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina,
Australia, Austria, Bangladesh, Belarus, Belgium, Benin, Brazil,
Bulgaria, Canada, Cape Verde, Chile, Costa Rica, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech
Republic, Denmark, Dominica, Egypt, Finland, Germany, Ghana, Greece,
Guatemala, Hungary, Iceland, India, Ireland, Italy, Japan, North Korea,
South Korea, Kuwait, Laos, Malawi, Mauritius, Mongolia, Netherlands,
NZ, Niger, Norway, Pakistan, Papua New Guinea, Poland, Romania, Russia,
Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Sao Tome and Principe,
Sierra Leone, Slovakia, Solomon Islands, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sweden,
Switzerland, Tajikistan, Tunisia, Ukraine, UK, US, Uruguay, Uzbekistan,
Vietnam, Yemen


countries that have signed, but not yet ratified - (15) Bolivia,
Democratic Republic of the Congo, Ethiopia, Holy See, Iran, Iraq,
Lebanon, Liberia, Luxembourg, Morocco, Nicaragua, Portugal, Syria,
Turkey, Uganda


Convention on Wetlands of International Importance Especially as
Waterfowl Habitat (Ramsar)

note - abbreviated as Wetlands


opened for signature - 2 February 1971


entered into force - 21 December 1975


objective - to stem the progressive encroachment on and loss of
wetlands now and in the future, recognizing the fundamental ecological
functions of wetlands and their economic, cultural, scientific, and
recreational value


parties - (123) Albania, Algeria, Argentina, Armenia, Australia,
Austria, The Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Belarus, Belgium, Belize,
Benin, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Cambodia,
Canada, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Comoros, Democratic Republic of
the Congo, Republic of the Congo, Costa Rica, Cote d'Ivoire, Croatia,
Czech Republic, Denmark, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Estonia, Finland,
France, Gabon, The Gambia, Georgia, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala,
Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia,
Iran, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, South
Korea, Latvia, Lebanon, Libya, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg,
The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Madagascar, Malawi,
Malaysia, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mexico, Moldova, Monaco, Mongolia,
Morocco, Namibia, Nepal, Netherlands, NZ, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria,
Norway, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru,
Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russia, Senegal, Sierra Leone,
Slovakia, Slovenia, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Suriname, Sweden,
Switzerland, Syria, Tanzania, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago,
Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukraine, UK, US, Uruguay, Venezuela, Vietnam,
Yugoslavia, Zambia


Desertification

see United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification in those
Countries Experiencing Serious Drought and/or Desertification,
Particularly in Africa


Endangered Species

see Convention on the International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild
Flora and Fauna (CITES)


Environmental Modification

see Convention on the Prohibition of Military or Any Other Hostile Use
of Environmental Modification Techniques


Hazardous Wastes

see Basel Convention on the Control of Transboundary Movements of
Hazardous Wastes and Their Disposal


International Convention for the Regulation of Whaling

note - abbreviated as Whaling


opened for signature - 2 December 1946


entered into force - 10 November 1948


objective - to protect all species of whales from overhunting; to
establish a system of international regulation for the whale fisheries
to ensure proper conservation and development of whale stocks; and to
safeguard for future generations the great natural resources
represented by whale stocks


parties - (41) Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Australia, Austria,
Brazil, Chile, China, Costa Rica, Denmark, Dominica, Finland, France,
Germany, Grenada, Guinea, India, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Kenya, South
Korea, Mexico, Monaco, Morocco, Netherlands, NZ, Norway, Oman, Peru,
Russia, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the
Grenadines, Senegal, Solomon Islands, South Africa, Spain, Sweden,
Switzerland, UK, US


International Tropical Timber Agreement, 1983

note - abbreviated as Tropical Timber 83


opened for signature - 18 November 1983


entered into force - 1 April 1985; this agreement expired when the
International Tropical Timber Agreement, 1994, went into force


objective - to provide an effective framework for cooperation between
tropical timber producers and consumers and to encourage the
development of national policies aimed at sustainable utilization and
conservation of tropical forests and their genetic resources


parties - (54) Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bolivia, Brazil, Burma,
Cameroon, Canada, China, Colombia, Democratic Republic of the Congo,
Republic of the Congo, Cote d'Ivoire, Denmark, Ecuador, Egypt, EU,
Fiji, Finland, France, Gabon, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Guyana, Honduras,
India, Indonesia, Ireland, Italy, Japan, South Korea, Liberia,
Luxembourg, Malaysia, Nepal, Netherlands, NZ, Norway, Panama, Papua New
Guinea, Peru, Philippines, Portugal, Russia, Spain, Sweden,
Switzerland, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, UK, US, Venezuela


International Tropical Timber Agreement, 1994

note - abbreviated as Tropical Timber 94


opened for signature - 26 January 1994


entered into force - 1 January 1997


objective - to ensure that by the year 2000 exports of tropical timber
originate from sustainably managed sources; to establish a fund to
assist tropical timber producers in obtaining the resources necessary
to reach this objective


parties - (58) Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bolivia, Brazil, Burma,
Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada, Central African Republic, China, Colombia,
Democratic Republic of the Congo, Republic of the Congo, Cote d'Ivoire,
Denmark, Ecuador, Egypt, EU, Fiji, Finland, France, Gabon, Germany,
Ghana, Greece, Guyana, Honduras, India, Indonesia, Ireland, Italy,
Japan, South Korea, Liberia, Luxembourg, Malaysia, Nepal, Netherlands,
NZ, Norway, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Peru, Philippines, Portugal,
Spain, Suriname, Sweden, Switzerland, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and
Tobago, UK, US, Uruguay, Vanuatu, Venezuela


countries that have signed, but not yet ratified - (1) Ireland


Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate
Change

note - abbreviated as Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol


opened for signature - 16 March 1998, but not yet in force


objective - to further reduce greenhouse gas emissions by enhancing the
national programs of developed countries aimed at this goal and by
establishing percentage reduction targets for the developed countries


parties - (32) Antigua and Barbuda, Azerbaijan, The Bahamas, Barbados,
Bolivia, Cyprus, Ecuador, El Salvador, Equatorial Guinea, Fiji,
Georgia, Guatemala, Guinea, Honduras, Jamaica, Kiribati, Lesotho,
Maldives, Mexico, Federated States of Micronesia, Mongolia, Nicaragua,
Niue, Palau, Panama, Paraguay, Samoa, Trinidad and Tobago,
Turkmenistan, Tuvalu, Uruguay, Uzbekistan


countries that have signed, but not yet ratified - (64) Argentina,
Australia, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Bulgaria, Canada, Chile, China,
Cook Islands, Costa Rica, Croatia, Cuba, Czech Republic, Denmark,
Egypt, Estonia, EU, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Indonesia,
Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Kazakhstan, South Korea, Latvia,
Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malaysia, Mali, Malta, Marshall
Islands, Monaco, Netherlands, NZ, Niger, Norway, Papua New Guinea,
Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russia, Saint Lucia,
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Seychelles, Slovakia, Slovenia,
Solomon Islands, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Thailand, Ukraine, UK, US,
Vietnam, Zambia


Law of the Sea

see United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (LOS)


Marine Dumping

see Convention on the Prevention of Marine Pollution by Dumping Wastes
and Other Matter (London Convention)


Marine Life Conservation

see Convention on Fishing and Conservation of Living Resources of the
High Seas


Montreal Protocol on Substances That Deplete the Ozone Layer

note - abbreviated as Ozone Layer Protection


opened for signature - 16 September 1987


entered into force - 1 January 1989


objective - to protect the ozone layer by controlling emissions of
substances that deplete it


parties - (175) Albania, Algeria, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda,
Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, The Bahamas,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belgium, Belize, Benin,
Bolivia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei, Bulgaria,
Burkina Faso, Burma, Burundi, Cameroon, Canada, Central African
Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Comoros, Democratic Republic of
the Congo, Republic of the Congo, Costa Rica, Cote d'Ivoire, Croatia,
Cuba, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominica, Dominican
Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Estonia, Ethiopia, EU, Fiji,
Finland, France, Gabon, The Gambia, Georgia, Germany, Ghana, Greece,
Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland,
India, Indonesia, Iran, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan,
Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kiribati, North Korea, South Korea, Kuwait,
Kyrgyzstan, Laos, Latvia, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libya,
Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, The Former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta,
Marshall Islands, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Federated States of
Micronesia, Moldova, Monaco, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Namibia,
Nepal, Netherlands, NZ, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman,
Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines,
Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Russia, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint
Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Senegal,
Seychelles, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands, South
Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden,
Switzerland, Syria, Tajikistan, Tanzania, Thailand, Togo, Tonga,
Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Turkmenistan, Tuvalu, Uganda,
Ukraine, UAE, UK, US, Uruguay, Uzbekistan, Vanuatu, Venezuela, Vietnam,
Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zambia, Zimbabwe


Nuclear Test Ban

see Treaty Banning Nuclear Weapons Tests in the Atmosphere, in Outer
Space, and Under Water


Ozone Layer Protection

see Montreal Protocol on Substances That Deplete the Ozone Layer


Protocol of 1978 Relating to the International Convention for the
Prevention of Pollution From Ships, 1973 (MARPOL)

note - abbreviated as Ship Pollution


opened for signature - 17 February 1978


entered into force - 2 October 1983


objective - to preserve the marine environment through the complete
elimination of pollution by oil and other harmful substances and the
minimization of accidental discharge of such substances


parties - (115) Algeria, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Australia,
Austria, The Bahamas, Barbados, Belarus, Belgium, Belize, Benin,
Bolivia, Brazil, Brunei, Bulgaria, Burma, Cambodia, Canada, Chile,
China, Colombia, Comoros, Cote d'Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech
Republic, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador,
Egypt, Equatorial Guinea, Estonia, Finland, France, Gabon, The Gambia,
Georgia, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Guyana, Hong Kong
(associate member), Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Ireland,
Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, North Korea, South
Korea, Latvia, Lebanon, Liberia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malaysia,
Malta, Marshall Islands, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Monaco,
Morocco, Netherlands, NZ, Nicaragua, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama,
Papua New Guinea, Peru, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russia, Saint Kitts
and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Sao Tome and
Principe, Senegal, Seychelles, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, South
Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Suriname, Sweden, Switzerland, Syria, Togo,
Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Tuvalu, Ukraine, UK, US,
Uruguay, Vanuatu, Venezuela, Vietnam, Yugoslavia


Protocol on Environmental Protection to the Antarctic Treaty

note - abbreviated as Antarctic-Environmental Protocol


opened for signature - 4 October 1991


entered into force - 14 January 1998


objective - to provide for comprehensive protection of the Antarctic
environment and dependent and associated ecosystems; applies to the
area covered by the Antarctic Treaty


parties - (27) Argentina, Australia, Belgium, Brazil, Bulgaria, Chile,
China, Ecuador, Finland, France, Germany, India, Italy, Japan, South
Korea, Netherlands, NZ, Norway, Peru, Poland, Russia, South Africa,
Spain, Sweden, UK, US, Uruguay


countries that have signed, but not yet ratified - (16) Austria,
Canada, Colombia, Cuba, Czech Republic, Denmark, Greece, Guatemala,
Hungary, North Korea, Papua New Guinea, Romania, Slovakia, Switzerland,
Turkey, Ukraine


Protocol to the 1979 Convention on Long-Range Transboundary Air
Pollution Concerning the Control of Emissions of Nitrogen Oxides or
Their Transboundary Fluxes

note - abbreviated as Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides


opened for signature - 31 October 1988


entered into force - 14 February 1991


objective - to provide for the control or reduction of nitrogen oxides
and their transboundary fluxes


parties - (28) Austria, Belarus, Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada, Czech
Republic, Denmark, Estonia, EU, Finland, France, Germany, Greece,
Hungary, Ireland, Italy, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Netherlands,
Norway, Russia, Slovakia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Ukraine, UK, US


countries that have signed, but not yet ratified - (1) Poland


Protocol to the 1979 Convention on Long-Range Transboundary Air
Pollution Concerning the Control of Emissions of Volatile Organic
Compounds or Their Transboundary Fluxes

note - abbreviated as Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds


opened for signature - 18 November 1991


entered into force - 29 September 1997


objective - to provide for the control and reduction of emissions of
volatile organic compounds in order to reduce their transboundary
fluxes so as to protect human health and the environment from adverse
effects


parties - (20) Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Czech Republic, Denmark,
Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Hungary, Italy, Liechtenstein,
Luxembourg, Netherlands, Norway, Slovakia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland,
UK


countries that have signed, but not yet ratified - (7) Canada, EU,
Greece, Norway, Portugal, Ukraine, US


Protocol to the 1979 Convention on Long-Range Transboundary Air
Pollution on Further Reduction of Sulphur Emissions

note - abbreviated as Air Pollution-Sulphur 94


opened for signature - 14 June 1994


entered into force - 5 August 1998


objective - to provide for a further reduction in sulfur emissions or
transboundary fluxes


parties - (23) Austria, Belgium, Canada, Croatia, Czech Republic,
Denmark, EU, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy,
Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Norway, Slovakia, Slovenia,
Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, UK


countries that have signed, but not yet ratified - (5) Bulgaria,
Hungary, Poland, Russia, Ukraine


Protocol to the 1979 Convention on Long-Range Transboundary Air
Pollution on Persistent Organic Pollutants

note - abbreviated as Air Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants


opened for signature - 24 June 1998, but not yet in force


objective - to provide for the control and reduction of emissions of
persistent organic pollutants in order to reduce their transboundary
fluxes so as to protect human health and the environment from adverse
effects


parties - (6) Canada, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Norway, Sweden,
Switzerland


countries that have signed, but not yet ratified - (30) Armenia,
Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark,
EU, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy,
Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Moldova, Poland, Portugal, Romania,
Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Ukraine, UK, US


Protocol to the 1979 Convention on Long-Range Transboundary Air
Pollution on the Reduction of Sulphur Emissions or Their Transboundary
Fluxes by at Least 30%

note - abbreviated as Air Pollution-Sulphur 85


opened for signature - 8 July 1985


entered into force - 2 September 1987


objective - to provide for a 30% reduction in sulfur emissions or
transboundary fluxes by 1993


parties - (22) Austria, Belarus, Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada, Czech
Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Hungary, Italy,
Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Norway, Russia, Slovakia,
Sweden, Switzerland, Ukraine


Ship Pollution

see Protocol of 1978 Relating to the International Convention for the
Prevention of Pollution From Ships, 1973 (MARPOL)


Treaty Banning Nuclear Weapon Tests in the Atmosphere, in Outer Space,
and Under Water

note - abbreviated as Nuclear Test Ban


opened for signature - 5 August 1963


entered into force - 10 October 1963


objective - to obtain an agreement on general and complete disarmament
under strict international control in accordance with the objectives of
the United Nations; to put an end to the armaments race and eliminate
incentives for the production and testing of all kinds of weapons,
including nuclear weapons


parties - (113) Afghanistan, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia,
Australia, Austria, The Bahamas, Bangladesh, Belgium, Benin, Bhutan,
Bolivia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burma,
Canada, Central African Republic, Chad, China, Colombia, Democratic
Republic of the Congo, Costa Rica, Cote d'Ivoire, Croatia, Cyprus,
Czech Republic, Denmark, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El
Salvador, Fiji, Finland, Gabon, The Gambia, Germany, Ghana, Greece,
Guatemala, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq,
Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, South Korea,
Kuwait, Laos, Lebanon, Liberia, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malawi,
Malaysia, Malta, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Morocco, Nepal,
Netherlands, NZ, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Panama, Papua New
Guinea, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Romania, Russia, Rwanda, Samoa, San
Marino, Senegal, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Slovakia,
Slovenia, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland,
Sweden, Switzerland, Syria, Thailand, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago,
Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, UK, US, Venezuela, Yugoslavia, Zambia


countries that have signed, but not yet ratified - (17) Algeria,
Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cameroon, Chile, Ethiopia, Haiti, Libya, Mali,
Pakistan, Paraguay, Portugal, Somalia, Tanzania, Uruguay, Vietnam,
Yemen


Tropical Timber 83

see International Tropical Timber Agreement, 1983


Tropical Timber 94

see International Tropical Timber Agreement, 1994


United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (LOS)

note - abbreviated as Law of the Sea


opened for signature - 10 December 1982


entered into force - 16 November 1994


objective - to set up a comprehensive new legal regime for the sea and
oceans; to include rules concerning environmental standards as well as
enforcement provisions dealing with pollution of the marine environment


parties - (135) Algeria, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina,
Australia, Austria, The Bahamas, Bahrain, Barbados, Belgium, Belize,
Benin, Bolivia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei,
Bulgaria, Burma, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Chile, China, Comoros,
Democratic Republic of the Congo, Cook Islands, Costa Rica, Cote
d'Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Djibouti, Dominica,
Egypt, Equatorial Guinea, EU, Fiji, Finland, France, Gabon, The Gambia,
Georgia, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-
Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iraq,
Ireland, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, South Korea, Kuwait,
Laos, Lebanon, Luxembourg, The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia,
Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Marshall Islands, Mauritania,
Mauritius, Mexico, Federated States of Micronesia, Monaco, Mongolia,
Mozambique, Namibia, Nauru, Nepal, Netherlands, NZ, Nicaragua, Nigeria,
Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Palau, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay,
Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russia, Saint Kitts and Nevis,
Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Samoa, Sao Tome and
Principe, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Singapore,
Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands, Somalia, South Africa, Spain, Sri
Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Sweden, Tanzania, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and
Tobago, Tunisia, Uganda, Ukraine, UK, Uruguay, Vanuatu, Vietnam, Yemen,
Yugoslavia, Zambia, Zimbabwe


countries that have signed, but not yet ratified - (35) Afghanistan,
Bangladesh, Belarus, Bhutan, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cambodia, Canada,
Central African Republic, Chad, Colombia, Republic of the Congo,
Denmark, Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Ethiopia, Hungary, Iran,
North Korea, Lesotho, Liberia, Libya, Liechtenstein, Madagascar,
Malawi, Morocco, Niger, Niue, Qatar, Rwanda, Swaziland, Switzerland,
Thailand, Tuvalu, UAE


United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification in Those Countries
Experiencing Serious Drought and/or Desertification, Particularly in
Africa

note - abbreviated as Desertification


opened for signature - 14 October 1994


entered into force - 26 December 1996


objective - to combat desertification and mitigate the effects of
drought through national action programs that incorporate long-term
strategies supported by international cooperation and partnership
arrangements


parties - (172) Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Antigua and
Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, The
Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belgium, Belize, Benin,
Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Burkina Faso, Burma, Burundi, Cambodia,
Cameroon, Canada, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile,
China, Colombia, Comoros, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Republic of
the Congo, Cook Islands, Costa Rica, Cote d'Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba,
Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominica, Dominican
Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Equatorial Guinea, Eritrea,
Ethiopia, EU, Fiji, Finland, France, Gabon, The Gambia, Georgia,
Germany, Ghana, Greece, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau,
Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran,
Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya,
Kiribati, South Korea, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Laos, Lebanon, Lesotho,
Liberia, Libya, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malawi,
Malaysia, Mali, Malta, Marshall Islands, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico,
Federated States of Micronesia, Moldova, Monaco, Mongolia, Morocco,
Mozambique, Namibia, Nauru, Nepal, Netherlands, NZ, Nicaragua, Niger,
Nigeria, Niue, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Palau, Panama, Papua New Guinea,
Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Saint
Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Samoa,
San Marino, Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Seychelles,
Sierra Leone, Singapore, Solomon Islands, South Africa, Spain, Sri
Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Switzerland, Syria,
Tajikistan, Tanzania, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia,
Turkey, Turkmenistan, Tuvalu, Uganda, UAE, UK, US, Uruguay, Uzbekistan,
Vanuatu, Venezuela, Vietnam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe


United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change

note - abbreviated as Climate Change


opened for signature - 9 May 1992


entered into force - 21 March 1994


objective - to achieve stabilization of greenhouse gas concentrations
in the atmosphere at a low enough level to prevent dangerous
anthropogenic interference with the climate system


parties - (186) Albania, Algeria, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda,
Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, The Bahamas,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belgium, Belize, Benin, Bhutan,
Bolivia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burkina
Faso, Burma, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada, Cape Verde, Central
African Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Comoros, Democratic
Republic of the Congo, Republic of the Congo, Cook Islands, Costa Rica,
Cote d'Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark,
Djibouti, Dominica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador,
Equatorial Guinea, Eritrea, Estonia, Ethiopia, EU, Fiji, Finland,
France, Gabon, The Gambia, Georgia, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Grenada,
Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary,
Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica,
Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kiribati, North Korea, South Korea,
Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Laos, Latvia, Lebanon, Lesotho, Libya,
Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, The Former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta,
Marshall Islands, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Federated States of
Micronesia, Moldova, Monaco, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Namibia,
Nauru, Nepal, Netherlands, NZ, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Niue, Norway,
Oman, Pakistan, Palau, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru,
Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Russia, Rwanda, Saint
Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Samoa,
San Marino, Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Seychelles,
Sierra Leone, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands, South
Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden,
Switzerland, Syria, Tajikistan, Tanzania, Thailand, Togo, Tonga,
Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkmenistan, Tuvalu, Uganda, Ukraine,
UAE, UK, US, Uruguay, Uzbekistan, Vanuatu, Venezuela, Vietnam, Yemen,
Yugoslavia, Zambia, Zimbabwe


countries that have signed, but not yet ratified - (2) Afghanistan,
Liberia


Wetlands

see Convention on Wetlands of International Importance Especially As
Waterfowl Habitat (Ramsar)


Whaling

see International Convention for the Regulation of Whaling



=====================================================================


Appendix D: Cross-Reference List of Country Data Codes


FIPS 10-4: Countries, Dependencies, Areas of Special Sovereignty, and
Their Principal Administrative Divisions (FIPS PUB 10-4) is maintained
by the Office of the Geographer and Global Issues (Department of State)
and published by the National Institute of Standards and Technology
(Department of Commerce). FIPS 10-4 codes are intended for general use
throughout the US Government, especially in activities associated with
the mission of the Department of State and national defense programs.

ISO 3166:  Codes for the Representation of Names of Countries (ISO
3166) is prepared by the International Organization for
Standardization. ISO 3166 includes two- and three-character alphabetic
codes and three-digit numeric codes that may be needed for activities
involving exchange of data with international organizations that have
adopted that standard. Except for the numeric codes, ISO 3166 codes
have been adopted in the US as FIPS 104-1: American National Standard
Codes for the Representation of Names of Countries, Dependencies, and
Areas of Special Sovereignty for Information Interchange.

Internet:  The Internet country code is the two-letter digraph
maintained by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO)
in the ISO 3166 Alpha-2 list and used by the Internet Assigned Numbers
Authority (IANA) to establish country-coded top-level domains (ccTLDs).



Entity              FIPS 10-4 --- ISO 3166 --     Internet    Comment

Afghanistan         AF        AF    AFG   004     .af
Albania             AL        AL    ALB   008     .al
Algeria             AG        DZ    DZA   012     .dz
American Samoa      AQ        AS    ASM   016     .as
Andorra             AN        AD    AND   020     .ad
Angola              AO        AO    AGO   024     .ao
Anguilla            AV        AI    AIA   660     .ai
Antarctica          AY        AQ    ATA   010     .aq
  ISO defines as the territory south of 60 degrees south latitude

Antigua and Barbuda AC        AG    ATG   028     .ag
Argentina           AR        AR    ARG   032     .ar
Armenia             AM        AM    ARM   051     .am
Aruba               AA        AW    ABW   533     .aw
Ashmore and
Cartier Islands     AT        -     -     -       -
  ISO includes with Australia

Australia           AS        AU    AUS   036     .au
  ISO includes Ashmore and Cartier Islands, Coral Sea Islands

Austria             AU        AT    AUT   040     .at
Azerbaijan          AJ        AZ    AZE   031     .az
Bahamas, The        BF        BS    BHS   044     .bs
Bahrain             BA        BH    BHR   048     .bh
Baker Island        FQ        -     -     -       -
  ISO includes with the US Minor Outlying Islands

Bangladesh          BG        BD    BGD   050     .bd
Barbados            BB        BB    BRB   052     .bb
Bassas da India     BS        -     -     -       -
  ISO includes with the Miscellaneous(French) Indian Ocean Islands

Belarus             BO        BY    BLR   112     .by
Belgium             BE        BE    BEL   056     .be
Belize              BH        BZ    BLZ   084     .bz
Benin               BN        BJ    BEN   204     .bj
Bermuda             BD        BM    BMU   060     .bm
Bhutan              BT        BT    BTN   064     .bt
Bolivia             BL        BO    BOL   068     .bo
Bosnia and
  Herzegovina       BK        BA    BIH   070     .ba
Botswana            BC        BW    BWA   072     .bw
Bouvet Island       BV        BV    BVT   074     .bv
Brazil              BR        BR    BRA   076     .br
British Indian
  Ocean Territory   IO        IO    IOT   086     .io
British Virgin
  Islands           VI        VG    VGB   092     .vg
Brunei              BX        BN    BRN   096     .bn
Bulgaria            BU        BG    BGR   100     .bg
Burkina Faso        UV        BF    BFA   854     .bf
Burma               BM        MM    MMR   104     .mm
  ISO uses the name Myanmar

Burundi             BY        BI    BDI   108     .bi
Cambodia            CB        KH    KHM   116     .kh
Cameroon            CM        CM    CMR   120     .cm
Canada              CA        CA    CAN   124     .ca
Cape Verde          CV        CV    CPV   132     .cv
Cayman Islands      CJ        KY    CYM   136     .ky
Central African
  Republic          CT        CF    CAF   140     .cf
Chad                CD        TD    TCD   148     .td
Chile               CI        CL    CHL   152     .cl
China               CH        CN    CHN   156     .cn
  see also Taiwan

Christmas Island    KT        CX    CXR   162     .cx
Clipperton Island   IP        -     -     -       -
  ISO includes with French Polynesia

Cocos (Keeling)
  Islands           CK        CC    CCK   166     .cc
Colombia            CO        CO    COL   170     .co
Comoros             CN        KM    COM   174     .km
Congo, Democratic
  Republic of the   CG        ZR    ZAR   180     .cd
  formerly Zaire

Congo,
  Republic of the   CF        CG    COG   178     .cg
Cook Islands        CW        CK    COK   184     .ck
Coral Sea Islands   CR        -     -     -       -
  ISO includes with Australia

Costa Rica          CS        CR    CRI   188     .cr
Cote d'Ivoire       IV        CI    CIV   384     .ci
Croatia             HR        HR    HRV   191     .hr
Cuba                CU        CU    CUB   192     .cu
Cyprus              CY        CY    CYP   196     .cy
Czech Republic      EZ        CZ    CZE   203     .cz
Denmark             DA        DK    DNK   208     .dk
Djibouti            DJ        DJ    DJI   262     .dj
Dominica            DO        DM    DMA   212     .dm
Dominican Republic  DR        DO    DOM   214     .do
East Timor          -         TP    TMP   626     .tp
  FIPS includes with Indonesia

Ecuador             EC        EC    ECU   218     .ec
Egypt               EG        EG    EGY   818     .eg
El Salvador         ES        SV    SLV   222     .sv
Equatorial Guinea   EK        GQ    GNQ   226     .gq
Eritrea             ER        ER    ERI   232     .er
Estonia             EN        EE    EST   233     .ee
Ethiopia            ET        ET    ETH   231     .et
Europa Island       EU        -     -     -       -
  ISO includes with the Miscellaneous (French) Indian Ocean Islands

Falkland Islands
  (Islas Malvinas)  FA        FK    FLK   238     .fk
Faroe Islands       FO        FO    FRO   234     .fo
Fiji                FJ        FJ    FJI   242     .fj
Finland             FI        FI    FIN   246     .fi
France              FR        FR    FRA   250     .fr
France,
  Metropolitan      -         FX    FXX   249     .fx
  ISO limits to the European part of France, excluding French
  Guiana, French Polynesia, French Southern and Antarctic Lands,
  Guadeloupe, Martinique, Mayotte, New Caledonia, Reunion,
  Saint Pierre and Miquelon, Wallis and Futuna

French Guiana       FG        GF    GUF   254     .gf
French Polynesia    FP        PF    PYF   258     .pf
  ISO includes Clipperton Island

French Southern and
  Antarctic Lands   FS        TF    ATF   260     .tf
  FIPS 10-4 does not include the French-claimed portion of
  Antarctica (Terre Adelie)

Gabon               GB        GA    GAB   266     .ga
Gambia, The         GA        GM    GMB   270     .gm
Gaza Strip          GZ        -     -     -       -
Georgia             GG        GE    GEO   268     .ge
Germany             GM        DE    DEU   276     .de
Ghana               GH        GH    GHA   288     .gh
Gibraltar           GI        GI    GIB   292     .gi
Glorioso Islands    GO        -     -     -       -
  ISO includes with the Miscellaneous (French) Indian Ocean Islands

Greece              GR        GR    GRC   300     .gr
Greenland           GL        GL    GRL   304     .gl
Grenada             GJ        GD    GRD   308     .gd
Guadeloupe          GP        GP    GLP   312     .gp
Guam                GQ        GU    GUM   316     .gu
Guatemala           GT        GT    GTM   320     .gt
Guernsey            GK        -     -     -       .gg
  ISO includes with the United Kingdom

Guinea              GV        GN    GIN   324     .gn
Guinea-Bissau       PU        GW    GNB   624     .gw
Guyana              GY        GY    GUY   328     .gy
Haiti               HA        HT    HTI   332     .ht
Heard Island and
  McDonald Islands  HM        HM    HMD   334     .hm
Holy See
  (Vatican City)    VT        VA    VAT   336     .va
Honduras            HO        HN    HND   340     .hn
Hong Kong           HK        HK    HKG   344     .hk
Howland Island      HQ        -     -     -       -
  ISO includes with the US Minor Outlying Islands

Hungary             HU        HU    HUN   348     .hu
Iceland             IC        IS    ISL   352     .is
India               IN        IN    IND   356     .in
Indonesia           ID        ID    IDN   360     .id
Iran                IR        IR    IRN   364     .ir
Iraq                IZ        IQ    IRQ   368     .iq
Ireland             EI        IE    IRL   372     .ie
Israel              IS        IL    ISR   376     .il
Italy               IT        IT    ITA   380     .it
Jamaica             JM        JM    JAM   388     .jm
Jan Mayen           JN        -     -     -       -
  ISO includes with Svalbard

Japan               JA        JP    JPN   392     .jp
Jarvis Island       DQ        -     -     -       -
  ISO includes with the US Minor Outlying Islands

Jersey              JE        -     -     -       .je
  ISO includes with the United Kingdom

Johnston Atoll      JQ        -     -     -       -
  ISO includes with the US Minor Outlying Islands

Jordan              JO        JO    JOR   400     .jo
Juan de Nova Island JU        -     -     -       -
  ISO includes with the Miscellaneous (French) Indian Ocean Islands

Kazakhstan          KZ        KZ    KAZ   398     .kz
Kenya               KE        KE    KEN   404     .ke
Kingman Reef        KQ        -     -     -       -
  ISO includes with the US Minor Outlying Islands

Kiribati            KR        KI    KIR   296     .ki
Korea, North        KN        KP    PRK   408     .kp
Korea, South        KS        KR    KOR   410     .kr
Kuwait              KU        KW    KWT   414     .kw
Kyrgyzstan          KG        KG    KGZ   417     .kg
Laos                LA        LA    LAO   418     .la
Latvia              LG        LV    LVA   428     .lv
Lebanon             LE        LB    LBN   422     .lb
Lesotho             LT        LS    LSO   426     .ls
Liberia             LI        LR    LBR   430     .lr
Libya               LY        LY    LBY   434     .ly
Liechtenstein       LS        LI    LIE   438     .li
Lithuania           LH        LT    LTU   440     .lt
Luxembourg          LU        LU    LUX   442     .lu
Macau               MC        MO    MAC   446     .mo
Macedonia,
  The Republic of   MK        MK    MKD   807     .mk
Madagascar          MA        MG    MDG   450     .mg
Malawi              MI        MW    MWI   454     .mw
Malaysia            MY        MY    MYS   458     .my
Maldives            MV        MV    MDV   462     .mv
Mali                ML        ML    MLI   466     .ml
Malta               MT        MT    MLT   470     .mt
Man, Isle of        IM        -     -     -       .im
  ISO includes with the United Kingdom

Marshall Islands    RM        MH    MHL   584     .mh
Martinique          MB        MQ    MTQ   474     .mq
Mauritania          MR        MR    MRT   478     .mr
Mauritius           MP        MU    MUS   480     .mu
Mayotte             MF        YT    MYT   175     .yt
Mexico              MX        MX    MEX   484     .mx
Micronesia,
  Federated
  States of         FM        FM    FSM   583     .fm
Midway Islands      MQ        -     -     -       -
  ISO includes with the US Minor Outlying Islands

Miscellaneous
  (French) Indian
  Ocean Islands     -         -     -     -       -
  ISO includes Bassas da India, Europa Island, Glorioso Islands,
  Juan de Nova Island, Tromelin Island

Moldova             MD        MD    MDA   498     .md
Monaco              MN        MC    MCO   492     .mc
Mongolia            MG        MN    MNG   496     .mn
Montserrat          MH        MS    MSR   500     .ms
Morocco             MO        MA    MAR   504     .ma
Mozambique          MZ        MZ    MOZ   508     .mz
Myanmar             -         -     -     -       -
  see Burma

Namibia             WA        NA    NAM   516     .na
Nauru               NR        NR    NRU   520     .nr
Navassa Island      BQ        -     -     -       -
Nepal               NP        NP    NPL   524     .np
Netherlands         NL        NL    NLD   528     .nl
Netherlands
  Antilles          NT        AN    ANT   530     .an
New Caledonia       NC        NC    NCL   540     .nc
New Zealand         NZ        NZ    NZL   554     .nz
Nicaragua           NU        NI    NIC   558     .ni
Niger               NG        NE    NER   562     .ne
Nigeria             NI        NG    NGA   566     .ng
Niue                NE        NU    NIU   570     .nu
Norfolk Island      NF        NF    NFK   574     .nf
Northern Mariana
  Islands           CQ        MP    MNP   580     .mp
Norway              NO        NO    NOR   578     .no
Oman                MU        OM    OMN   512     .om
Pakistan            PK        PK    PAK   586     .pk
Palau               PS        PW    PLW   585     .pw
Palmyra Atoll       LQ        -     -     -       -
  ISO includes with the US Minor Outlying Islands

Panama              PM        PA    PAN   591     .pa
Papua New Guinea    PP        PG    PNG   598     .pg
Paracel Islands     PF        -     -     -       -
Paraguay            PA        PY    PRY   600     .py
Peru                PE        PE    PER   604     .pe
Philippines         RP        PH    PHL   608     .ph
Pitcairn Islands    PC        PN    PCN   612     .pn
Poland              PL        PL    POL   616     .pl
Portugal            PO        PT    PRT   620     .pt
Puerto Rico         RQ        PR    PRI   630     .pr
Qatar               QA        QA    QAT   634     .qa
Reunion             RE        RE    REU   638     .re
Romania             RO        RO    ROM   642     .ro
Russia              RS        RU    RUS   643     .ru
Rwanda              RW        RW    RWA   646     .rw
Saint Helena        SH        SH    SHN   654     .sh
Saint Kitts
  and Nevis         SC        KN    KNA   659     .kn
Saint Lucia         ST        LC    LCA   662     .lc
Saint Pierre
  and Miquelon      SB        PM    SPM   666     .pm
Saint Vincent and
  the Grenadines    VC        VC    VCT   670     .vc
Samoa               WS        WS    WSM   882     .ws
San Marino          SM        SM    SMR   674     .sm
Sao Tome and
  Principe          TP        ST    STP   678     .st
Saudi Arabia        SA        SA    SAU   682     .sa
Senegal             SG        SN    SEN   686     .sn
Seychelles          SE        SC    SYC   690     .sc
Sierra Leone        SL        SL    SLE   694     .sl
Singapore           SN        SG    SGP   702     .sg
Slovakia            LO        SK    SVK   703     .sk
Slovenia            SI        SI    SVN   705     .si
Solomon Islands     BP        SB    SLB   090     .sb
Somalia             SO        SO    SOM   706     .so
South Africa        SF        ZA    ZAF   710     .za
South Georgia and
  the Islands       SX        GS    SGS   239     .gs
Spain               SP        ES    ESP   724     .es
Spratly Islands     PG        -     -     -       -
Sri Lanka           CE        LK    LKA   144     .lk
Sudan               SU        SD    SDN   736     .sd
Suriname            NS        SR    SUR   740     .sr
Svalbard            SV        SJ    SJM   744     .sj
  ISO includes Jan Mayen

Swaziland           WZ        SZ    SWZ   748     .sz
Sweden              SW        SE    SWE   752     .se
Switzerland         SZ        CH    CHE   756     .ch
Syria               SY        SY    SYR   760     .sy
Taiwan              TW        TW    TWN   158     .tw
Tajikistan          TI        TJ    TJK   762     .tj
Tanzania            TZ        TZ    TZA   834     .tz
Thailand            TH        TH    THA   764     .th
Togo                TO        TG    TGO   768     .tg
Tokelau             TL        TK    TKL   772     .tk
Tonga               TN        TO    TON   776     .to
Trinidad and Tobago TD        TT    TTO   780     .tt
Tromelin Island     TE        -     -     -       -
  ISO includes with the Miscellaneous Islands

Tunisia             TS        TN    TUN   788     .tn
Turkey              TU        TR    TUR   792     .tr
Turkmenistan        TX        TM    TKM   795     .tm
Turks and
  Caicos Islands    TK        TC    TCA   796     .tc
Tuvalu              TV        TV    TUV   798     .tv
Uganda              UG        UG    UGA   800     .ug
Ukraine             UP        UA    UKR   804     .ua
United Arab
  Emirates          TC        AE    ARE   784     .ae
United Kingdom      UK        GB    GBR   826     .uk
  ISO includes Guernsey, Isle of Man, Jersey

United States       US        US    USA   840     .us
United States
  Minor Outlying
  Islands           -         UM    UMI   581     .um
  ISO includes Baker Island, Howland Island, Jarvis Island,
  Johnston Atoll, Kingman Reef, Midway Islands, Palmyra Atoll,
  Wake Island

Uruguay             UY        UY    URY   858     .uy
Uzbekistan          UZ        UZ    UZB   860     .uz
Vanuatu             NH        VU    VUT   548     .vu
Venezuela           VE        VE    VEN   862     .ve
Vietnam             VM        VN    VNM   704     .vn
Virgin Islands      VQ        VI    VIR   850     .vi
Virgin Islands (UK) -         -     -     -       .vg
  see British Virgin Islands

Virgin Islands (US) -         -     -     -       .vi
  see Virgin Islands

Wake Island         WQ        -     -     -       -
  ISO includes with the US Minor Outlying Islands

Wallis and Futuna   WF        WF    WLF   876     .wf
West Bank           WE        -     -     -       -
Western Sahara      WI        EH    ESH   732     .eh
Western Samoa       -         -     -     -       .ws
  see Samoa

World               -         -     -     -       -
  the Factbook uses the W data code from DIAM 65-18 Geopolitical
  Data Elements and Related Features, Data Standard No. 3, December
  1994, published by the Defense Intelligence Agency

Yemen               YM        YE    YEM   887     .ye
Yugoslavia          -         YU    YUG   891     .yu
Zaire               -         -     -     -       -
  see Democratic Republic of the Congo

Zambia              ZA        ZM    ZWB   894     .zm
Zimbabwe            ZI        ZW    ZWE   716     .zw



=====================================================================



Appendix E: Cross-Reference List of Hydrographic Data Codes


IHO 23-4th:  Limits of Oceans and Seas, Special Publication 23, Draft
4th Edition 1986, published by the International Hydrographic Bureau of
the International Hydrographic Organization

IHO 23-3rd:  Limits of Oceans and Seas, Special Publication 23, 3rd
Edition 1953, published by the International Hydrographic Organization

ACIC M 49-1:  Chart of Limits of Seas and Oceans, revised January 1958,
published by the Aeronautical Chart and Information Center (ACIC),
United States Air Force; note - ACIC is now part of the National
Imagery and Mapping Agency (NIMA)

DIAM 65-18:  Geopolitical Data Elements and Related Features, Data
Standard No. 4, Defense Intelligence Agency Manual 65-18, December
1994, published by the Defense Intelligence Agency

The US Government has not yet adopted a standard for hydrographic codes
similar to the Federal Information Processing Standards (FIPS) 10-4
country codes. The names and limits of the following oceans and seas
are not always directly comparable because of differences in the
customers, needs, and requirements of the individual organizations.
Even the number of principal water bodies varies from organization to
organization. Factbook users, for example, find the Atlantic Ocean and
Pacific Ocean entries useful, but none of the following standards
include those oceans in their entirety. Nor is there any provision for
combining codes or overcodes to aggregate water bodies. The recently
delimited Southern Ocean is not included.


  Principal Oceans and Seas of the World
  With Hydrographic Codes by Institution

                            IHO 23-4th  IHO 23-3rd*  ACIC M 49-1  DIAM 65-18

  Arctic Ocean              9           17           A            5A
  Atlantic Ocean            -           -            -            -
  North Atlantic Ocean      1           23           B            1A
  South Atlantic Ocean      4           32           C            2A
  Baltic Sea                2           1            B26          7B
  Indian Ocean              5           45           F            6A
  Mediterranean Sea         3.1         28           B11          -
  Eastern Mediterranean     3.1.2       28 B         -            8E
  Western Mediterranean     3.1.1       28 A         -            8W
  Pacific Ocean             -           -            -            -
  North Pacific Ocean       7           57           D            3A
  South Pacific Ocean       8           61           E            4A
  South China and Eastern
    Archipelagic Seas       6           49, 48       D18 plus     3U plus
                                                     others       others

*The letters after the numbers are subdivisions, not footnotes.



=====================================================================



Appendix F: Cross-Reference List of Geographic Names


                                   Entry in       Latitude   Longitude
Name                          The World Factbook  (deg min)  (deg min)

Abidjan (capital)             Cote d'Ivoire       5 19 N     4 02 W
Abkhazia (region)             Georgia             43 00 N    41 00 E
Abu Dhabi (capital)           United Arab         24 28 N    54 22 E
                              Emirates
Abu Musa (island)             Iran                25 52 N    55 03 E
Abuja (capital)               Nigeria             9 12 N     7 11 E
Abyssinia (former name for    Ethiopia            8 00 N     38 00 E
Ethiopia)
Acapulco (city)               Mexico              16 51 N    99 55 W
Accra (capital)               Ghana               5 33 N     0 13 W
Adamstown (capital)           Pitcairn Islands    25 04 S    130 05 W
Addis Ababa (capital)         Ethiopia            9 02 N     38 42 E
Adelie Land (Terre Adelie)    Antarctica          66 30 S    139 00 E
(claimed by France)
Aden (city)                   Yemen               12 46 N    45 01 E
Aden, Gulf of                 Indian Ocean        12 30 N    48 00 E
Admiralty Island              United States       57 44 N    134 20 W
                              (Alaska)
Admiralty Islands             Papua New Guinea    2 10 S     147 00 E
Adriatic Sea                  Atlantic Ocean      42 30 N    16 00 E
Adygey (region)               Russia              44 30 N    40 10 E
Aegean Islands                Greece              38 00 N    25 00 E
Aegean Sea                    Atlantic Ocean      38 30 N    25 00 E
Afars and Issas, French       Djibouti            11 30 N    43 00 E
Territory of the (FTAI)
(former name for Djibouti)
Afghanestan (local name for   Afghanistan         33 00 N    65 00 E
Afghanistan)
Agalega Islands               Mauritius           10 25 S    56 40 E
Agana (city; former name for  Guam                13 28 N    144 45 E
Hagatna)
Ajaccio (city)                France (Corsica)    41 55 N    8 44 E
Ajaria (region)               Georgia             41 45 N    42 10 E
Akmola (city; former name for Kazakhstan          51 10 N    71 30 E
Astana)
Aksai Chin (region)           China (de facto),   35 00 N    79 00 E
                              India (claimed)
Al Arabiyah as Suudiyah       Saudi Arabia        25 00 N    45 00 E
(local name for Saudi Arabia)
Al Bahrayn (local name for    Bahrain             26 00 N    50 33 E
Bahrain)
Al Imarat al Arabiyah al      United Arab         24 00 N    54 00 E
Muttahidah (local name for    Emirates
the United Arab Emirates)
Al Iraq (local name for Iraq) Iraq                33 00 N    44 00 E
Al Jaza'ir (local name for    Algeria             28 00 N    3 00 E
Algeria)
Al Kuwayt (local name for     Kuwait              29 30 N    45 45 E
Kuwait)
Al Maghrib (local name for    Morocco             32 00 N    5 00 W
Morocco)
Al Urdun (local name for      Jordan              31 00 N    36 00 E
Jordan)
Al Yaman (local name for      Yemen               15 00 N    48 00 E
Yemen)
Aland Islands                 Finland             60 15 N    20 00 E
Alaska (state)                United States       65 00 N    153 00 W
Alaska, Gulf of               Pacific Ocean       58 00 N    145 00 W
Alboran Sea                   Atlantic Ocean      36 00 N    2 30 W
Aldabra Islands (Groupe       Seychelles          9 25 S     46 22 E
d'Aldabra)
Alderney (island)             Guernsey            49 43 N    2 12 W
Aleutian Islands              United States       52 00 N    176 00 W
                              (Alaska)
Alexander Archipelago (island United States       57 00 N    134 00 W
group)                        (Alaska)
Alexander Island              Antarctica          71 00 S    70 00 W
Alexandretta (region; former  Turkey              36 34 N    36 08 E
name for Iskenderun)
Alexandria (city)             Egypt               31 12 N    29 54 E
Algiers (capital)             Algeria             36 47 N    2 03 E
Alhucemas, Penon de (island   Spain               35 13 N    3 53 W
group)
Alma-Ata (city; former name   Kazakhstan          43 15 N    76 57 E
for Almaty)
Almaty (former capital)       Kazakhstan          43 15 N    76 57 E
Alofi (capital)               Niue                19 01 S    169 55 E
Alphonse Island               Seychelles          7 01 S     52 45 E
Alsace (region)               France              48 30 N    7 20 E
Amami Strait                  Pacific Ocean       28 40 N    129 30 E
Amindivi Islands (former name India               11 30 N    72 30 E
for Laccadive Islands)
Amirante Isles (Les           Seychelles          6 00 S     53 10 E
Amirantes) (island group)
Amman (capital)               Jordan              31 57 N    35 56 E
Amsterdam (capital)           Netherlands         52 23 N    4 54 E
Amsterdam Island (Ile         French Southern and 37 52 S    77 32 E
Amsterdam)                    Antarctic Lands
Amundsen Sea                  Southern Ocean      72 30 S    112 00 W
Amur River                    China, Russia       52 56 N    141 10 E
Amurskiy Liman (strait)       Pacific Ocean       53 00 N    141 30 E
Anadyrskiy Zaliv (gulf)       Pacific Ocean       64 00 N    177 00 E
Anatolia (region)             Turkey              39 00 N    35 00 E
Andaman Islands               India               12 00 N    92 45 E
Andaman Sea                   Indian Ocean        10 00 N    95 00 E
Andorra la Vella (capital)    Andorra             42 30 N    1 30 E
Andros (island)               Greece              37 45 N    24 42 E
Andros Island                 The Bahamas         24 26 N    77 57 W
Anegada Passage               Atlantic Ocean      18 30 N    63 40 W
Angkor Wat (ruins)            Cambodia            13 26 N    103 50 E
Anglo-Egyptian Sudan (former  Sudan               15 00 N    30 00 E
name for Sudan)
Anjouan (island)              Comoros             12 15 S    44 25 E
Ankara (capital)              Turkey              39 56 N    32 52 E
Annobon (island)              Equatorial Guinea   1 25 S     5 36 E
Antananarivo (capital)        Madagascar          18 52 S    47 30 E
Antigua (island)              Antigua and Barbuda 14 34 N    90 44 W
Antipodes Islands             New Zealand         49 41 S    178 43 E
Antwerp (city)                Belgium             51 13 N    4 25 E
Aomen (local Chinese short-   Macau               22 10 N    113 33 E
form name for Macau)
Aozou Strip (region)          Chad                22 00 N    18 00 E
Apia (capital)                Samoa               13 50 S    171 44 N
Aqaba, Gulf of                Indian Ocean        29 00 N    34 30 E
Arab, Shatt al (river)        Iran, Iraq          29 57 N    48 34 E
Arabian Sea                   Indian Ocean        15 00 N    65 00 E
Arafura Sea                   Pacific Ocean       9 00 S     133 00 E
Aral Sea                      Kazakhstan,         45 00 N    60 00 E
                              Uzbekistan
Argun River                   China, Russia       53 20 N    121 28 E
Aru Sea                       Pacific Ocean       6 15 S     135 00 E
Ascension Island              Saint Helena        7 57 S     14 22 W
Ashgabat (capital)            Turkmenistan        37 57 N    58 23 E
Ashkhabad (see Ashgabat)      Turkmenistan        37 57 N    58 23 E
Asmara (capital)              Eritrea             15 20 N    38 53 E
Asmera (see Asmara)           Eritrea             15 20 N    38 53 E
As-Sudan (local name for      Sudan               15 00 N    30 00 E
Sudan)
Assumption Island             Seychelles          9 46 S     46 34 E
Astana (Akmola) (capital)     Kazakhstan          51 10 N    71 30 E
Asuncion (capital)            Paraguay            25 16 S    57 40 W
Asuncion Island               Northern Mariana    19 40 N    145 24 E
                              Islands
Atacama (desert)              Chile               23 00 S    70 10 W
Atacama (region)              Chile               24 30 S    69 15 W
Athens (capital)              Greece              37 59 N    23 44 E
Attu Island                   United States       52 55 N    172 57 E
Auckland Islands              New Zealand         51 00 S    166 30 E
Australes, Iles (Iles Tubuai) French Polynesia    23 20 S    151 00 W
(island group)
Avarua (capital)              Cook Islands        21 12 S    159 46 W
Axel Heiberg Island           Canada              79 30 N    90 00 W
Azad Kashmir (region)         Pakistan            34 30 N    74 00 E
Azarbaycan (local name for    Azerbaijan          40 30 N    47 30 E
Azerbaijan)
Azerbaidzhan (local name for  Azerbaijan          40 30 N    47 30 E
Azerbaijan)
Azores (islands)              Portugal            38 30 N    28 00 W
Azov, Sea of                  Atlantic Ocean      49 00 N    36 00 E
Bab el Mandeb (strait)        Indian Ocean        12 40 N    43 20 E
Babuyan Channel               Pacific Ocean       18 44 N    121 40 E
Babuyan Islands               Philippines         19 10 N    121 40 E
Baffin Bay                    Arctic Ocean        73 00 N    66 00 W
Baffin Island                 Canada              68 00 N    70 00 W
Baghdad (capital)             Iraq                33 21 N    44 25 E
Baki (see Baku)               Azerbaijan          40 23 N    49 51 E
Baku (capital)                Azerbaijan          40 23 N    49 51 E
Baky (see Baku)               Azerbaijan          40 23 N    49 51 E
Balabac Strait                Pacific Ocean       7 35 N     117 00 E
Balearic Islands              Spain               39 30 N    3 00 E
Balearic Sea (Iberian Sea)    Atlantic Ocean      40 30 N    2 00 E
Bali (island)                 Indonesia           8 20 S     115 00 E
Bali Sea                      Indian Ocean        7 45 S     115 30 E
Balintang Channel             Pacific Ocean       19 49 N    121 40 E
Balintang Islands             Philippines         19 55 N    122 10 E
Balkan Peninsula              Albania, Bosnia and 42 00 N    23 00 E
                              Herzegovina,
                              Bulgaria, Croatia,
                              Greece, The Former
                              Yugoslav Republic
                              of Macedonia,
                              Romania, Slovenia,
                              Turkey (European
                              part), Yugoslavia
Balleny Islands               Antarctica          67 00 S    163 00 E
Balochistan (region)          Pakistan            28 00 N    63 00 E
Baltic Sea                    Atlantic Ocean      57 00 N    19 00 E
Bamako (capital)              Mali                12 39 N    8 00 W
Banaba (Ocean Island)         Kiribati            0 52 S     169 35 E
Banat (region)                Hungary, Romania,   45 30 N    21 00 E
                              Yugoslavia
Banda Sea                     Pacific Ocean       5 00 S     128 00 E
Bandar Seri Begawan (capital) Brunei              4 52 S     114 55 E
Bangka (island)               Indonesia           2 30 S     106 00 E
Bangkok (capital)             Thailand            13 45 N    100 31 E
Bangui (capital)              Central African     4 22 N     18 35 E
                              Republic
Banjul (capital)              The Gambia          13 28 N    16 39 W
Banks Island                  Australia           10 12 S    142 16 E
Banks Island                  Canada              75 15 N    121 30 W
Banks Islands (Iles Banks)    Vanuatu             14 00 S    167 30 E
Barbuda (island)              Antigua and Barbuda 17 38 N    61 48 W
Barents Sea                   Arctic Ocean        74 00 N    36 00 E
Barranquilla (city)           Colombia            10 59 N    74 48 W
Bashi Channel                 Pacific Ocean       22 00 N    121 00 E
Basilan Strait                Pacific Ocean       6 49 N     122 05 E
Basque Provinces              Spain               43 00 N    2 30 W
Bass Strait                   Pacific Ocean       39 20 S    145 30 E
Basse-Terre (capital)         Guadeloupe          16 00 N    61 44 W
Basseterre (capital)          Saint Kitts and     17 18 N    62 43 W
                              Nevis
Bastia (city)                 France (Corsica)    42 42 N    9 27 E
Basutoland (former name for   Lesotho             29 30 S    28 30 E
Lesotho)
Batan Islands                 Philippines         20 30 N    121 50 E
Bavaria (Bayern) (region)     Germany             48 30 N    11 30 E
Beagle Channel                Atlantic Ocean      54 53 S    68 10 W
Bear Island (see Bjornoya)    Svalbard            74 26 N    19 05 E
Beaufort Sea                  Arctic Ocean        73 00 N    140 00 W
Bechuanaland (former name for Botswana            22 00 S    24 00 E
Botswana)
Beijing (capital)             China               39 56 N    116 24 E
Beirut (capital)              Lebanon             33 53 N    35 30 E
Bekaa Valley                  Lebanon             34 00 N    36 05 E
Belau (Palau Islands)         Palau               7 30 N     134 30 E
Belep Islands (Iles Belep)    New Caledonia       19 45 S    163 40 E
Belgian Congo (former name    Democratic Republic 0 00 N     25 00 E
for Democratic Republic of    of the Congo
the Congo)
Belgie (local name for        Belgium             50 50 N    4 00 E
Belgium)
Belgique (local name for      Belgium             50 50 N    4 00 E
Belgium)
Belgrade (capital)            Yugoslavia          44 50 N    20 30 E
Belize City (capital)         Belize              17 30 N    88 12 W
Belle Isle, Strait of         Atlantic Ocean      51 35 N    56 30 W
Bellingshausen Sea            Southern Ocean      71 00 S    85 00 W
Belmopan (capital)            Belize              17 15 N    88 46 W
Belorussia (former name for   Belarus             53 00 N    28 00 E
Belarus)
Benadir (region; former name  Somalia             4 00 N     46 00 E
of Italian Somaliland)
Bengal, Bay of                Indian Ocean        15 00 N    90 00 E
Berau, Gulf of                Pacific Ocean       2 30 S     132 30 E
Bering Island                 Russia              55 00 N    166 30 E
Bering Sea                    Pacific Ocean       60 00 N    175 00 W
Bering Strait                 Pacific Ocean       65 30 N    169 00 W
Berkner Island                Antarctica          79 30 S    49 30 W
Berlin (capital)              Germany             52 31 N    13 24 E
Berlin, East (former name for Germany             52 30 N    13 33 E
eastern sector of Berlin)
Berlin, West (former name for Germany             52 30 N    12 20 E
western sector of Berlin)
Bern (capital)                Switzerland         46 57 N    7 26 E
Bessarabia (region)           Moldova, Romania,   47 00 N    28 30 E
                              Ukraine
Bharat (local name for India) India               20 00 N    77 00 E
Bhopal (city)                 India               23 16 N    77 24 E
Biafra (region)               Nigeria             5 30 N     7 30 E
Big Diomede Island            Russia              65 46 N    169 06 W
Bijagos, Arquipelago dos      Guinea-Bissau       11 25 N    16 20 W
(island group)
Bikini Atoll                  Marshall Islands    11 35 N    165 23 E
Bilbao (city)                 Spain               43 15 N    2 58 W
Bioko (island)                Equatorial Guinea   3 30 N     8 42 E
Biscay, Bay of                Atlantic Ocean      44 00 N    4 00 W
Bishkek (capital)             Kyrgyzstan          42 54 N    74 36 E
Bishop Rock                   United Kingdom      49 52 N    6 27 W
Bismarck Archipelago (island  Papua New Guinea    5 00 S     150 00 E
group)
Bismarck Sea                  Pacific Ocean       4 00 S     148 00 E
Bissau (capital)              Guinea-Bissau       11 51 N    15 35 W
Bjornoya (Bear Island)        Svalbard            74 26 N    19 05 E
Black Forest (region)         Germany             48 00 N    8 15 E
Black Rock (island)           South Georgia and   53 39 S    41 48 W
                              the South Sandwich
                              Islands
Black Sea                     Atlantic Ocean      43 00 N    35 00 E
Bloemfontein (city, judicial  South Africa        29 12 S    26 07 E
center)
Bo Hai (gulf)                 Pacific Ocean       38 00 N    120 00 E
Boa Vista (island)            Cape Verde          16 05 N    22 50 W
Bogota (capital)              Colombia            4 36 N     74 05 W
Bohemia (region)              Czech Republic      50 00 N    14 30 E
Bombay (see Mumbai)           India               18 58 N    72 50 E
Bonaire (island)              Netherlands         12 10 N    68 15 W
                              Antilles
Bonifacio, Strait of          Atlantic Ocean      41 01 N    14 00 E
Bonin Islands                 Japan               27 00 N    140 10 E
Bonn (capital)                Germany             50 44 N    7 05 E
Bophuthatswana (enclave       South Africa        26 30 S    25 30 E
region)
Bora-Bora (island)            French Polynesia    16 30 S    151 45 W
Bordeaux (city)               France              44 50 N    0 34 W
Borneo (island)               Brunei, Indonesia,  0 30 N     114 00 E
                              Malaysia
Bornholm (island)             Denmark             55 10 N    15 00 E
Bosna i Hercegovina (local    Bosnia and          44 00 N    18 00 E
name for Bosnia and           Herzegovina
Herzegovina)
Bosnia (political region)     Bosnia and          44 00 N    18 00 E
                              Herzegovina
Bosporus (strait)             Atlantic Ocean      41 00 N    29 00 E
Bothnia, Gulf of              Atlantic Ocean      63 00 N    20 00 E
Bougainville (island)         Papua New Guinea    6 00 S     155 00 E
Bougainville Strait           Pacific Ocean       6 40 S     156 10 E
Bounty Islands                New Zealand         47 43 S    174 00 E
Bourbon Island (former name   Reunion             21 06 S    55 36 E
of Reunion)
Brasilia (capital)            Brazil              15 47 S    47 55 W
Bratislava (capital)          Slovakia            48 09 N    17 07 E
Brazzaville (capital)         Republic of the     4 16 S     15 17 E
                              Congo
Bridgetown (capital)          Barbados            13 06 N    59 37 W
Brisbane (city)               Australia           27 28 S    153 02 E
Bristol Bay                   Pacific Ocean       57 00 N    160 00 W
Bristol Channel               Atlantic Ocean      51 18 N    3 30 W
Britain (see Great Britain)   United Kingdom      54 00 N    2 00 W
British Bechuanaland (region; South Africa        27 30 S    23 30 E
former name for northwest
South Africa)
British Central African       Malawi              13 30 S    34 00 E
Protectorate (former name of
Nyasaland)
British East Africa (former   Kenya, Tanzania,    1 00 N     38 00 E
name for British possessions  Uganda
in eastern Africa)
British Guiana (former name   Guyana              5 00 N     59 00 W
for Guyana)
British Honduras (former name Belize              17 15 N    88 45 W
for Belize)
British Solomon Islands       Solomon Islands     8 00 S     159 00 E
(former name for Solomon
Islands)
British Somaliland (former    Somalia             10 00 N    49 00 E
name for northern Somalia)
Brussels (capital)            Belgium             50 50 N    4 20 E
Bubiyan (island)              Kuwait              29 47 N    48 10 E
Bucharest (capital)           Romania             44 26 N    26 06 E
Budapest (capital)            Hungary             47 30 N    19 05 E
Buenos Aires (capital)        Argentina           34 36 S    58 27 W
Bujumbura (capital)           Burundi             3 23 S     29 22 E
Bukovina (region)             Romania, Ukraine    48 00 N    26 00 E
Byelarus (local name for      Belarus             53 00 N    28 00 E
Belarus)
Byelorussia (former name for  Belarus             53 00 N    28 00 E
Belarus)
Cabinda (province)            Angola              5 33 S     12 12 E
Cabo Verde (local name for    Cape Verde          16 00 N    24 00 W
Cape Verde)
Cabot Strait                  Atlantic Ocean      47 20 N    59 30 W
Caicos Islands                Turks and Caicos    21 56 N    71 58 W
                              Islands
Cairo (capital)               Egypt               30 03 N    31 15 E
California, Gulf of           Pacific Ocean       28 00 N    112 00 W
Cameroun (local name for      Cameroon            6 00 N     12 00 E
Cameroon)
Campbell Island               New Zealand         52 33 S    169 09 E
Campeche, Bay of              Atlantic Ocean      20 00 N    94 00 W
Canal Zone (former name for   Panama              9 00 N     79 45 W
US possessions in Panama)
Canarias Sea                  Atlantic Ocean      28 00 N    16 00 W
Canary Islands                Spain               28 00 N    15 30 W
Canberra (capital)            Australia           35 17 S    149 08 E
Cancun (city)                 Mexico              21 10 N    86 50 W
Canton (Guangzhou) (city)     China               23 06 N    113 16 E
Canton Island (Kanton Island) Kiribati            2 49 S     171 40 W
Cape Juby (region; former     Morocco             27 53 N    12 58 W
name for Southern Morocco)
Cape of Good Hope (cape; also South Africa        34 15 S    18 25 E
alternate name for Cape
Province of South Africa)
Cape Province (region; former South Africa        31 30 S    22 30 E
name for Northern, Western,
and Eastern Cape Provinces of
South Africa)
Cape Town (legislative        South Africa        33 57 S    18 28 W
capital)
Caracas (capital)             Venezuela           10 30 N    66 56 W
Cargados Carajos Shoals       Mauritius           16 25 S    59 38 E
Caribbean Sea                 Atlantic Ocean      15 00 N    73 00 W
Caroline Islands              Federated States of 7 30 N     148 00 E
                              Micronesia, Palau
Carpatho-Ukraine (region;     Ukraine             48 22 N    23 32 E
former name for Zakarpats'ka
oblast')
Carpentaria, Gulf of          Pacific Ocean       14 00 S    139 00 E
Castries (capital)            Saint Lucia         14 01 N    61 00 W
Catalonia (region)            Spain               42 00 N    2 00 E
Cato Island                   Australia           23 15 S    155 32 E
Caucasus (region)             Russia              42 00 N    45 00 E
Cayenne (capital)             French Guiana       4 56 N     52 20 W
Celebes (island)              Indonesia           2 00 S     121 00 E
Celebes Sea                   Pacific Ocean       3 00 N     122 00 E
Celtic Sea                    Atlantic Ocean      51 00 N    6 30 W
Central African Empire        Central African     7 00 N     21 00 E
(former name for Central      Republic
African Republic)
Ceram (Seram) Sea             Pacific Ocean       2 30 S     129 30 E
Ceska Republika (local name   Czech Republic      49 45 N    15 30 E
for Czech Republic)
Ceskoslovensko (former local  Czech Republic,     49 00 N    17 30 E
name for Czechoslovakia)      Slovakia
Ceuta (city)                  Spain               35 53 N    5 19 W
Ceylon (former name for Sri   Sri Lanka           7 00 N     81 00 E
Lanka)
Chafarinas, Islas (island)    Spain               35 12 N    2 26 W
Chagos Archipelago (Oil       British Indian      6 00 S     71 30 E
Islands)                      Ocean Territory
Challenger Deep (Mariana      Pacific Ocean       11 22 N    142 36 E
Trench)
Channel Islands               Guernsey, Jersey    49 20 N    2 20 W
Charlotte Amalie (capital)    Virgin Islands      18 21 N    64 56 W
Chatham Islands               New Zealand         44 00 S    176 30 W
Chechnya (Chechnia) (region)  Russia              43 15 N    45 40 E
Cheju Strait                  Pacific Ocean       34 00 N    126 30 E
Cheju-do (island)             Korea, South        33 20 N    126 30 E
Chennai (Madras) (city)       India               13 04 N    80 16 E
Chesterfield Islands (Iles    New Caledonia       19 52 S    158 15 E
Chesterfield)
Chihli, Gulf of (see Bo Hai)  Pacific Ocean       38 30 N    120 00 E
Chiloe (island)               Chile               42 50 S    74 00 W
China, People's Republic of   China               35 00 N    105 00 E
China, Republic of            Taiwan              23 30 N    105 00 E
Chisinau (capital)            Moldova             47 00 N    28 50 E
Choiseul (island)             Solomon Islands     7 05 S     121 00 E
Choson (local name for North  North Korea         40 00 N    127 00 E
Korea)
Christmas Island (Indian      Australia           10 25 S    105 39 E
Ocean)
Christmas Island (Kiritimati) Kiribati            1 52 N     157 20 W
(Pacific Ocean)
Chukchi Sea                   Arctic Ocean        69 00 N    171 00 W
Chuuk Islands (Truk Islands)  Federated States of 7 25 N     151 47 W
                              Micronesia
Cilicia (region)              Turkey              36 50 N    34 30 E
Ciskei (enclave)              South Africa        33 00 S    27 00 E
Citta del Vaticano (local     Holy See            41 54 N    12 27 E
name for Vatican City)
Cochin China (region)         Vietnam             11 00 N    107 00 E
Coco, Isla del (island)       Costa Rica          5 32 N     87 04 W
Cocos Islands                 Cocos (Keeling)     12 30 S    96 50 E
                              Islands
Colombo (capital)             Sri Lanka           6 56 N     79 51 E
Colon, Archipielago de        Ecuador             0 00 N     90 30 W
(Galapagos Islands)
Commander Islands             Russia              55 00 N    167 00 E
(Komandorskiye Ostrova)
Comores (local name for       Comoros             12 10 S    44 15 E
Comoros)
Con Son (islands)             Vietnam             8 43 N     106 36 E
Conakry (capital)             Guinea              9 31 N     13 43 W
Confederatio Helvetica (local Switzerland         47 00 N    8 00 E
name for Switzerland)
Congo (Brazzaville) (former   Republic of the     1 00 S     15 00 E
name for Republic of the      Congo
Congo)
Congo (Leopoldville) (former  Democratic Republic 0 00 N     25 00 E
name for the Democratic       of the Congo
Republic of the Congo)
Constantinople (city; former  Turkey              41 01 N    28 58 E
name for Istanbul)
Cook Strait                   Pacific Ocean       41 15 S    174 30 E
Copenhagen (capital)          Denmark             55 40 N    12 35 E
Coral Sea                     Pacific Ocean       15 00 S    150 00 E
Corfu (island)                Greece              39 40 N    19 45 E
Corinth (region)              Greece              37 56 N    22 56 E
Corisco (island)              Equatorial Guinea   0 55 N     9 19 E
Corn Islands (Islas del Maiz) Nicaragua           12 15 N    83 00 W
Corocoro Island               Guyana, Venezuela   3 38 N     66 50 W
Corsica (Corse) (island)      France              42 00 N    9 00 E
Cosmoledo Group (Atoll de     Seychelles          9 43 S     47 35 E
Cosmoledo) (island group)
Cotonou (seat of government)  Benin               6 21 N     2 26 E
Cotopaxi (volcano)            Ecuador             0 39 S     78 26 W
Courantyne River              Guyana, Suriname    5 57 N     57 06 W
Cozumel (island)              Mexico              20 30 N    86 55 W
Crete (island)                Greece              35 15 N    24 45 E
Crimea (region)               Ukraine             45 00 N    34 00 E
Crimean Peninsula             Ukraine             45 00 N    34 00 E
Crooked Island Passage        Atlantic Ocean      22 55 N    74 35 W
Crozet Islands (Iles Crozet)  French Southern and 46 30 S    51 00 E
                              Antarctic Lands
Cyclades (island group)       Greece              37 00 N    25 10 E
Cyrenaica (region)            Libya               31 00 N    22 00 E
Czechoslovakia (former name   Czech Republic,     49 00 N    18 00 E
for the entity that           Slovakia
subsequently split into the
Czech Republic and Slovakia)
Dagestan (region)             Russia              43 00 N    47 00 E
Dahomey (former name for      Benin               9 30 N     2 15 E
Benin)
Daito Islands                 Japan               43 00 N    17 00 E
Dakar (capital)               Senegal             14 40 N    17 26 W
Dalmatia (region)             Croatia             43 00 N    17 00 E
Daman (Damao) (city)          India               20 10 N    73 00 E
Damascus (capital)            Syria               33 30 N    36 18 E
Danger Islands (see Pukapuka  Cook Islands        10 53 S    165 49 W
Atoll)
Danish Straits                Atlantic Ocean      58 00 N    11 00 E
Danish West Indies (former    Virgin Islands      18 20 N    64 50 W
name for the Virgin Islands)
Danmark (local name)          Denmark             56 00 N    10 00 E
Danzig (city; former name for Poland              54 23 N    18 40 E
Gdansk)
Dao Bach Long Vi (island)     Vietnam             20 08 N    107 44 E
Dar es Salaam (capital)       Tanzania            6 48 S     39 17 E
Dardanelles (strait)          Atlantic Ocean      40 15 N    26 25 E
Davis Strait                  Atlantic Ocean      67 00 N    57 00 W
Dead Sea                      Israel, Jordan,     32 30 N    35 30 E
                              West Bank
Deception Island              Antarctica          62 56 S    60 34 W
Denmark Strait                Atlantic Ocean      67 00 N    24 00 W
D'Entrecasteaux Islands       Papua New Guinea    9 30 S     150 40 E
Desolation Islands (Isles     French Southern and 49 30 S    69 30 E
Kerguelen)                    Antarctic Lands
Deutschland (local name for   Germany             51 00 N    9 00 E
Germany)
Devils Island (Ile du Diable) French Guiana       5 17 N     52 35 W
Devon Island                  Canada              76 00 N    87 00 W
Dhaka (capital)               Bangladesh          23 43 N    90 25 E
Dhivehi Raajje (local name    Maldives            3 15 N     73 00 E
for Maldives)
Dhofar (region)               Oman                17 00 N    54 10 E
Diego Garcia (island)         British Indian      7 20 S     72 25 E
                              Ocean Territory
Diego Ramirez (islands)       Chile               56 30 S    68 43 W
Dilmun (former name for       Bahrain             7 00 N     81 00 E
Bahrain)
Diomede Islands               Russia (Big         65 47 N    169 00 W
                              Diomede), United
                              States (Little
                              Diomede)
Diu (region)                  India               20 42 N    70 59 E
Djibouti (capital)            Djibouti            11 30 N    43 15 E
Dnieper (river)               Belarus, Russia,    46 30 N    32 18 E
                              Ukraine (Dnyapro,
                              Dnepr, Dnipro)
Dniester (river)              Moldova, Ukraine    46 18 N    30 17 E
                              (Nistru, Dnister)
Dobruja (region)              Bulgaria, Romania   43 30 N    28 00 E
Dodecanese (island group)     Greece              36 00 N    27 05 E
Dodoma (city)                 Tanzania            6 11 S     35 45 E
Doha (capital)                Qatar               25 17 N    51 32 E
Donets Basin                  Russia, Ukraine     48 15 N    38 30 E
Douala (city)                 Cameroon            4 03 N     9 42 E
Douglas (capital)             Man, Isle of        54 09 N    4 28 W
Dover, Strait of              Atlantic Ocean      51 00 N    1 30 E
Drake Passage                 Atlantic Ocean,     60 00 S    60 00 W
                              Southern Ocean
Druk Yul (local name for      Bhutan              27 30 N    90 30 E
Bhutan)
Dubai (city)                  United Arab         25 18 N    55 18 E
                              Emirates
Dubayy (see Dubai)            United Arab         25 18 N    55 18 E
                              Emirates
Dublin (capital)              Ireland             53 20 N    6 15 W
Dushanbe (capital)            Tajikistan          38 35 N    68 48 E
Dutch Antilles (former name   Netherlands         52 05 N    4 18 E
for the Netherlands Antilles) Antilles
Dutch East Indies (former     Indonesia           5 00 S     120 00 E
name for Indonesia)
Dutch Guiana (former name for Suriname            4 00 N     56 00 W
Suriname)
Dutch West Indies (former     Netherlands         52 05 N    4 18 E
name for the Netherlands      Antilles
Antilles)
Dzungarian Gate (valley)      China, Kazakhstan   45 25 N    82 25 E
Dagestan (region)             Russia              43 00 N    47 00 E
Dahomey (former name for      Benin               9 30 N     2 15 E
Benin)
Daito Islands                 Japan               43 00 N    17 00 E
Dakar (capital)               Senegal             14 40 N    17 26 W
Dalmatia (region)             Croatia             43 00 N    17 00 E
Daman (Damao) (city)          India               20 10 N    73 00 E
Damascus (capital)            Syria               33 30 N    36 18 E
Danger Islands (see Pukapuka  Cook Islands        10 53 S    165 49 W
Atoll)
Danish Straits                Atlantic Ocean      58 00 N    11 00 E
Danish West Indies (former    Virgin Islands      18 20 N    64 50 W
name for the Virgin Islands)
Danmark (local name)          Denmark             56 00 N    10 00 E
Danzig (city; former name for Poland              54 23 N    18 40 E
Gdansk)
Dao Bach Long Vi (island)     Vietnam             20 08 N    107 44 E
Dar es Salaam (capital)       Tanzania            6 48 S     39 17 E
Dardanelles (strait)          Atlantic Ocean      40 15 N    26 25 E
Davis Strait                  Atlantic Ocean      67 00 N    57 00 W
Dead Sea                      Israel, Jordan,     32 30 N    35 30 E
                              West Bank
Deception Island              Antarctica          62 56 S    60 34 W
Denmark Strait                Atlantic Ocean      67 00 N    24 00 W
D'Entrecasteaux Islands       Papua New Guinea    9 30 S     150 40 E
Desolation Islands (Isles     French Southern and 49 30 S    69 30 E
Kerguelen)                    Antarctic Lands
Deutschland (local name for   Germany             51 00 N    9 00 E
Germany)
Devils Island (Ile du Diable) French Guiana       5 17 N     52 35 W
Devon Island                  Canada              76 00 N    87 00 W
Dhaka (capital)               Bangladesh          23 43 N    90 25 E
Dhivehi Raajje (local name    Maldives            3 15 N     73 00 E
for Maldives)
Dhofar (region)               Oman                17 00 N    54 10 E
Diego Garcia (island)         British Indian      7 20 S     72 25 E
                              Ocean Territory
Diego Ramirez (islands)       Chile               56 30 S    68 43 W
Dilmun (former name for       Bahrain             7 00 N     81 00 E
Bahrain)
Diomede Islands               Russia (Big         65 47 N    169 00 W
                              Diomede), United
                              States (Little
                              Diomede)
Diu (region)                  India               20 42 N    70 59 E
Djibouti (capital)            Djibouti            11 30 N    43 15 E
Dnieper (river)               Belarus, Russia,    46 30 N    32 18 E
                              Ukraine (Dnyapro,
                              Dnepr, Dnipro)
Dniester (river)              Moldova, Ukraine    46 18 N    30 17 E
                              (Nistru, Dnister)
Dobruja (region)              Bulgaria, Romania   43 30 N    28 00 E
Dodecanese (island group)     Greece              36 00 N    27 05 E
Dodoma (city)                 Tanzania            6 11 S     35 45 E
Doha (capital)                Qatar               25 17 N    51 32 E
Donets Basin                  Russia, Ukraine     48 15 N    38 30 E
Douala (city)                 Cameroon            4 03 N     9 42 E
Douglas (capital)             Man, Isle of        54 09 N    4 28 W
Dover, Strait of              Atlantic Ocean      51 00 N    1 30 E
Drake Passage                 Atlantic Ocean,     60 00 S    60 00 W
                              Southern Ocean
Druk Yul (local name for      Bhutan              27 30 N    90 30 E
Bhutan)
Dubai (city)                  United Arab         25 18 N    55 18 E
                              Emirates
Dubayy (see Dubai)            United Arab         25 18 N    55 18 E
                              Emirates
Dublin (capital)              Ireland             53 20 N    6 15 W
Dushanbe (capital)            Tajikistan          38 35 N    68 48 E
Dutch Antilles (former name   Netherlands         52 05 N    4 18 E
for the Netherlands Antilles) Antilles
Dutch East Indies (former     Indonesia           5 00 S     120 00 E
name for Indonesia)
Dutch Guiana (former name for Suriname            4 00 N     56 00 W
Suriname)
Dutch West Indies (former     Netherlands         52 05 N    4 18 E
name for the Netherlands      Antilles
Antilles)
Dzungarian Gate (valley)      China, Kazakhstan   45 25 N    82 25 E
East China Sea                Pacific Ocean       30 00 N    126 00 E
East Frisian Islands          Germany             53 44 N    7 25 E
East Germany (German          Germany             52 00 N    13 00 E
Democratic Republic) (former
name for eastern portion of
Germany)
East Korea Strait (Eastern    Pacific Ocean       34 00 N    129 00 E
Channel or Tsushima Strait)
East Pakistan (former name    Bangladesh          24 00 N    90 00 E
for Bangladesh)
East Siberian Sea             Arctic Ocean        74 00 N    166 00 E
East Timor (Portuguese Timor) Indonesia           9 00 S     126 00 E
Easter Island (Isla de        Chile               27 07 S    109 22 W
Pascua)
Eastern Channel (East Korea   Pacific Ocean       34 00 N    129 00 E
Strait or Tsushima Strait)
Eastern Samoa (former name    American Samoa      14 20 S    170 00 W
for American Samoa)
Eesti (local name for         Estonia             59 00 N    26 00 E
Estonia)
Eire (local name for Ireland) Ireland             53 00 N    8 00 W
Elba (island)                 Italy               42 46 N    10 17 E
Elemi Triangle (region)       Ethiopia (claimed), 5 00 N     35 30 E
                              Kenya (de facto),
                              Sudan (claimed)
Ellada (local name for        Greece              39 00 N    22 00 E
Greece)
Ellas (local name for Greece) Greece              39 00 N    22 00 E
Ellef Ringnes Island          Canada              78 00 N    103 00 W
Ellesmere Island              Canada              81 00 N    80 00 W
Ellice Islands                Tuvalu              8 00 S     178 00 E
Ellsworth Land (region)       Antarctica          75 00 S    92 00 W
Elobey, Islas de (island      Equatorial Guinea   0 59 N     9 33 E
group)
Enderbury Island              Kiribati            3 08 S     171 05 W
Enewetak Atoll (Eniwetok      Marshall Islands    11 30 N    162 15 E
Atoll)
England (region)              United Kingdom      52 30 N    1 30 W
English Channel               Atlantic Ocean      50 20 N    1 00 W
Eniwetok Atoll (see Enewetak  Marshall Islands    11 30 N    162 15 E
Atoll)
Eolie, Isole (island group)   Italy               38 30 N    15 00 E
Epirus, Northern (region)     Albania, Greece     40 00 N    20 30 E
Ertra (local name for         Eritrea             15 00 N    39 00 E
Eritrea)
Espana                        Spain               40 00 N    4 00 W
Essequibo (region) (claimed   Guyana              6 59 N     58 23 W
by Venezuela)
Etorofu (Iturup) (island)     Russia (de facto)   44 55 N    147 40 E
Farquhar Group (Atoll de      Seychelles          10 10 S    51 10 E
Farquhar) (island group)
Fergana Valley                Kyrgyzstan,         41 00 N    72 00 E
                              Tajikistan,
                              Uzbekistan
Fernando de Noronha (island   Brazil              3 51 S     32 25 W
group)
Fernando Po (island) (see     Equatorial Guinea   3 30 N     8 42 E
Bioko)
Filipinas (local name for the Philippines         13 00 N    122 00 E
Philippines)
Finland, Gulf of              Atlantic Ocean      60 00 N    27 00 E
Flores (island)               Indonesia           8 45 S     121 00 E
Flores Sea                    Pacific Ocean       7 40 S     119 45 E
Florida, Straits of           Atlantic Ocean      25 00 N    79 45 W
Former Soviet Union (FSU)     Armenia,
                              Azerbaijan,
                              Belarus, Estonia,
                              Georgia,
                              Kazakhstan,
                              Kyrgyzstan, Latvia,
                              Lithuania, Moldova,
                              Russia, Tajikistan,
                              Turkmenistan,
                              Ukraine, Uzbekistan
Formosa (island)              Taiwan              23 30 N    121 00 E
Formosa Strait (see Taiwan    Pacific Ocean       24 00 N    119 00 E
Strait)
Foroyar (local name for Faroe Faroe Islands       62 00 N    7 00 W
Islands)
Fort-de-France (capital)      Martinique          14 36 N    61 05 W
Franz Josef Land (island      Russia              81 00 N    55 00 E
group)
Freetown (capital)            Sierra Leone        8 30 N     13 15 W
French Cameroon (former name  Cameroon            6 00 N     12 00 E
for Cameroon)
French Guinea (former name    Guinea              11 00 N    10 00 W
for Guinea)
French Indochina (former name Cambodia, Laos,     15 00 N    107 00 E
for French possessions in     Vietnam
southeast Asia)
French Morocco (former name   Morocco             32 00 N    5 00 W
for Morocco)
French Somaliland (former     Djibouti            11 30 N    43 00 W
name for Djibouti)
French Sudan (former name for Mali                17 00 N    4 00 W
Mali)
French Territory of the Afars Djibouti            11 30 N    43 00 E
and Issas (FTAI) (former name
for Djibouti)
French Togoland (former name  Togo                8 00 N     1 10 E
for Togo)
French West Indies (former    Guadeloupe,         16 30 N    62 00 W
name for French possessions   Martinique
in the West Indies)
Friendly Islands              Tonga               20 00 S    175 00 W
Frisian Islands               Denmark, Germany,   53 35 N    6 40 E
                              Netherlands
Frunze (city; former name for Kyrgyzstan          42 54 N    74 36 E
Bishkek)
Funafuti (capital)            Tuvalu              8 30 S     179 12 E
Fundy, Bay of                 Atlantic Ocean      45 00 N    66 00 W
Futuna Islands (Hoorn         Wallis and Futuna   14 19 S    178 05 W
Islands/Iles de Horne)
Fyn (island)                  Denmark             55 20 N    10 25 E
Gaborone (capital)            Botswana            24 45 S    25 55 E
Galapagos Islands             Ecuador             0 00 N     90 30 W
(Archipielago de Colon)
Galicia (region)              Poland, Ukraine     49 30 N    23 00 E
Galicia (region)              Spain               42 45 N    8 10 E
Galilee (region)              Israel              32 54 N    35 20 E
Galleons Passage              Atlantic Ocean      11 00 N    60 55 W
Gambier Islands (Iles         French Polynesia    23 09 S    134 58 W
Gambier)
Gaspar Strait                 Pacific Ocean       3 00 S     107 00 E
Gdansk (Danzig) (city)        Poland              54 23 N    18 40 E
Geneva (city)                 Switzerland         46 12 N    6 10 E
Genoa (city)                  Italy               44 25 N    8 57 E
George Town (capital)         Cayman Islands      19 20 N    81 23 W
George Town (city)            Malaysia            5 26 N     100 16 E
George Town (city)            The Bahamas         23 30 N    75 46 W
Georgetown (capital)          Guyana              6 48 N     58 10 W
Georgetown (city)             The Gambia          13 30 N    14 47 W
German Democratic Republic    Germany             52 00 N    13 00 E
(East Germany) (former name
for eastern portion of
Germany)
German Southwest Africa       Namibia             22 00 S    17 00 E
(former name for Namibia)
Germany, Federal Republic of  Germany             51 00 N    9 00 E
Gibraltar (city, peninsula)   Gibraltar           36 11 N    5 22 W
Gibraltar, Strait of          Atlantic Ocean      35 57 N    5 36 W
Gidi Pass                     Egypt               30 13 N    33 09 E
Gilbert Islands               Kiribati            1 25 N     173 00 E
Goa (state)                   India               14 20 N    74 00 E
Gobi (desert)                 China, Mongolia     42 30 N    107 00 E
Godthab (Nuuk) (capital)      Greenland           64 11 N    51 44 W
Golan Heights (region)        Syria               33 00 N    35 45 E
Gold Coast (former name for   Ghana               8 00 N     2 00 W
Ghana)
Golfo San Jorge (gulf)        Atlantic Ocean      46 00 S    66 00 W
Golfo San Matias (gulf)       Atlantic Ocean      41 30 S    64 00 W
Good Hope, Cape of            South Africa        34 24 S    18 30 E
Goteborg (city)               Sweden              57 43 N    11 58 E
Gotland (island)              Sweden              57 30 N    18 33 E
Gough Island                  Saint Helena        40 10 S    9 45 W
Graham Land (region)          Antarctica          65 00 S    64 00 W
Gran Chaco (region)           Argentina, Paraguay 24 00 S    60 00 W
Grand Bahama (island)         The Bahamas         26 40 N    78 35 W
Grand Banks (fishing ground)  Atlantic Ocean      47 06 N    55 48 W
Grand Cayman (island)         Cayman Islands      19 20 N    81 20 W
Grand Turk (Cockburn Town)    Turks and Caicos    21 28 N    71 08 W
(capital)                     Islands
Great Australian Bight        Indian Ocean        35 00 S    130 00 E
Great Belt (Store Baelt)      Atlantic Ocean      55 30 N    11 00 E
(strait)
Great Bitter Lake             Egypt               30 20 N    32 23 E
Great Britain (island)        United Kingdom      54 00 N    2 00 W
Great Channel                 Indian Ocean        6 25 N     94 20 E
Great Inagua (island)         The Bahamas         21 00 N    73 20 W
Great Rift Valley             Ethiopia, Kenya     0 30 N     36 00 E
Greater Sunda Islands         Brunei, Indonesia,  2 00 S     110 00 E
                              Malaysia
Green Islands                 Papua New Guinea    4 30 S     154 10 E
Greenland Sea                 Arctic Ocean        79 00 N    5 00 W
Grenadines, Northern (island  Saint Vincent and   13 15 N    61 12 W
group)                        the Grenadines
Grenadines, Southern (island  Grenada             12 07 N    61 40 W
group)
Grytviken (South Georgia)     South Georgia and   54 15 S    36 45 W
(town)                        the South Sandwich
                              Islands
Guadalcanal (island)          Solomon Islands     9 32 S     160 12 E
Guadalupe, Isla de (island)   Mexico              29 11 N    118 17 W
Guantanamo Bay (US Naval      Cuba                20 00 N    75 08 W
Base)
Guatemala (capital)           Guatemala           14 38 N    90 31 W
Guinea Ecuatorial (local name Equatorial Guinea   2 00 N     10 00 E
for Equatorial Guinea)
Guinea, Gulf of               Atlantic Ocean      3 00 N     2 30 E
Guine-Bissau (local name for  Guinea-Bissau       12 00 N    15 00 W
Guinea-Bissau)
Guinee (local name for        Guinea              11 00 N    10 00 W
Guinea)
Guyane Francaise (local name  French Guiana       4 00 N     53 00 W
for French Guiana)
Ha'apai Group (island group)  Tonga            19 42 S        174 29
                                                             W
Habomai Islands               Russia (de       43 30 N        146 10
                              facto)                         E
Hadhramaut (region)           Yemen            15 00 N        50 00 E
Hagatna (Agana) (capital)     Guam             13 28 N        144 45
                                                             E
Hague, The (seat of           Netherlands      52 05 N        4 18 E
government)
Haifa (city)                  Israel           32 50 N        35 00 E
Hainan Dao (island)           China            19 00 N        109 30
                                                             E
Haiphong (city)               Vietnam          20 52 N        106 41
                                                             E
Halaib Triangle (region)      Egypt (claimed), 22 30 N        35 00 E
                              Sudan (de facto)
Halmahera (island)            Indonesia        1 00 N         128 00
                                                             E
Halmahera Sea                 Pacific Ocean    0 30 S         129 00
                                                             E
Hamilton (capital)            Bermuda          32 17 N        64 46 W
Han-guk (local name for South South Korea      37 00 N        127 30
Korea)                                                       E
Hanoi (capital)               Vietnam          21 02 N        105 51
                                                             E
Harare (capital)              Zimbabwe         17 50 S        31 03 E
Harvey Islands (former name   Cook Islands     21 14 S        159 46
for Cook Islands)                                            W
Hatay (province)              Turkey           36 30 N        36 15 E
Havana (capital)              Cuba             23 08 N        82 22 W
Hawaii (island)               United States    19 45 N        155 45
                                                             W
Hawaiian Islands              United States    21 00 N        157 45
                                                             W
Hawar (island)                Bahrain          25 40 N        50 47 E
Hayastan (local name for      Armenia          40 00 N        45 00 E
Armenia)
Heard Island                  Heard Island and 53 06 S        73 30 E
                              McDonald Islands
Hejaz (region)                Saudi Arabia     24 30 N        38 30 E
Helsinki (capital)            Finland          60 10 N        24 58 E
Herzegovina (political        Bosnia and       44 00 N        18 00 E
region)                       Herzegovina
Hiiumaa (island)              Estonia          58 50 N        22 30 E
Hispaniola (island)           Dominican        18 45 N        71 00 W
                              Republic, Haiti
Ho Chi Minh City (Saigon)     Vietnam          10 45 N        106 40
                                                             E
Hokkaido (island)             Japan            44 00 N        143 00
                                                             E
Holland (region)              Netherlands      52 30 N        5 45 E
Hong Kong (special            Hong Kong        22 15 N        114 10
administrative region)                                       E
Honiara (capital)             Solomon Islands  9 26 S         159 57
                                                             E
Honshu (island)               Japan            36 00 N        138 00
                                                             E
Hormuz, Strait of             Indian Ocean     26 34 N        56 15 E
Horn of Africa (region)       Djibouti,        8 00 N         48 00 E
                              Eritrea,
                              Ethiopia,
                              Somalia
Horn, Cape (Cabo de Hornos)   Chile            55 59 S        67 16 W
Horne, Iles de (island group) Wallis and       14 19 S        178 05
                              Futuna                         W
Hrvatska (local name for      Croatia          45 10 N        15 30 E
Croatia)
Hudson Bay                    Arctic Ocean     60 00 N        86 00 W
Hudson Strait                 Arctic Ocean     62 00 N        71 00 W
Hunter Island                 New Caledonia,   22 24 S        172 06
                              Vanuatu                        E
Iberian Peninsula             Portugal, Spain  40 00 N        5 00 W
Iceland Sea                   Arctic Ocean     68 00 N        20 00 W
Ifni (region; former name of  Morocco          29 22 N        10 09 W
part of Spanish West Africa)
Inaccessible Island           Saint Helena     37 17 S        12 40 W
Indochina (region)            Cambodia, Laos,  15 00 N        107 00 E
                              Vietnam
Ingushetia (region)           Russia           43 15 N        45 00 E
Inhambane (region)            Mozambique       22 30 S        34 30 E
Inini (former name for French French Guiana    4 00 N         53 00 W
Guiana)
Inland Sea                    Japan            34 20 N        133 30 E
Inner Hebrides (islands)      United Kingdom   56 30 N        6 20 W
Inner Mongolia (Nei Mongol)   China            42 00 N        113 00 E
(region)
Ionian Islands                Greece           38 30 N        20 30 E
Ionian Sea                    Atlantic Ocean   38 30 N        18 00 E
Irian Jaya (province)         Indonesia        5 00 S         138 00 E
Irish Sea                     Atlantic Ocean   53 30 N        5 20 W
Iron Gate (river gorge)       Romania,         44 41 N        22 31 E
                              Yugoslavia
Iskenderun (Alexandretta)     Turkey           36 34 N        36 08 E
(region)
Islamabad (capital)           Pakistan         33 42 N        73 10 E
Island (local name for        Iceland          65 00 N        18 00 W
Iceland)
Islas Malvinas (island group) Falkland Islands 51 45 S        59 00 W
                              (Islas Malvinas)
Istanbul (city)               Turkey           41 01 N        28 58 E
Istrian Peninsula             Croatia,         45 00 N        14 00 E
                              Slovenia
Italia (local name for Italy) Italy            42 50 N        12 50 E
Italian East Africa (former   Eritrea,         8 00 N         38 00 E
name for Italian possessions  Ethiopia,
in eastern Africa)            Somalia
Italian Somaliland (former    Somalia          10 00 N        49 00 E
name for southern Somalia)
Ittihad al-Imarat al-Arabiyah United Arab      24 00 N        54 00 E
(local name for the United    Emirates
Arab Emirates)
Iturup (see Etorofu) (island) Russia (de       44 55 N        147 40 E
                              facto)
Ityop'iya (local name for     Ethiopia         8 00 N         38 00 E
Ethiopia)
Ivory Coast (former name for  Cote d'Ivoire    8 00 N         5 00 W
Cote d'Ivoire)
Iwo Jima (island)             Japan            24 47 N        141 20 E
Izmir (region)                Turkey           38 25 N        27 10 E
Jakarta (capital)             Indonesia           6 10 S     106 48 E
James Bay                     Arctic Ocean        54 00 N    80 00 W
Jamestown (capital)           Saint Helena        15 56 S    5 44 W
Jammu (city)                  India               32 42 N    74 52 E
Jammu and Kashmir (region)    India, Pakistan     34 00 N    76 00 E
Japan, Sea of                 Pacific Ocean       40 00 N    135 00 E
Jars, Plain of                Laos                19 27 N    103 10 E
Java (island)                 Indonesia           7 30 S     110 00 E
Java Sea                      Pacific Ocean       5 00 S     110 00 E
Jerusalem (capital,           Israel, West Bank   31 47 N    35 14 E
proclaimed)
Jiddah (Jeddah) (city)        Saudi Arabia        21 30 N    39 12 E
Johannesburg (city)           South Africa        26 15 S    28 00 E
Joseph Bonaparte Gulf         Pacific Ocean       14 00 S    128 45 E
Juan de Fuca, Strait of       Pacific Ocean       48 18 N    124 00 W
Juan Fernandez, Islas de      Chile               33 00 S    80 00 W
(island group)
Jubal, Strait of              Indian Ocean        27 40 N    33 55 E
Judaea (region)               Israel, West Bank   31 35 N    35 00 E
Jugoslavia, Jugoslavija       Yugoslavia          43 00 N    21 00 E
(local names for Yugoslavia)
Jutland (region)              Denmark             56 00 N    9 15 E
Juventud, Isla de la (Isle of Cuba                21 40 N    82 50 W
Youth)
Kabardino-Balkaria (region)   Russia           43 30 N        43 30 E
Kabul (capital)               Afghanistan      34 31 N        69 12 E
Kaduna (city)                 Nigeria          10 33 N        7 27 E
Kailas Range                  China, India     30 00 N        82 00 E
Kalaallit Nunaat (local name  Greenland        72 00 N        40 00 W
for Greenland)
Kalahari (desert)             Botswana,        24 30 S        21 00 E
                              Namibia
Kalimantan (region)           Indonesia        0 00 N         115 00
                                                             E
Kaliningrad (region; formerly Russia           54 30 N        21 00 E
part of East Prussia)
Kamaran (island)              Yemen            15 21 N        42 34 E
Kamchatka Peninsula           Russia           56 00 N        160 00
(Poluostrov Kamchatka)                                       E
Kampala (capital)             Uganda           0 19 N         32 25 E
Kampuchea (former name for    Cambodia         13 00 N        105 00
Cambodia)                                                    E
Kane Basin (portion of        Arctic Ocean     79 30 N        68 00 W
channel)
Kanton Island                 Kiribati         2 49 S         171 40
                                                             W
Kara Sea                      Arctic Ocean     76 00 N        80 00 E
Karachevo-Cherkessia (region) Russia           43 40 N        41 50 E
Karafuto (island; former name Russia           50 00 N        143 00
for southern Sakhalin Island)                                E
Karakoram Pass                China, India     35 30 N        77 50 E
Karelia (region)              Finland, Russia  63 15 N        30 48 E
Karelian Isthmus              Russia           60 25 N        30 00 E
Karimata Strait               Pacific Ocean    2 05 S         108 40
                                                             E
Kashmir (region)              India, Pakistan  34 00 N        76 00 E
Katanga (region)              Democratic       10 00 S        26 00 E
                              Republic of the
                              Congo
Kathmandu (capital)           Nepal            27 43 N        85 19 E
Kattegat (strait)             Atlantic Ocean   57 00 N        11 00 E
Kauai Channel                 Pacific Ocean    21 45 N        158 50
                                                             W
Kazakstan (former name for    Kazakhstan       48 00 N        68 00 E
Kazakhstan)
Keeling Islands               Cocos (Keeling)  12 30 S        96 50 E
                              Islands
Kerguelen, Iles (island       French Southern  49 30 S        69 30 E
group)                        and Antarctic
                              Lands
Kermadec Islands              New Zealand      29 50 S        178 15
                                                             W
Kerulen River                 China, Mongolia  48 48 N        117 00
                                                             E
Khabarovsk (city)             Russia           48 27 N        135 06
                                                             E
Khanka, Lake                  China, Russia    45 00 N        132 24
                                                             E
Khartoum (capital)            Sudan            15 36 N        32 32 E
Khios (island)                Greece           38 22 N        26 04 E
Khmer Republic (former name   Cambodia         13 00 N        105 00
for Cambodia)                                                E
Khuriya Muriya Islands (Kuria Oman             17 30 N        56 00 E
Muria Islands)
Khyber Pass                   Afghanistan,     34 05 N        71 10 E
                              Pakistan
Kibris (Turkish local name    Cyprus           35 00 N        33 00 E
for Cyprus)
Kiel Canal (Nord-Ostsee       Atlantic Ocean   53 53 N        9 08 E
Kanal)
Kiev (capital)                Ukraine          50 26 N        30 31 E
Kigali (capital)              Rwanda           1 57 S         30 04 E
Kingston (capital)            Jamaica          18 00 N        76 48 W
Kingston (capital)            Norfolk Island   29 03 S        167 58
                                                             E
Kingstown (capital)           Saint Vincent    13 09 N        61 14 W
                              and the
                              Grenadines
Kinshasa (capital)            Democratic       4 18 S         15 18 E
                              Republic of the
                              Congo
Kipros (Greek local name for  Cyprus           35 00 N        33 00 E
Cyprus)
Kirghiziya (former name for   Kyrgyzstan       41 00 N        75 00 E
Kyrgyzstan)
Kirgizia (former name for     Kyrgyzstan       41 00 N        75 00 E
Kyrgyzstan)
Kirguizstan (local name for   Kyrgyzstan       41 00 N        75 00 E
Kyrgyzstan)
Kiritimati (Christmas Island) Kiribati         1 52 N         157 20
                                                             W
Kishinev (see Chisinau)       Moldova          47 00 N        28 50 E
Kithira Strait                Atlantic Ocean   36 00 N        23 00 E
Kobe (city)                   Japan            34 41 N        135 10
                                                             E
Kodiak Island                 United States    57 49 N        152 23
                                                             W
Kola Peninsula (Kol'skiy      Russia           67 20 N        37 00 E
Poluostrov)
Kolonia (town; former         Federated States 6 58 N         158 13
capital) (see Palikir)        of Micronesia                  E
Korea Bay                     Pacific Ocean    39 00 N        124 00
                                                             E
Korea Strait                  Pacific Ocean    34 00 N        129 00
                                                             E
Korea, Democratic People's    North Korea      40 00 N        127 00
Republic of                                                  E
Korea, Republic of            South Korea      37 00 N        127 30
                                                             E
Koror (capital)               Palau            7 20 N         134 29
                                                             E
Kosovo (region)               Yugoslavia       42 30 N        21 00 E
Kosrae (island)               Federated States 5 20 N         163 00
                              of Micronesia                  E
Kowloon (city)                Hong Kong        22 18 N        114 10
                                                             E
Kra, Isthmus of               Burma, Thailand  10 20 N        99 00 E
Krakatoa (volcano)            Indonesia        6 07 S         105 24
                                                             E
Kuala Lumpur (capital)        Malaysia         3 10 N         101 42
                                                             E
Kunashiri (Kunashir) (island) Russia (de       44 20 N        146 00
                              facto)                         E
Kunlun Mountains              China            36 00 N        84 00 E
Kuril Islands                 Russia (de       46 10 N        152 00
                              facto)                         E
Kuwait (capital)              Kuwait           29 20 N        47 59 E
Kuznetsk Basin                Russia           54 00 N        86 00 E
Kwajalein Atoll               Marshall Islands 9 05 N         167 20
                                                             E
Kyushu (island)               Japan            33 00 N        131 00
                                                             E
Kyyiv (see Kiev)              Ukraine          50 26 N        30 31 E
La Paz (capital)              Bolivia             16 30 S    68 09 W
La Perouse Strait             Pacific Ocean       45 45 N    142 00 E
Labrador (peninsula, region)  Canada              54 00 N    62 00 W
Labrador Sea                  Atlantic Ocean      60 00 N    55 00 W
Laccadive Islands             India               10 00 N    73 00 E
Laccadive Sea                 Indian Ocean        7 00 N     76 00 E
Lagos (capital)               Nigeria             6 27 N     3 24 E
Lake Erie                     Atlantic Ocean      42 30 N    81 00 W
Lake Huron                    Atlantic Ocean      45 00 N    83 00 W
Lake Michigan                 Atlantic Ocean      43 30 N    87 30 W
Lake Ontario                  Atlantic Ocean      43 30 N    78 00 W
Lake Superior                 Atlantic Ocean      48 00 N    88 00 W
Lakshadweep (Laccadive        India               10 00 N    73 00 E
Islands)
Lantau Island                 Hong Kong           22 15 N    113 55 E
Lao (local name for Laos)     Laos                18 00 N    105 00 E
Laptev Sea                    Arctic Ocean        76 00 N    126 00 E
Las Palmas (city)             Spain (Canary       28 06 N    15 24 W
                              Islands)
Latakia (region)              Syria               36 00 N    35 50 E
Latvija (local name for       Latvia              57 00 N    25 00 E
Latvia)
Lau Group (island group)      Fiji                18 20 S    178 30 E
Lefkosa (see Nicosia)         Cyprus              35 10 N    33 22 E
Lemnos (island)               Greece              39 54 N    25 21 E
Leningrad (see Saint          Russia              59 55 N    30 15 E
Petersburg)
Lesser Sunda Islands          Indonesia           9 00 S     120 00 E
Lesvos (island)               Greece              39 15 N    26 15 E
Leyte (island)                Philippines         10 50 N    124 50 E
Liancourt Rocks (claimed by   South Korea         37 15 N    131 50 E
Japan)
Liaodong Wan (gulf)           Pacific Ocean       40 30 N    121 20 E
Liban (local name for         Lebanon             33 50 N    36 50 E
Lebanon)
Libreville (capital)          Gabon               0 23 N     9 27 E
Lietuva (local name for       Lithuania           56 00 N    24 00 E
Lithuania)
Ligurian Sea                  Atlantic Ocean      43 30 N    9 00 E
Lilongwe (capital)            Malawi              13 59 S    33 44 E
Lima (capital)                Peru                12 03 S    77 03 W
Lincoln Sea                   Arctic Ocean        83 00 N    56 00 W
Line Islands                  Jarvis Island,      0 05 N     157 00 W
                              Kingman Reef,
                              Kiribati, Palmyra
                              Atoll
Lion, Gulf of                 Atlantic Ocean      43 20 N    4 00 E
Lisbon (capital)              Portugal            38 43 N    9 08 W
Little Belt (Lille Baelt)     Atlantic Ocean      55 05 N    9 55 E
(strait)
Ljubljana (capital)           Slovenia            46 03 N    14 31 E
Llanos (region)               Venezuela           8 00 N     68 00 W
Lobamba (city)                Swaziland           26 27 S    31 12 E
Lombok (island)               Indonesia           8 28 S     116 40 E
Lombok Strait                 Indian Ocean        8 30 S     115 50 E
Lome (capital)                Togo                6 08 N     1 13 E
London (capital)              United Kingdom      51 30 N    0 10 W
Longyearbyen (town)           Svalbard            78 13 N    15 33 E
Lord Howe Island              Australia           31 30 S    159 00 E
Lorraine (region)             France              48 42 N    6 11 E
Louisiade Archipelago         Papua New Guinea    11 00 S    153 00 E
Lourenco Marques (city)       Mozambique          25 56 S    32 34 E
(former name for Maputo)
Loyalty Islands (Iles         New Caledonia       21 00 S    167 00 E
Loyaute)
Luanda (capital)              Angola              8 48 S     13 14 E
Lubnan (local name for        Lebanon             33 50 N    36 50 E
Lebanon)
Lubumbashi (city)             Democratic Republic 11 40 S    27 28 E
                              of the Congo
Lusaka (capital)              Zambia              15 25 S    28 17 E
Luxembourg (capital)          Luxembourg          49 45 N    6 10 E
Luzon (island)                Philippines         16 00 N    121 00 E
Luzon Strait                  Pacific Ocean       20 30 N    121 00 E
Lyakhov Islands               Russia              73 45 N    138 00 E
Macao                         Macau               22 10 N    113 33 E
Macedonia                     The Former Yugoslav 41 50 N    22 00 E
                              Republic of
                              Macedonia
Macquarie Island              Australia           30 07 S    147 24 E
Madagasikara (local name for  Madagascar          20 00 S    47 00 E
Madagascar)
Maddalena, Isola              Italy               41 13 N    09 24 E
Madeira Islands               Portugal            32 40 N    16 45 W
Madras (see Chennai) (city)   India               13 04 N    80 16 E
Madrid (capital)              Spain               40 24 N    3 41 W
Magellan, Strait of           Atlantic Ocean      54 00 S    71 00 W
Maghreb (region)              Algeria, Libya,     30 00 N    5 00 E
                              Mauritania,
                              Morocco, Tunisia
Magreb (local name for        Morocco             32 00 N    5 00 W
Morocco)
Magyarorszag (local name for  Hungary             47 00 N    20 00 E
Hungary)
Mahe Island                   Seychelles          4 41 S     55 30 E
Maiz, Islas del (Corn         Nicaragua           12 15 N    83 00 W
Islands)
Majorca Island (Isla de       Spain               39 30 N    3 00 E
Mallorca)
Majuro (capital)              Marshall Islands    7 05 N     171 08 E
Makassar Strait               Pacific Ocean       2 00 S     117 30 E
Makedonija (local name for    The Former Yugoslav 41 50 N    22 00 E
Macedonia)                    Republic of
                              Macedonia
Malabo (capital)              Equatorial Guinea   3 45 N     8 47 E
Malacca, Strait of            Indian Ocean        2 30 N     101 20 E
Malagasy Republic             Madagascar          20 00 S    47 00 E
Malay Archipelago             Brunei, Indonesia,  2 30 N     120 00 E
                              Malaysia, Papua New
                              Guinea, Philippines
Malay Peninsula               Malaysia, Thailand  7 10 N     100 35 E
Male (capital)                Maldives            4 10 N     73 31 E
Mallorca (Majorca) (island)   Spain               39 30 N    3 00 E
Malmady (region)              Belgium             50 26 N    6 02 E
Malpelo, Isla de (island)     Colombia            4 00 N     90 30 W
Malta Channel                 Atlantic Ocean      56 44 N    26 53 E
Malvinas, Islas (island       Falkland Islands    51 45 S    59 00 W
group)                        (Islas Malvinas)
Mamoutzou (capital)           Mayotte             12 47 S    45 14 E
Managua (capital)             Nicaragua           12 09 N    86 17 W
Manama (capital)              Bahrain             26 13 N    50 35 E
Manchukuo (former state)      China               44 00 N    124 00 E
Manchuria (region)            China               44 00 N    124 00 E
Manila (capital)              Philippines         14 35 N    121 00 E
Manipa Strait                 Pacific Ocean       3 20 S     127 23 E
Mannar, Gulf of               Indian Ocean        8 30 N     79 00 E
Manua Islands                 American Samoa      14 13 S    169 35 W
Maputo (capital)              Mozambique          25 58 S    32 35 E
Marcus Island (Minami-tori-   Japan               24 16 N    154 00 E
shima)
Margarita, Isla (island)      Venezuela           10 00 N    64 00 W
Mariana Islands               Guam, Northern      16 00 N    145 30 E
                              Mariana Islands
Marie Byrd Land (region)      Antarctica          77 00 S    130 00 W
Marion Island                 South Africa        46 51 S    37 52 E
Marmara, Sea of               Atlantic Ocean      40 40 N    28 15 E
Marquesas Islands (Iles       French Polynesia    9 00 S     139 30 W
Marquises)
Martin Vaz, Ilhas (island     Brazil              20 30 S    28 51 W
group)
Mas a Tierra (Robinson Crusoe Chile               33 38 S    78 52 W
Island)
Mascarene Islands             Mauritius, Reunion  21 00 S    57 00 E
Maseru (capital)              Lesotho             29 28 S    27 30 E
Mata-Utu (capital)            Wallis and Futuna   13 57 S    171 56 W
Matsu (island)                Taiwan              26 13 N    119 56 E
Matthew Island                New Caledonia,      22 20 S    171 20 E
                              Vanuatu
Mauritanie (local name for    Mauritania          20 00 N    12 00 W
Mauritania)
Mazatlan (city)               Mexico              23 13 N    106 25 W
Mbabane (capital)             Swaziland           26 18 S    31 06 E
McDonald Islands              Heard Island and    53 06 S    73 30 E
                              McDonald Islands
Mecca (city)                  Saudi Arabia        21 27 N    39 49 E
Mediterranean Sea             Atlantic Ocean      36 00 N    15 00 E
Melilla (exclave)             Spain               35 19 N    2 58 W
Memel (region)                Lithuania           55 43 N    21 30 E
Mesopotamia (region)          Iraq                33 00 N    44 00 E
Messina, Strait of            Atlantic Ocean      38 15 N    15 35 E
Mexico (capital)              Mexico              19 24 N    99 09 W
Mexico, Gulf of               Atlantic Ocean      25 00 N    90 00 W
Middle Congo (former name for Republic of the     1 00 S     15 00 E
Republic of the Congo)        Congo
Milwaukee Deep (Puerto Rico   Atlantic Ocean      19 55 N    65 27 W
Trench)
Minami-tori-shima (Marcus     Japan               24 16 N    154 00 E
Island)
Mindanao (island)             Philippines         8 00 N     125 00 E
Mindanao Sea                  Pacific Ocean       9 15 N     124 30 E
Mindoro (island)              Philippines         12 50 N    121 05 E
Mindoro Strait                Pacific Ocean       12 20 N    120 40 E
Mingrelia (region)            Georgia             42 30 N    41 52 E
Minicoy Island                India               8 17 N     73 02 E
Minorca Island (Isla de       Spain               40 00 N    4 00 E
Menorca)
Minsk (capital)               Belarus             53 54 N    27 34 E
Misr (local name for Egypt)   Egypt               27 00 N    30 00 E
Mitla Pass                    Egypt               30 02 N    32 54 E
Mocambique (local name for    Mozambique          18 15 S    35 00 E
Mozambique)
Mogadishu (capital)           Somalia             2 04 N     45 22 E
Moldavia (region)             Moldova, Romania    47 00 N    29 00 E
Molucca Sea                   Pacific Ocean       2 00 N     127 00 E
Moluccas (Spice Islands)      Indonesia           2 00 S     28 00 E
Mombasa (city)                Kenya               4 03 S     39 40 E
Mona Passage                  Atlantic Ocean      18 30 N    67 45 W
Monaco (capital)              Monaco              43 44 N    7 25 E
Mongol Uls (local name for    Mongolia            46 00 N    105 00 E
Mongolia)
Monrovia (capital)            Liberia             6 18 N     10 47 W
Montenegro (political region) Yugoslavia          42 30 N    19 00 E
Monterrey (city)              Mexico              25 40 N    100 19 W
Montevideo (capital)          Uruguay             34 53 S    56 11 W
Montreal (city)               Canada              45 31 N    73 34 W
Moravia (region)              Czech Republic      49 30 N    17 00 E
Moravian Gate (pass)          Czech Republic      49 35 N    17 50 E
Moroni (capital)              Comoros             11 41 S    43 16 E
Mortlock Islands (Nomoi       Federated States of 5 30 N     153 40 E
Islands)                      Micronesia
Moscow (capital)              Russia              55 45 N    37 35 E
Mount Pinatubo (volcano)      Philippines         15 08 N    120 21 E
Mozambique Channel            Indian Ocean        19 00 S    41 00 E
Muritaniyah (local name for   Mauritania          20 00 N    12 00 W
Mauritania)
Musandam Peninsula            Oman, United Arab   26 18 N    56 24 E
                              Emirates
Muscat (capital)              Oman                23 37 N    58 35 E
Muscat and Oman (former name  Oman                21 00 N    57 00 E
for Oman)
Myanma, Myanmar               Burma               22 00 N    98 00 E
Nagorno-Karabakh (region)     Azerbaijan          40 00 N    46 40 E
Nairobi (capital)             Kenya               1 17 S     36 49 E
Namib (desert)                Namibia             24 00 S    15 00 E
Nampo-shoto (island group)    Japan               30 00 N    140 00 E
Nassau (capital)              The Bahamas         25 05 N    77 21 W
Natal (region)                South Africa        29 00 S    30 25 E
Natuna Besar Islands          Indonesia           3 30 N     102 30 E
Natuna Sea                    Pacific Ocean       3 30 N     108 00 E
Naxcivan (region)             Azerbaijan          39 20 N    45 20 E
Naxos (island)                Greece              37 05 N    25 30 E
N'Djamena (capital)           Chad                12 07 N    15 03 E
Nederland (local name for the Netherlands         52 30 N    5 45 E
Netherlands)
Nederlandse Antillen (local   Netherlands         12 15 N    68 45 W
name for the Netherlands      Antilles
Antilles)
Negev (region)                Israel              30 30 N    34 55 E
Negros (island)               Philippines         10 00 N    123 00 E
Nejd (region)                 Saudi Arabia        24 05 N    45 15 E
Netherlands East Indies       Indonesia           5 00 S     120 00 E
(former name for Indonesia)
Netherlands Guiana (former    Suriname            4 00 N     56 00 W
name for Suriname)
Nevis (island)                Saint Kitts and     17 09 N    62 35 W
                              Nevis
New Britain (island)          Papua New Guinea    6 00 S     150 00 E
New Delhi (capital)           India               28 36 N    77 12 E
New Guinea (island)           Indonesia, Papua    5 00 S     140 00 E
                              New Guinea
New Hebrides (island group)   Vanuatu             16 00 S    167 00 E
New Ireland (island)          Papua New Guinea    3 20 N     152 00 E
New Siberian Islands          Russia              75 00 N    142 00 E
New Territories (mainland     Hong Kong           22 24 N    114 10 E
region)
Newfoundland (island, with    Canada              52 00 N    56 00 W
mainland area, and a
province)
Niamey (capital)              Niger               13 31 N    2 07 E
Nicobar Islands               India               8 00 N     93 30 E
Nicosia (capital)             Cyprus              35 10 N    33 22 E
Nightingale Island            Saint Helena        37 25 S    12 30 W
Nihon (local name for Japan)  Japan               36 00 N    138 00 E
Nippon (local name for Japan) Japan               36 00 N    138 00 E
Nomoi Islands (Mortlock       Federated States of 5 30 N     153 40 E
Islands)                      Micronesia
Norge (local name for Norway) Norway              62 00 N    10 00 E
Norman Isles (Channel         Guernsey, Jersey    49 20 N    2 20 W
Islands)
North Atlantic Ocean          Atlantic Ocean      30 00 N    45 00 W
North Channel                 Atlantic Ocean      55 10 N    5 40 W
North Frisian Islands         Denmark, Germany    54 50 N    8 12 E
North Greenland Sea           Arctic Ocean        78 00 N    5 00 W
North Island                  New Zealand         39 00 S    176 00 E
North Korea                   North Korea         40 00 N    127 00 E
North Ossetia (region)        Russia              43 00 N    44 10 E
North Pacific Ocean           Pacific Ocean       30 00 N    165 00 W
North Sea                     Atlantic Ocean      56 00 N    4 00 E
North Vietnam (former name    Vietnam             23 00 N    106 00 E
for northern portion of
Vietnam)
North Yemen (Yemen Arab       Yemen               15 00 N    44 00 E
Republic)
Northeast Providence Channel  Atlantic Ocean      25 40 N    77 09 W
Northern Cyprus (region)      Cyprus              35 15 N    33 44 E
Northern Epirus (region)      Albania, Greece     40 00 N    20 30 E
Northern Grenadines           Saint Vincent and   12 45 N    61 15 W
(political region)            the Grenadines
Northern Ireland              United Kingdom      54 40 N    6 45 W
Northern Rhodesia (former     Zambia              15 00 S    30 00 E
name for Zambia)
Northwest Passages            Arctic Ocean        74 40 N    100 00 W
Northwest Territories         Canada              64 05 N    117 10 W
(region)
Norwegian Sea                 Atlantic Ocean      66 00 N    6 00 E
Nouakchott (capital)          Mauritania          18 06 N    15 57 W
Noumea (capital)              New Caledonia       22 16 S    166 27 E
Nouvelle-Caledonie (local     New Caledonia       21 30 S    165 30 E
name for New Caledonia)
Nouvelles Hebrides (former    Vanuatu             16 00 S    167 00 E
name for Vanuatu)
Novaya Zemlya (islands)       Russia              74 00 N    57 00 E
Nubia (region)                Egypt, Sudan        20 30 N    33 00 E
Nuku'alofa (capital)          Tonga               21 08 S    175 12 W
Nunavut (region)              Canada              72 00 N    90 00 W
Nuuk (Godthab) (capital)      Greenland           64 11 N    51 44 W
Nyasaland (former name for    Malawi              13 30 S    34 00 E
Malawi)
Nyassa (region)               Mozambique          13 30 S    37 00 E
Oahu (island)                 United States    21 30 N        158 00
                              (Hawaii)                       W
Ocean Island (Banaba)         Kiribati         0 52 S         169 35
                                                             E
Ocean Island (Kure Island)    United States    28 25 N        178 20
                                                             W
Oesterreich (local name for   Austria          47 20 N        13 20 E
Austria)
Ogaden (region)               Ethiopia,        7 00 N         46 00 E
                              Somalia
Oil Islands (Chagos           British Indian   6 00 S         71 30 E
Archipelago)                  Ocean Territory
Okhotsk, Sea of               Pacific Ocean    53 00 N        150 00
                                                             E
Okinawa (island group)        Japan            26 30 N        128 00
                                                             E
Oland (island)                Sweden           56 45 N        16 40 E
Oman, Gulf of                 Indian Ocean     24 30 N        58 30 E
Ombai Strait                  Pacific Ocean    8 30 S         125 00
                                                             E
Oran (city)                   Algeria          35 43 N        0 43 W
Orange River Colony (region;  South Africa     28 20 S        26 40 E
former name of Free State
Province of South Africa)
Oranjestad (capital)          Aruba            12 33 N        70 06 W
Oresund (The Sound) (strait)  Atlantic Ocean   55 50 N        12 40 E
Orkney Islands                United Kingdom   59 00 N        3 00 W
Oslo (capital)                Norway           59 55 N        10 45 E
Osumi Strait (Van Diemen      Pacific Ocean    31 00 N        131 00
Strait)                                                      E
Otranto, Strait of            Atlantic Ocean   40 00 N        19 00 E
Ottawa (capital)              Canada           45 20 N        73 58 W
Ouagadougou (capital)         Burkina Faso     12 22 N        1 31 W
Outer Hebrides (islands)      United Kingdom   57 45 N        7 00 W
Outer Mongolia (region)       Mongolia         46 00 N        105 00
                                                             E
Pacific Islands, Trust        Marshall         10 00 N        155 00
Territory of the              Islands,                       E
                              Federated States
                              of Micronesia,
                              Northern Mariana
                              Islands, Palau
Pagan (island)                Northern Mariana 18 08 N        145 47
                              Islands                        E
Pago Pago (capital)           American Samoa   14 16 S        170 42
                                                             W
Palawan (island)              Philippines      9 30 N         118 30
                                                             E
Palermo (city)                Italy            38 07 N        13 21 E
Palestine (region)            Israel, West     32 00 N        35 15 E
                              Bank
Palikir (capital)             Federated States 6 55 N         158 08
                              of Micronesia                  E
Palk Strait                   Indian Ocean     10 00 N        79 45 E
Pamirs (mountains)            China,           38 00 N        73 00 E
                              Tajikistan
Pampas (region)               Argentina        35 00 N        63 00 W
Panama (capital)              Panama           8 58 N         79 32 W
Panama Canal                  Panama           9 00 N         79 45 W
Panama, Gulf of               Pacific Ocean    8 00 N         79 30 W
Panay (island)                Philippines      11 15 N        122 30
                                                             E
Pantelleria, Isola di         Italy            36 47 N        12 00 E
(island)
Papeete (capital)             French Polynesia 17 32 S        149 34
                                                             W
Paramaribo (capital)          Suriname         5 50 N         55 10 W
Parece Vela (island)          Japan            20 20 N        136 00
                                                             E
Paris (capital)               France           48 52 N        2 20 E
Pascua, Isla de (Easter       Chile            27 07 S        109 22
Island)                                                      W
Pashtunistan (region)         Afghanistan,     32 00 N        69 00 E
                              Pakistan
Passion, Ile de la (island)   Clipperton       10 17 N        109 13
                              Island                         W
Patagonia (region)            Argentina        48 00 S        61 00 W
Peking (see Beijing)          China            39 56 N        116 24
                                                             E
Pelagian Islands (Isole       Italy            35 40 N        12 40 E
Pelagie)
Peleliu (Beliliou) (island)   Palau            7 01 N         134 15
                                                             E
Peloponnese (peninsula)       Greece           37 30 N        22 25 E
Pemba Island                  Tanzania         7 31 S         39 25 E
Penang Island                 Malaysia         5 23 N         100 15
                                                             E
Pentland Firth (channel)      Atlantic Ocean   58 44 N        3 13 W
Perim (island)                Yemen            12 39 N        43 25 E
Perouse Strait, La            Pacific Ocean    44 45 N        142 00
                                                             E
Persia (former name for Iran) Iran             32 00 N        53 00 E
Persian Gulf                  Indian Ocean     27 00 N        51 00 E
Pescadores (islands)          Taiwan           23 30 N        119 30
                                                             E
Peter I Island                Antarctica       68 48 S        90 35 W
Philip Island                 Norfolk Island   29 08 S        167 57
                                                             E
Philippine Sea                Pacific Ocean    20 00 N        134 00
                                                             E
Phnom Penh (capital)          Cambodia         11 33 N        104 55
                                                             E
Phoenix Islands               Kiribati         3 30 S         172 00
                                                             W
Pilipinas (local name for the Philippines      13 00 N        122 00
Philippines)                                                 E
Pinatubo, Mount (volcano)     Philippines      15 08 N        120 21
                                                             E
Pines, Isle of (former name   Cuba             21 40 N        82 50 W
for Isla de la Juventud)
(island)
Pleasant Island               Nauru            0 32 S         166 55
                                                             E
Plymouth (capital)            Montserrat       16 44 N        62 14 W
Polska (local name)           Poland           52 00 N        20 00 E
Polynesie Francaise (local    French Polynesia 15 00 S        140 00
name for French Polynesia)                                   W
Pomerania (region)            Germany, Poland  53 40 N        15 35 E
Ponape (Pohnpei) (island)     Federated States 6 55 N         158 15
                              of Micronesia                  E
Port Louis (capital)          Mauritius        20 10 S        57 30 E
Port Moresby (capital)        Papua New Guinea 9 30 S         147 10
                                                             E
Port-au-Prince (capital)      Haiti            18 32 N        72 20 W
Port-of-Spain (capital)       Trinidad and     10 39 N        61 31 W
                              Tobago
Porto-Novo (capital)          Benin            6 29 N         2 37 E
Portuguese East Africa        Mozambique       18 15 S        35 00 E
(former name for Mozambique)
Portuguese Guinea (former     Guinea-Bissau    12 00 N        15 00 W
name for Guinea-Bissau)
Portuguese Timor (former name Indonesia        9 00 S         126 00
for East Timor)                                              E
Port-Vila (capital)           Vanuatu          17 44 S        168 19
                                                             E
Poznan (city)                 Poland           52 25 N        16 55 E
Prague (capital)              Czech Republic   40 55 N        21 00 E
Praia (capital)               Cape Verde       14 55 N        23 31 W
Prathet Thai (local name for  Thailand         15 00 N        100 00
Thailand)                                                    E
Pretoria (capital)            South Africa     25 45 S        28 10 E
Prevlaka peninsula            Croatia          42 24 N        18 31 E
Pribilof Islands              United States    57 00 N        170 00
                                                             W
Prince Edward Island          Canada           46 20 N        63 20 W
Prince Edward Islands         South Africa     46 35 S        38 00 E
Prince Patrick Island         Canada           76 30 N        119 00
                                                             W
Principe (island)             Sao Tome and     1 38 N         7 25 E
                              Principe
Prussia (region)              Germany, Poland, 53 00 N        14 00 E
                              Russia
Pukapuka Atoll                Cook Islands     10 53 S        165 49
                                                             W
Punjab (region)               India, Pakistan  30 50 N        73 30 E
Puntland (region)             Somalia          8 21 N         49 08 E
P'yongyang (capital)          North Korea      39 01 N        125 45
                                                             E
Qazaqstan (local name for     Kazakhstan          48 00 N    68 00 E
Kazakhstan)
Qita Ghazzah (local name Gaza Gaza Strip          31 25 N    34 20 E
Strip)
Quebec (province)             Canada              52 00 N    72 00 W
Queen Charlotte Islands       Canada              53 00 N    132 00 W
Queen Elizabeth Islands       Canada              78 00 N    95 00 W
Queen Maud Land (claimed by   Antarctica          73 30 S    12 00 E
Norway)
Quemoy (island)               Taiwan              24 27 N    118 23 E
Quito (capital)               Ecuador             0 13 S     78 30 W
Rabat (capital)               Morocco             34 02 N    6 51 W
Ralik Chain (island group)    Marshall Islands    8 00 N     167 00 E
Rangoon (Yangon) (capital)    Burma               16 47 N    96 10 E
Rapa Nui (Easter Island)      Chile               27 07 S    109 22 W
Ratak Chain (island group)    Marshall Islands    9 00 N     171 00 E
Red Sea                       Indian Ocean        20 00 N    38 00 E
Redonda (island)              Antigua and Barbuda 16 55 N    62 19 W
Republica Dominicana (local   Dominican Republic  19 00 N    70 40 W
name for Dominican Republic)
Republique Centrafricain      Central African     7 00 N     21 00 E
(local name for Central       Republic
African Republic)
Republique Francaise (local   France              46 00 N    2 00 E
name for France)
Republique Gabonaise (local   Gabon               1 00 S     11 45 E
name for Gabon)
Republique Rwandaise (local   Rwanda              2 00 S     30 00 E
name for Rwanda)
Republique Togolaise (local   Togo                8 00 N     1 10 E
name for Togo)
Revillagigedo Island          United States       55 35 N    131 06 W
                              (Alaska)
Revillagigedo Islands         Mexico              19 00 N    112 45 W
Reykjavik (capital)           Iceland             19 00 N    111 30 W
Rhodes (island)               Greece              36 10 N    28 00 E
Rhodesia (region)             Zimbabwe            20 00 S    30 00 E
Rhodesia, Northern (former    Zambia              15 00 S    30 00 E
name for Zambia)
Rhodesia, Southern (former    Zimbabwe            20 00 S    30 00 E
name for Zimbabwe)
Riga (capital)                Latvia              56 57 N    24 06 E
Riga, Gulf of                 Atlantic Ocean      57 30 N    23 30 E
Rio de la Plata (gulf)        Atlantic Ocean      35 00 S    59 00 W
Rio de Oro (region)           Western Sahara      23 45 N    15 45 W
Rio Muni (mainland region)    Equatorial Guinea   1 30 N     10 00 E
Riyadh (capital)              Saudi Arabia        24 38 N    46 43 E
Road Town (capital)           British Virgin      18 27 N    64 37 W
                              Islands
Robinson Crusoe Island (Mas a Chile               33 38 S    78 52 W
Tierra)
Rocas, Atol das (island)      Brazil              3 51 S     33 49 W
Rockall (island)              United Kingdom      57 35 N    13 48 W
Rodrigues (island)            Mauritius           19 42 S    63 25 E
Rome (capital)                Italy               41 54 N    12 29 E
Roncador Cay (island)         Colombia            13 32 N    80 03 W
Roosevelt Island              Antarctica          79 30 S    162 00 W
Roseau (capital)              Dominica            15 18 N    61 24 W
Ross Dependency (claimed by   Antarctica          80 00 S    180 00 E
New Zealand)
Ross Island                   Antarctica          81 30 S    175 00 W
Ross Sea                      Antarctica,         76 00 S    175 00 W
                              Southern Ocean
Rossiya (local name for       Russia              60 00 N    100 00 E
Russia)
Rota (island)                 Northern Mariana    14 10 N    145 12 E
                              Islands
Rotuma (island)               Fiji                12 30 S    177 30 E
Ruanda (former name for       Rwanda              2 00 S     30 00 E
Rwanda)
Rub al Khali (desert)         Saudi Arabia        19 30 N    49 00 E
Rumelia (region)              Albania, Bulgaria,  42 00 N    22 30 E
                              The Former Yugoslav
                              Republic of
                              Macedonia
Ruthenia (region; former name Ukraine             48 22 N    23 32 E
for Carpatho-Ukraine)
Ryukyu Islands                Japan               26 30 N    128 00 E
Saar (region)                 Germany             49 25 N    7 00 E
Saaremaa (island)             Estonia             58 25 N    22 30 E
Saba (island)                 Netherlands         17 38 N    63 10 W
                              Antilles
Sabah (state)                 Malaysia            5 20 N     117 10 E
Sable Island                  Canada              43 55 N    59 50 W
Safety Islands (Iles du       French Guiana       5 20 N     52 37 W
Salut)
Sahara Occidental (former     Western Sahara      24 30 N    13 00 W
name for Western Sahara)
Sahel (region)                Burkina Faso, Chad, 15 00 N    8 00 W
                              The Gambia, Guinea-
                              Bissau, Mali,
                              Mauritania, Niger,
                              Senegal
Saigon (city; former name for Vietnam             10 45 N    106 40 E
Ho Chi Minh City)
Saint Barthelemy (Saint       Guadeloupe          17 55 N    62 52 W
Bart's) (island)
Saint Brandon (Cargados       Mauritius           16 25 S    59 38 E
Carajos Shoals)
Saint Christopher (island)    Saint Kitts and     17 20 N    62 45 W
                              Nevis
Saint Christopher and Nevis   Saint Kitts and     17 20 N    62 45 W
                              Nevis
Saint Eustatius (island)      Netherlands         17 30 N    63 00 W
                              Antilles
Saint George's (capital)      Grenada             12 03 N    61 45 W
Saint George's Channel        Atlantic Ocean      52 00 N    6 00 W
Saint Helens, Mount (volcano) United States       46 15 N    122 12 W
Saint Helier (capital)        Jersey              49 12 N    2 37 W
Saint John (city)             Canada (New         45 16 N    66 04 W
                              Brunswick)
Saint John's (capital)        Antigua and Barbuda 17 06 N    61 51 W
Saint Lawrence Island         United States       49 30 N    67 00 W
Saint Lawrence Seaway         Atlantic Ocean      49 15 N    67 00 W
Saint Lawrence, Gulf of       Atlantic Ocean      48 00 N    62 00 W
Saint Paul Island             Canada              47 12 N    60 09 W
Saint Paul Island             United States       57 11 N    170 16 W
Saint Paul Island (Ile Saint- French Southern and 38 43 S    77 29 E
Paul)                         Antarctic Lands
Saint Peter and Saint Paul    Brazil              0 23 N     29 23 W
Rocks (Penedos de Sao Pedro e
Sao Paulo)
Saint Peter Port (capital)    Guernsey            49 27 N    2 32 W
Saint Petersburg (city;       Russia              59 55 N    30 15 E
former capital)
Saint Thomas (island)         Virgin Islands      18 21 N    64 55 W
Saint Vincent Passage         Atlantic Ocean      13 30 N    61 00 W
Saint-Denis (capital)         Reunion             20 52 S    55 28 E
Saint-Martin (Sint Maarten)   Guadeloupe          18 04 N    63 04 W
(island)
Saint-Pierre (capital)        Saint Pierre and    46 46 N    56 11 W
                              Miquelon
Saipan (island)               Northern Mariana    15 12 N    145 45 E
                              Islands
Sak'art'velo (local name for  Georgia             42 00 N    43 30 E
Georgia)
Sakhalin Island (Ostrov       Russia              51 00 N    143 00 E
Sakhalin)
Sakishima Islands             Japan               24 30 N    124 00 E
Sala y Gomez, Isla (island)   Chile               26 28 S    105 00 W
Salisbury (city; former name  Zimbabwe            17 50 S    105 00 W
for Harare)
Salzburg (city)               Austria             47 48 N    13 02 E
Samar (island)                Philippines         12 00 N    125 00 E
Samaria (region)              West Bank           32 15 N    35 10 E
Samoa Islands                 American Samoa,     14 00 S    171 00 W
                              Samoa
Samos (island)                Greece              37 48 N    26 44 E
San Ambrosio, Isla (island)   Chile               26 21 S    79 52 W
San Andres y Providencia,     Colombia            13 00 N    81 30 W
Archipielago (island group)
San Bernardino Strait         Pacific Ocean       12 32 N    124 10 E
San Felix, Isla (island)      Chile               26 17 S    80 05 W
San Jose (capital)            Costa Rica          9 56 N     84 05 W
San Juan (capital)            Puerto Rico         18 28 N    66 07 W
San Marino (capital)          San Marino          43 56 N    12 25 E
San Salvador (capital)        El Salvador         13 42 N    89 12 W
Sanaa (capital)               Yemen               15 21 N    44 12 E
Sandzak (region)              Yugoslavia          43 05 N    19 45 E
Santa Cruz (city)             Bolivia             17 48 S    63 10 W
Santa Cruz Islands            Solomon Islands     11 00 S    166 15 E
Santa Sede (local name for    Holy See            41 54 N    12 27 E
the Holy See)
Santiago (capital)            Chile               33 27 S    70 40 W
Santo Antao (island)          Cape Verde          17 05 N    25 10 W
Santo Domingo (capital)       Dominican Republic  18 28 N    69 54 W
Sao Pedro e Sao Paulo,        Brazil              0 23 N     29 23 W
Penedos de (rocks)
Sao Tiago (island)            Cape Verde          15 05 N    23 40 W
Sao Tome (island)             Sao Tome and        0 12 N     6 39 E
                              Principe
Sapudi Strait                 Pacific Ocean       7 05 S     114 10 E
Sarajevo (capital)            Bosnia and          43 52 N    18 25 E
                              Herzegovina
Sarawak (state)               Malaysia            2 30 N     113 30 E
Sardinia (island)             Italy               40 00 N    9 00 E
Sargasso Sea (region)         Atlantic Ocean      30 00 N    55 00 W
Sark (island)                 Guernsey            49 26 N    2 21 W
Savage Island (former name    Niue                19 02 S    169 52 W
for Niue)
Savu Sea                      Pacific Ocean       9 30 S     122 00 E
Saxony (region)               Germany             51 00 N    13 00 E
Schleswig-Holstein (region)   Germany             54 31 N    9 33 E
Schweiz (local German name    Switzerland         47 00 N    8 00 E
for Switzerland)
Scopus, Mount                 Israel, West Bank   31 48 N    35 14 E
Scotia Sea                    Atlantic Ocean,     56 00 S    40 00 W
                              Southern Ocean
Scotland (region)             United Kingdom      57 00 N    4 00 W
Scott Island                  Antarctica          67 24 S    179 55 W
Senegambia (region; former    The Gambia, Senegal 13 50 N    15 25 W
name of confederation of
Senegal and The Gambia)
Senyavin Islands              Federated States of 6 55 N     158 00 E
                              Micronesia
Seoul (capital)               South Korea         37 34 N    127 00 E
Serbia and Montenegro         Yugoslavia          43 00 N    21 00 E
Serendib (former name for Sri Sri Lanka           7 00 N     81 00 E
Lanka)
Serrana Bank (shoal)          Colombia            14 25 N    80 16 W
Serranilla Bank (shoal)       Colombia            15 51 N    79 46 W
Settlement, The (capital)     Christmas Island    18 44 N    64 19 W
Severnaya Zemlya (Northland)  Russia              79 30 N    98 00 E
(island group)
Shaba (region)                Democratic Republic 8 00 S     27 00 E
                              of the Congo
Shag Island                   Heard Island and    53 00 S    72 30 E
                              McDonald Islands
Shag Rocks                    South Georgia and   53 33 S    42 02 W
                              the South Sandwich
                              Islands
Shetland Islands              United Kingdom      60 30 N    1 30 W
Shikoku (island)              Japan               33 45 N    133 30 E
Shikotan (island)             Russia (de facto)   43 47 N    146 45 E
Shqiperia (local name for     Albania             41 00 N    20 00 E
Albania)
Siam (former name for         Thailand            15 00 N    100 00 E
Thailand)
Siberia (region)              Russia              60 00 N    100 00 E
Sibutu Passage                Pacific Ocean       4 50 N     119 35 E
Sicily (island)               Italy               37 30 N    14 00 E
Sicily, Strait of             Atlantic Ocean      37 20 N    11 20 E
Sidra, Gulf of                Atlantic Ocean      31 30 N    18 00 E
Sikkim (state)                India               27 50 N    88 30 E
Silesia (region)              Czech Republic,     51 00 N    17 00 E
                              Germany, Poland
Sinai Peninsula               Egypt               29 30 N    34 00 E
Singapore (capital)           Singapore           1 17 N     103 51 E
Singapore Strait              Pacific Ocean       1 15 N     104 00 E
Sinkiang (Xinjiang) (city)    China               42 00 N    86 00 E
Sint Eustatius (island)       Netherlands         17 29 N    62 58 W
                              Antilles
Sint Maarten (Saint-Martin)   Netherlands         18 04 N    63 04 W
(island)                      Antilles
Sjaelland (island)            Denmark             55 30 N    12 00 E
Skagerrak (strait)            Atlantic Ocean      57 45 N    9 00 E
Skopje (capital)              The Former Yugoslav 41 59 N    21 26 E
                              Republic of
                              Macedonia
Slavonia (region)             Croatia             45 27 N    18 00 E
Slovenija (local name for     Slovenia            46 00 N    15 00 E
Slovenia)
Slovensko (local name for     Slovakia            48 40 N    19 30 E
Slovakia)
Smyrna (region; former name   Turkey              38 25 N    27 10 E
for Izmir)
Society Islands (Iles de la   French Polynesia    17 00 S    150 00 W
Societe)
Socotra (island)              Yemen               12 30 N    54 00 E
Sofia (capital)               Bulgaria            42 41 N    23 19 E
Solomon Islands, northern     Papua New Guinea    6 00 S     155 00 E
Solomon Islands, southern     Solomon Islands     8 00 S     159 00 E
Solomon Sea                   Pacific Ocean       8 00 S     153 00 E
Somaliland (region)           Somalia             9 30 N     46 00 E
Somers Islands (former name   Bermuda             32 20 N    64 45 W
for Bermuda)
Songkhla (city)               Thailand            7 12 N     100 36 E
Sound, The (Oresund) (strait) Atlantic Ocean      55 50 N    12 40 E
South Atlantic Ocean          Atlantic Ocean      30 00 S    15 00 W
South China Sea               Pacific Ocean       10 00 N    113 00 E
South Georgia (island)        South Georgia and   54 15 S    36 45 W
                              the South Sandwich
                              Islands
South Island                  New Zealand         43 00 S    171 00 E
South Korea                   South Korea         37 00 N    127 30 E
South Orkney Islands          Antarctica          61 00 S    45 00 W
South Ossetia (region)        Georgia             42 20 N    44 00 E
South Pacific Ocean           Pacific Ocean       30 00 S    130 00 W
South Sandwich Islands        South Georgia and   57 45 S    26 30 W
                              the South Sandwich
                              Islands
South Shetland Islands        Antarctica          62 00 S    59 00 W
South Tyrol (region)          Italy               46 30 N    10 30 E
South Vietnam (former name    Vietnam             12 00 N    108 00 E
for the southern portion of
Vietnam)
South Yemen (People's         Yemen               14 00 N    48 00 E
Democratic Republic of Yemen)
Southern Grenadines (island   Grenada             12 20 N    61 30 W
group)
Southern Rhodesia (former     Zimbabwe            20 00 S    30 00 E
name for Zimbabwe)
South-West Africa (former     Namibia             22 00 S    17 00 E
name for Namibia)
Soviet Union (former name of  Armenia,
a large Eurasian empire,      Azerbaijan,
roughly coequal with the      Belarus, Estonia,
former Russian Empire)        Georgia,
                              Kazakhstan,
                              Kyrgyzstan, Latvia,
                              Lithuania, Moldova,
                              Russia, Tajikistan,
                              Turkmenistan,
                              Ukraine, Uzbekistan
Spanish Guinea (former name   Equatorial Guinea   2 00 N     10 00 E
for Equatorial Guinea)
Spanish Morocco (former name  Morocco             32 00 N    7 00 W
for northern Morocco)
Spanish North Africa          Spain (Ceuta, Islas 35 15 N    4 00 W
(exclaves)                    Chafarinas,
                              Melilla, Penon de
                              Alhucemas, Penon de
                              Velez de la Gomera)
Spanish Sahara (former name)  Western Sahara      24 30 N    13 00 W
Spanish West Africa (former   Morocco, Western    25 00 N    13 00 W
name for Ifni and Spanish     Sahara
Sahara)
Spice Islands (Moluccas)      Indonesia           2 00 S     28 00 E
Spitsbergen (island)          Svalbard            78 00 N    20 00 E
Srbija-Crna Gora (local name  Yugoslavia          44 00 N    21 00 E
for Serbia and Montenegro)
St. John's (city)             Canada              47 34 N    52 43 W
                              (Newfoundland)
Stanley (capital)             Falkland Islands    51 42 S    57 41 W
                              (Islas Malvinas)
Stockholm (capital)           Sweden              59 20 N    18 03 E
Stuttgart (city)              Germany             48 46 N    9 11 E
Sucre (city)                  Bolivia             19 02 S    65 17 W
Suez Canal                    Egypt               29 55 N    32 33 E
Suez, Gulf of                 Indian Ocean        28 10 N    33 27 E
Suisse (local French name for Switzerland         47 00 N    8 00 E
Switzerland)
Sulawesi (Celebes) (island)   Indonesia           2 00 S     121 00 E
Sulawesi Sea                  Pacific Ocean       3 00 N     122 00 E
Sulu Archipelago (island      Philippines         6 00 N     121 00 E
group)
Sulu Sea                      Pacific Ocean       8 00 N     120 00 E
Sumatra (island)              Indonesia           0 00 N     102 00 E
Sumba (island)                Indonesia           10 00 S    120 00 E
Sumba Strait                  Pacific Ocean       9 10 S     120 00 E
Sumbawa (island)              Indonesia           8 30 S     118 00 E
Sunda Islands (Soenda Isles)  Indonesia, Malaysia 2 00 S     110 00 E
Sunda Strait                  Indian Ocean        6 00 S     105 45 E
Suomi (local name for         Finland             64 00 N    26 00 E
Finland)
Surigao Strait                Pacific Ocean       10 15 N    125 23 E
Surinam (former name for      Suriname            4 00 N     56 00 W
Suriname)
Suriyah (local name for       Syria               35 00 N    38 00 E
Syria)
Surtsey (volcanic island)     Iceland             63 17 N    20 40 W
Suva (capital)                Fiji                18 08 S    178 25 E
Sverdlovsk (Yekaterinburg)    Russia              56 50 N    60 39 E
(city)
Sverige (local name for       Sweden              62 00 N    15 00 E
Sweden)
Svizzera (local Italian name  Switzerland         47 00 N    8 00 E
for Switzerland)
Swains Island                 American Samoa      11 03 S    171 15 W
Swan Islands                  Honduras            17 25 S    83 56 W
Tadzhikistan (former name for Tadjikistan         39 00 N    71 00 E
Tadjikistan)
Tahiti (island)               French Polynesia    17 37 S    149 27 W
Taipei (capital)              Taiwan              25 03 N    121 30 E
Taiwan Strait                 Pacific Ocean       24 00 N    119 00 E
Tallinn (capital)             Estonia             59 25 N    24 45 E
Tanganyika (former name for   Tanzania            6 00 S     35 00 E
the mainland portion of
Tanzania)
Tangier (city)                Morocco             35 48 N    5 45 W
Tannu-Tuva (region)           Russia              51 25 N    94 45 E
Tarawa (island)               Kiribati            1 25 N     173 00 E
Tartary, Gulf of              Pacific Ocean       50 00 N    141 00 E
Tashkent (capital)            Uzbekistan          41 20 N    69 18 E
Tasman Sea                    Pacific Ocean       4 30 S     168 00 E
Tasmania (island)             Australia           43 00 S    147 00 E
Tatar Strait                  Pacific Ocean       50 00 N    141 00 E
Taymyr Peninsula (Poluostrov  Russia              76 00 N    104 00 E
Taymyr)
T'bilisi (capital)            Georgia             41 43 N    44 49 E
Tchad (local name for Chad)   Chad                15 00 N    19 00 E
Tegucigalpa (capital)         Honduras            14 06 N    87 13 W
Tehran (capital)              Iran                35 40 N    51 26 E
Tel Aviv (capital, de facto)  Israel              32 05 N    34 48 E
Teluk Bone (gulf)             Pacific Ocean       4 00 S     120 45 E
Teluk Tomini (gulf)           Pacific Ocean       0 30 S     121 00 E
Terre Adelie (Adelie Land)    Antarctica          66 30 S    139 00 E
(claimed by France)
Terres Australes et           French Southern and 43 00 S    67 00 E
Antarctiques Francaises       Antarctic Lands
(local name for the French
Southern and Antarctic Lands)
Thailand, Gulf of             Pacific Ocean       10 00 N    101 00 E
Thimphu (capital)             Bhutan              27 28 N    89 39 E
Thuringia (region)            Germany             51 00 N    11 00 E
Thurston Island               Antarctica          72 20 S    99 00 W
Tiberias, Lake                Israel              32 48 N    35 35 E
Tibet (Xizang) (province)     China               32 00 N    90 00 E
Tibilisi (see T'bilisi)       Georgia             41 43 N    44 49 E
Tien Shan (mountains)         China, Kyrgyzstan   42 00 N    80 00 E
Tierra del Fuego (island,     Argentina, Chile    54 00 S    69 00 W
island group)
Timor (island)                Indonesia           9 00 S     125 00 E
Timor Leste (former name for  East Timor          9 00 N     126 00 E
East Timor)
Timor Sea                     Pacific Ocean       11 00 S    128 00 E
Tinian (island)               Northern Mariana    15 00 N    145 38 E
                              Islands
Tiran, Strait of              Indian Ocean        28 00 N    34 27 E
Tirana (capital)              Albania             41 20 N    19 50 E
Tirane (see Tirana)           Albania             41 20 N    19 50 E
Tirol (region)                Austria, Italy      47 00 N    11 00 E
Tobago (island)               Trinidad and Tobago 11 15 N    60 40 W
Tokyo (capital)               Japan               35 42 N    139 46 E
Tonkin, Gulf of               Pacific Ocean       20 00 N    108 00 E
Torres Strait                 Pacific Ocean       10 25 S    142 10 E
Torshavn (capital)            Faroe Islands       62 01 N    6 46 W
Toshkent (see Tashkent)       Uzbekistan          41 20 N    69 18 E
Transcarpathia (region;       Ukraine             48 22 N    23 32 E
alternate name for Carpatho-
Ukraine)
Transjordan (former name for  Jordan              31 00 N    36 00 E
Jordan)
Transkei (enclave)            South Africa        32 15 S    28 15 E
Transvaal (region; former     South Africa        25 10 S    29 25 E
name for northeastern South
Africa)
Transylvania (region)         Romania             46 30 N    24 00 E
Trindade, Ilha de (island)    Brazil              20 31 S    29 20 W
Trinidad (island)             Trinidad and Tobago 10 22 N    61 15 W
Tripoli (capital)             Libya               32 54 N    13 11 E
Tripoli (city)                Lebanon             34 26 N    35 51 E
Tripolitania (region)         Libya               31 00 N    14 00 E
Tristan da Cunha Group        Saint Helena        37 04 S    12 19 W
(island group)
Trobriand Islands             Papua New Guinea    8 38 S     151 04 E
Trucial Coast (former name    United Arab         24 00 N    54 00 E
for the United Arab Emirates) Emirates
Trucial Oman (former name for United Arab         24 00 N    54 00 E
the United Arab Emirates)     Emirates
Trucial States (former name   United Arab         24 00 N    54 00 E
for the United Arab Emirates) Emirates
Truk Islands (former name for Federated States of 7 25 N     151 47 E
the Chuuk Islands)            Micronesia
Tsugaru Strait                Pacific Ocean       41 35 N    141 00 E
Tuamotu Islands (Iles         French Polynesia    19 00 S    142 00 W
Tuamotu)
Tubuai Islands (Iles Tubuai)  French Polynesia    23 00 S    150 00 W
Tunb al Kubra (island)        Iran                26 14 N    55 19 E
Tunb as Sughra (island)       Iran                26 14 N    55 09 E
Tunis (capital)               Tunisia             36 48 N    10 11 E
Turin (city)                  Italy               45 04 N    7 40 E
Turkish Straits               Atlantic Ocean      40 40 N    28 00 E
Turkiye (local name for       Turkey              39 00 N    35 00 E
Turkey)
Turkmenia (former name for    Turkmenistan        40 00 N    60 00 E
Turkmenistan)
Turkmeniya (former name for   Turkmenistan        40 00 N    60 00 E
Turkmenistan)
Turks Island Passage          Atlantic Ocean      21 40 N    71 00 W
Tuscany (region)              Italy               43 25 N    11 00 E
Tutuila (island)              American Samoa      14 18 S    170 42 W
Tyrol, South (region)         Italy               46 30 N    10 30 E
Tyrrhenian Sea                Atlantic Ocean      40 00 N    12 00 E
Ubangi-Shari (former name for Central African  6 38 N         20 33 E
the Central African Republic  Republic
Ukrayina (local name for      Ukraine          49 00 N        32 00 E
Ukraine)
Ulaanbaatar (capital)         Mongolia         47 55 N        106 53
                                                             E
Ullung-do (island)            South Korea      37 29 N        130 52
                                                             E
Ulster (region)               Ireland, United  54 35 N        7 00 W
                              Kingdom
Uman (local name for Oman)    Oman             21 00 N        57 00 E
Unimak Pass (strait)          Pacific Ocean    54 20 N        164 50
                                                             W
Union of Soviet Socialist     Armenia,
Republics (USSR) (former name Azerbaijan,
of a large Eurasian empire,   Belarus,
roughly coequal with the      Estonia,
former Russian Empire)        Georgia,
                              Kazakhstan,
                              Kyrgyzstan,
                              Latvia,
                              Lithuania,
                              Moldova, Russia,
                              Tajikistan,
                              Turkmenistan,
                              Ukraine,
                              Uzbekistan
United Arab Republic (UAR)    Egypt, Syria
(former name for a federation
between Egypt and Syria)
Upper Volta (former name for  Burkina Faso     13 00 N        2 00 W
Burkina Faso)
Ural Mountains                Kazakhstan,      60 00 N        60 00 E
                              Russia
Urdunn (local name for        Jordan           31 00 N        36 00 E
Jordan)
Urundi (former name for       Burundi          3 30 S         30 00 E
Burundi)
Ussuri River                  China, Russia    48 28 N        135 02
                                                             E
Vaduz (capital)               Liechtenstein       47 09 N    9 31 E
Vakhan (Wakhan Corridor)      Afghanistan         37 00 N    73 00 E
Valletta (capital)            Malta               35 54 N    14 31 E
Valley, The (capital)         Anguilla            18 13 N    63 04 W
Van Diemen Strait (Osumi      Pacific Ocean       31 00 N    131 00 E
Strait)
Vancouver Island              Canada              49 45 N    126 00 W
Vatican City (capital)        Holy See            41 54 N    12 27 E
Velez de la Gomera, Penon de  Spain               35 11 N    4 18 W
(island)
Venda (enclave)               South Africa        23 00 S    31 00 E
Verde Island Passage          Pacific Ocean       13 34 N    120 51 E
Victoria (capital)            Seychelles          4 38 S     55 27 E
Victoria (city; former name   Hong Kong           22 17 N    114 09 E
of seaport city in Hong Kong
colony)
Victoria (island)             Canada              71 00 N    110 00 W
Victoria Land (region)        Antarctica          72 00 S    155 00 E
Vienna (capital)              Austria             48 12 N    16 22 E
Vientiane (capital)           Laos                17 58 N    102 36 E
Vilnius (capital)             Lithuania           54 41 N    25 19 E
Viti Levu (island)            Fiji                18 00 S    178 00 E
Vladivostok (city)            Russia              43 10 N    131 56 E
Vojvodina (region)            Yugoslavia          45 35 N    20 00 E
Volcano Islands               Japan               25 00 N    141 00 E
Vostok Island                 Kiribati            10 06 S    152 23 W
Vrangelya, Ostrov (Wrangel    Russia              71 14 N    179 36 W
Island)
Wake Atoll                    Wake Island         19 17 N    166 36 E
Wakhan Corridor (see Vakhan)  Afghanistan         37 00 N    73 00 E
Walachia (region)             Romania             44 45 N    26 05 E
Wales (region)                United Kingdom      52 30 N    3 30 W
Wallis Islands                Wallis and Futuna   13 17 S    176 10 W
Walvis Bay (former exclave)   Namibia             22 59 S    14 31 E
(city)
Warsaw (capital)              Poland              52 15 N    21 00 E
Washington, DC (capital)      United States       38 53 N    77 02 W
Weddell Sea                   Southern Ocean      72 00 S    45 00 W
Wellington (capital)          New Zealand         41 28 S    174 51 E
West Frisian Islands          Netherlands         53 26 N    5 30 E
West Germany (Federal         Germany             53 22 N    5 20 E
Republic of Germany) (former
name for western portion of
Germany)
West Island (capital)         Cocos (Keeling)     12 10 S    96 55 E
                              Islands
West Korea Strait (Western    Pacific Ocean       34 40 N    129 00 E
Channel)
West Pakistan (former name    Pakistan            30 00 N    70 00 E
for western portion of
Pakistan)
West Siberian Plain           Russia              60 00 N    75 00 E
Western Channel (West Korea   Pacific Ocean       34 40 N    129 00 E
Strait)
Western Samoa (former name    Samoa               13 35 S    172 20 W
for Samoa)
Wetar Strait                  Pacific Ocean       8 20 S     126 30 E
White Sea                     Arctic Ocean        65 30 N    38 00 E
Wilkes Land (region)          Antarctica          71 00 S    120 00 E
Willemstad (capital)          Netherlands         12 06 N    68 56 W
                              Antilles
Windhoek (capital)            Namibia             22 34 S    17 06 E
Windward Passage              Atlantic Ocean      20 00 N    73 50 W
Wrangel Island (Ostrov        Russia              71 14 N    179 36 W
Vrangelya)
Xianggang (local name for     Hong Kong           22 15 N    114 10 E
Hong Kong)
Y'israel (local name for      Israel              31 30 N    34 45 E
Israel)
Yaitopya (local name for      Ethiopia            8 00 N     38 00 E
Ethiopia)
Yalu River                    China, North Korea  39 55 N    124 20 E
Yamoussoukro (capital)        Cote d'Ivoire       6 49 N     5 17 W
Yangon (see Rangoon)          Burma               16 47 N    96 10 E
Yaounde (capital)             Cameroon            3 52 N     11 31 E
Yap Islands                   Federated States of 9 30 N     138 00 E
                              Micronesia
Yaren (governmental center)   Nauru               0 32 S     166 55 E
Yekaterinburg (city; former   Russia              56 50 N    60 39 E
name for Sverdlovsk)
Yellow Sea                    Pacific Ocean       36 00 N    123 00 E
Yemen (Aden) (People's        Yemen               14 00 N    46 00 E
Democratic Republic of Yemen)
(former name for southern
portion of Yemen)
Yemen (Sanaa) (Yemen Arab     Yemen               15 00 N    44 00 E
Republic) (former name for
northern portion of Yemen)
Yemen Arab Republic (former   Yemen               15 00 N    44 00 E
name for northern portion of
Yemen)
Yemen, North (Yemen Arab      Yemen               15 00 N    44 00 E
Republic) (former name for
northern portion of Yemen)
Yemen, People's Democratic    Yemen               14 00 N    46 00 E
Republic of (former name for
southern portion of Yemen)
Yemen, South (People's        Yemen               14 00 N    46 00 E
Democratic Republic of Yemen)
(former name for southern
portion of Yemen)
Yerevan (capital)             Armenia             40 11 N    44 30 E
Youth, Isle of (Isla de la    Cuba                21 40 N    82 50 W
Juventud)
Yucatan Channel               Atlantic Ocean      21 45 N    85 45 W
Yucatan Peninsula             Mexico              19 30 N    89 00 W
Yugoslavia, Socialist Federal Bosnia and          43 00 N    19 00 E
Republic                      Herzegovina,
                              Croatia, The Former
                              Yugoslav Republic
                              of Macedonia,
                              Serbia and
                              Montenegro (now
                              Yugoslavia),
                              Slovenia
Zagreb (capital)              Croatia             45 48 N    15 58 E
Zaire (former name for the    Democratic Republic 15 00 S    30 00 E
Democratic Republic of the    of the Congo
Congo)
Zakhalinskiy Zaliv (bay)      Pacific Ocean       54 00 N    142 00 E
Zaliv Shelikhova (bay)        Pacific Ocean       60 00 N    157 30 E
Zambezia (region)             Mozambique          16 00 S    37 00 E
Zanzibar (island)             Tanzania            6 10 S     39 11 E
Zhong Guo (local name for     China               35 00 N    105 00 E
China)
Zhonghua (local name for      China               35 00 N    105 00 E
China)
Zion, Mount (locale in        Israel, West Bank   31 46 N    35 14 E
Jerusalem)
Zurich (city)                 Switzerland         47 23 N    8 32 E


=====================================================================







End of the Tamil Bookshelf EBook of The 2001 CIA World Factbook, by 
United States.  Central Intelligence Agency.

*** END OF THIS Tamil Bookshelf EBOOK THE 2001 CIA WORLD FACTBOOK ***

***** This file should be named 27638.txt or 27638.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.tamilbookshelf.in/2/7/6/3/27638/

Produced by Al Haines

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Tamil Bookshelf-tm electronic works to
protect the Tamil Bookshelf-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL Tamil Bookshelf LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Tamil Bookshelf-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://tamilbookshelf.in/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Tamil Bookshelf-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Tamil Bookshelf-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Tamil Bookshelf-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Tamil Bookshelf" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Tamil Bookshelf-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Tamil Bookshelf-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Tamil Bookshelf Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Tamil Bookshelf
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Tamil Bookshelf-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Tamil Bookshelf-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Tamil Bookshelf:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Tamil Bookshelf-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Tamil Bookshelf-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Tamil Bookshelf" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:



1.E.2.  If an individual Tamil Bookshelf-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Tamil Bookshelf" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Tamil Bookshelf-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Tamil Bookshelf-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Tamil Bookshelf-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Tamil Bookshelf-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Tamil Bookshelf-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Tamil Bookshelf-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Tamil Bookshelf-tm web site (www.tamilbookshelf.in),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Tamil Bookshelf-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Tamil Bookshelf-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Tamil Bookshelf-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Tamil Bookshelf-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Tamil Bookshelf-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Tamil Bookshelf Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Tamil Bookshelf Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Tamil Bookshelf Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Tamil Bookshelf-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Tamil Bookshelf-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Tamil Bookshelf-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Tamil Bookshelf-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Tamil Bookshelf Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Tamil Bookshelf-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Tamil Bookshelf volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Tamil Bookshelf-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Tamil Bookshelf-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Tamil Bookshelf-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Tamil Bookshelf-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Tamil Bookshelf-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Tamil Bookshelf-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Tamil Bookshelf-tm

Tamil Bookshelf-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, is critical to reaching Tamil Bookshelf-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Tamil Bookshelf-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Tamil Bookshelf-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Tamil Bookshelf Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Tamil Bookshelf Literary Archive
Foundation

The Tamil Bookshelf Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Tamil Bookshelf
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Tamil Bookshelf
Literary Archive Foundation

Tamil Bookshelf-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Tamil Bookshelf Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including including checks, online payments and credit card
donations.  To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Tamil Bookshelf-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Tamil Bookshelf-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Tamil Bookshelf-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.tamilbookshelf.in

This Web site includes information about Tamil Bookshelf-tm,
including how to make donations to the Tamil Bookshelf Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
